DRN-3781478
The complaint
Mr S and the Estate of Mrs D complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) didnt do enough to tell them their home insurance policy had been cancelled.
What happened
Mr S took out a new policy with Lloyds online. Several months later, Mr S and Mrs D had a 
fire in their home. When they contacted Lloyds, they were told they didnt have insurance in 
place, so they couldnt make a claim.
So, Mr S complained. When Lloyds replied, it said when Mr S set up the policy, he had 
entered the wrong sort code for his bank account. This meant the bank had been unable to 
set up the direct debit. Lloyds said it had written to Mr S to tell him this and it had also sent a 
letter that said the policy had been cancelled.
When Mr S complained to this service, out investigator upheld the complaint. He said Lloyds 
should have done more to advise Mr S that the policy had been cancelled. He said Lloyds 
should reinstate the policy and assess the claim.
As Lloyds didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Lloyds wrote to Mr S and Mrs D twice to tell them there was an issue with the policy. The 
first time was less than a week after the policy start date and said Lloyds had been unable to 
take the payment. A couple of weeks after that, Lloyds wrote again to say the policy had 
been cancelled. The letters were sent to the correct address. Im aware Mr S said he didnt 
receive either of the letters. However, once the letters entered the postal system, Lloyds 
wasnt responsible for their delivery.
Ive also looked at why Lloyds was unable to take the payment. Mr S entered the bank 
account details online. It was only when Lloyds sent the details to the bank to set up the 
direct debit that a problem was identified. This was that Mr S had included an incorrect digit 
in the sort code, which meant the bank details didnt match the account. In these 
circumstances, I would expect an insurer to contact the policyholder to explain there had 
been a problem with taking payment. Lloyds did this by sending the letters.
Im also aware that Mr S and Mrs D had home emergency cover under the policy, which was 
with a different insurer. A few months later, the home emergency provider contacted Mr S to 
say the home emergency policy had been cancelled because of the payment issue. I 
understand this was all done by phone and that Mr S provided his payment details to keep 
the policy in place.
Im aware that Lloyds had other contact details for Mr S, such as an email address and 
phone number. Like the home emergency provider, Lloyds could have phoned. However, it 
wasnt required to do so and I havent seen anything that said this was what Lloyds would do 
if there was an issue with the policy. What Lloyds needed to do was take reasonable steps 
to inform Mr S and Mrs D there was an issue so they could take action if they wanted to do 
so. Lloyds took reasonable steps to do this by sending the letters and it wasnt required to 
keep making contact via all possible routes. As the letters didnt receive a response, it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to cancel the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to 
require Lloyds to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 November 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Lloyds agreed with my decision.
Mr S said my decision was unfair and that it didnt make sense:
Sending letters didnt guarantee they would be received if they werent sent by special 
delivery.
He had entered his details and Lloyds should have validated straight away whether they 
were correct and let him know at the point of the policy creation. Nowadays every system 
could validate bank details.
Lloyds had his phone number and email address. Even though it wasnt written in their 
policy, Lloyds should treat their customers with more humanity and a phone call or email 
wouldnt do any harm.
Lloyds should revisit its policies to at least check a letter had been received.
He was a long-term customer of the bank the policy was taken out with. He had home 
insurance with them before. He moved house and migrated the policy to his new home.
Cancelling the policy put the mortgage in breach of the terms and conditions.
As a loyal customer, he regretted that Lloyds couldnt be indulgent and not only reinstate 
the policy but also consider revisiting their process. Lloyds could have done so much 
more to prevent this situation.
Mr S questioned what more he could have done and that given he received a welcome 
email telling him he was covered, he questioned why Lloyds couldnt have used a 
second channel to contact him.
Mr S also sent further evidence including a bank statement and mortgage statement and the 
welcome email from Lloyds. He also said:
He was signed up for paperless banking.
The home emergency provider contacted him by phone so there was no reason why 
Lloyds couldnt have as well.
He also repeated some of the points about being a loyal customer, that only post sent 
special delivery could be guaranteed to arrive and Lloyds should have validated his bank 
details when he took out the policy.
Customers should be treated fairly and, from his perspective, Mr S had signed up to a 
policy with his bank.
Because of how Lloyds dealt with this, Mr S didnt know the policy wasnt in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered all the points Mr S has made, even if I 
dont comment on them here. I can understand his strongly held views about what 
happened. Im unable to tell a business how it should operate and I cant tell it how to deal 
with customers in future. My role is to look at how a business acted in terms of the individual 
complaint. In this instance, that is about Lloyds. Im aware that Mr S had a relationship with a 
specific bank and that he had certain expectations about how it would operate, but that isnt 
down to the actions of Lloyds. 
Lloyds wasnt required to phone or email Mr S. Im aware the home emergency provider 
phoned him, but that was a different company. Ive also looked at the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). This describes the ways in 
which a business must communicate with a customer. This said communicating by paper 
was an acceptable means. It also doesnt require a business to communicate by multiple 
means. I can understand that Mr S might have wanted Lloyds to email or phone him, but I 
havent seen anything that persuades me it did anything wrong by sending him a letter. It 
also wasnt required to send the letters by special delivery.
Im not able to tell Lloyds what technology it should or shouldnt use and Im unable to 
comment on the type of technology that exists when someone sets up a new payee. Lloyds 
checked the bank details by sending them to the bank to set-up the payment. When it was 
told the details werent valid, it wrote to Mr S twice about this. Although Im aware this will 
disappoint Mr S, I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Lloyds to cancel the policy 
and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman