DRN-2443143
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service hes received from House Independent Financial 
Advisers Ltd (House IFA) in relation to the management and provision of advice concerning 
his investments in a personal pension. Hes complained that no advice has been provided 
since 2014 and the value of his pension has decreased significantly in that time. Hes also 
particularly unhappy with what he feels was the lack of advice to switch from the CF 
Woodford Equity Income Fund before it was frozen.
What happened
Mr B initially invested just over £23,000 in December 2014 into a personal pension. At this 
point in time the business his adviser was attached to was different to House IFA. In early 
2015, Mr Bs pension was moved onto a platform provided by a business I will refer to as 
Business A. A further two investments of around £30,000 were made shortly after the move 
to Business As platform. In total his portfolio consisted of 15% of the funds being invested in 
the Standard Life UK Equity Unconstrained Platform 1 Accumulation fund and the remaining 
85% of the funds being invested in the CF Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF).
The servicing of the pension was later transferred to a new firm, which at that point acted as 
the principal for House IFA. As of August 2017, Mr Bs pension was worth just under 
£100,000.
In February 2018 House IFA became directly authorised by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in their own right, effective from 2 February 2018. And at 
this point House IFA began the process of transferring servicing and novating clients away 
from its previous principal. House IFA moved all clients on Business As platform under its 
advisory stewardship in one tranche. The date of this transfer was 20 February 2018. House 
IFA has said the main reason for this was the need to take action for clients and provide a 
better service. House IFA explained it saw all of its clients to complete the reviews, but three 
couldnt be seen so the transfer wasnt completed for them. House IFA stopped the ongoing 
fees on one account and refunded the fees on another. House IFA has stated Mr B couldnt 
be contacted and even though his fees should still have been stopped, they werent.
 
In June 2019 Mr B contacted House IFA about concerns over his investment in the WEIF. By 
then the value of his pension had fallen by around £30,000. Mr B said the issues involving 
the fund had caused a 50% drop in the value of his pension. House IFA asked him what he 
wanted them to do, but it apparently didnt receive a response. Mr B then raised this 
complaint and contacted this Service to ask us to investigate.
House IFA responded to the complaint on 27 July 2019 and accepted that it couldn't 
demonstrate it had done enough to contact Mr B about his pension since it became directly 
authorised. Because of this it said it should have stopped charging him the ongoing adviser 
fee, so to resolve the matter it refunded the fees collected from Mr Bs pension and added 
5% to recognise a potential loss of investment return on these funds. It also offered to work 
with him on a no-fee basis with a view to restoring his pension to a positive position. 
However, House IFA also explained they couldnt be held accountable for his investment 
losses if they couldnt contact him to discuss and agree a switch of investments.
Mr B didnt accept the offer as he said he felt the compensation wasnt fully representative of 
what had occurred and the effects on him. He also added that the monies invested in the 
WEIF fund could no longer be accessed as the fund was now frozen with no indication, at 
that point in time, of when those monies will become accessible. He explained his pension is 
now in a worse financial position than it was originally, and he feels this was unethical. 
At that point in time following the suspension of the WEIF his pension was worth around 
£60,000 and between £3,000 and £4,000 remained frozen in the WEIF.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He 
was of the view that House IFA hadnt fairly compensated Mr B for the shortcomings in the 
service it had provided to him. He didnt think House IFA had made all reasonable attempts 
to contact Mr B and therefore hadnt provided him with the service he was paying for. He 
accepted House IFA had refunded some of the fees but felt it hadnt refunded all that were 
due. So he suggested a further amount in fees be refunded along with the 5% interest 
House IFA had chosen to apply to the initial refund.
He was also persuaded that Mr B would have moved out of the WEIF had House IFA 
contacted him as it should have done in 2018. So he felt House IFA should compensate 
Mr B for the loss suffered as a result of not moving from the WEIF.
He also suggested that because Mr Bs monies were frozen in WEIF due to its suspension, 
Mr B may not eventually receive the value placed on his investment in the fund at the end 
date, and in the meantime couldnt sell his investment and invest the proceeds elsewhere. 
So he set out how House IFA should address this, as below:
House IFA should use the value placed on Mr Bs remaining investment in the WEIF 
at the end date when determining the total actual value of his investment.
Pay Mr B a return that would likely be generated by the size of this investment in a 
two-year period. They should calculate this by using the average annual return from 
our appropriate benchmark over the past 20 years. House IFA may appropriately 
deduct any proceeds Mr B received from the liquidation since the end date and prior 
to the date of their calculation
The investigator also felt the effect of this error on the part of House IFA should be 
recognised with a payment of £250.
House IFA didnt agree with the assessment. It responded, this time in conjunction with its 
Professional Indemnity (PI) insurer. It explained it felt it had documentary evidence to show it 
had tried to contact Mr B and that he didnt do anything to mitigate his own loss. It explained 
Mr B hadnt updated House IFA with new contact details for himself and then went to Europe 
for eight months. House IFA also felt there was nothing to suggest that Mr B would have 
moved his funds from WEIF even if it had contacted him as he was a speculative investor 
and in its view there wasnt a suitable portfolio containing a similar level of risk. However 
regardless of this it offered £11,000 in full and financial settlement as a way to resolve the 
matter amicably.
Mr B didnt accept the offer. And the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his initial 
outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld.
Firstly, its important to make clear that while Mr B is unhappy with matters that took place 
before House IFA became a directly authorised firm, House IFA can only be held 
responsible for what happened after this point, 2 February 2018. Anything Mr B is unhappy 
with that took place before this time needs to be addressed to House IFAs principal.
From the response we have received from House IFA it isnt disputed that Mr B wasnt 
contacted by House IFA as he should have been after it had become directly authorised.
But what I need to consider is whether failure to contact him was the sole responsibility of 
House IFA and if so what do I think, based on the evidence in front of me, would Mr B have 
done with his pension funds had he been contacted and what the effect is of House IFAs 
failure to contact him.
House IFA feels that it wasnt solely its responsibility to contact Mr B and that if he was so 
unhappy with his fund performance, he should have contacted them himself. It also feels it 
made all reasonable attempts to contact him. However, I cant ignore that when House IFA 
first addressed the complaint before involving the PI insurers it categorically accepted that it 
couldnt demonstrate it had robustly made all attempts to contact Mr B. In fact in its first 
answer to the complaint House IFA initially stated it:
cannot demonstrate attempts to contact him so of course we must uphold the complaint and 
repay the fees. This should have happened at the time of not being able to contact so we 
have also added 5% to this refund to allow for loss of return on this fee deduction.
This is very persuasive in my view so to receive a response with a slightly different tone 
when the PI insurers became involved is a surprise for me to see. Nevertheless, taking 
account of the arguments in both responses I am not satisfied that House IFA did all it could 
to contact Mr B. 
The records House IFA provided to show how it attempted to contact Mr B state the 
following:
5/4  Called to find work number  cannot fund, ask in gym if anyone seen him.
10/4/18  Speak [anonymised name] and [anonymised name], not seen [my 
amendment].
10/4/18  Find [anonymised name] no, not correct [my amendment].
22/5  Ask [anonymised name] to drop note at his address [my amendment].
09/07/2018  Check account with Business A, no idea on where [Mr B] is  produce 
report [my amendment].
1/11/2018  Review due, write.
While I can see there was intent to contact Mr B I am not satisfied from this record (which is 
all I have been provided with) that House IFA made all reasonable efforts to contact him. 
Indeed theres no record here of an attempted call, or an email or even something to indicate 
House IFA wrote or intended to write to Mr B directly. While its apparent he wasnt 
contactable through more informal methods, in my view House IFA still had an obligation to 
attempt to contact him through more formal channels.
I appreciate House IFA has said that Mr B had moved address and employer and had failed to provide updated contact details. But in my view its only reasonable to say a business 
cant be at fault for failing to contact a client in this situation provided the business can 
demonstrate it attempted to in the first place. And I cant see this has been reasonably 
demonstrated in this case.
Furthermore, Mr B said in an email he was only away in Europe for eight months from June 
2019. This doesnt cover the period during which House IFA was advising clients to transfer 
away from Business As platform, in February 2018. Theres also no indication that all his 
contact details  his phone number or physical address for example  changed during this 
time. So, I dont think this was to blame for contact not being made with Mr B.
I also dont think the point House IFA has made about it being Mr Bs responsibility to call his 
adviser to move his funds if he was worried about them is relevant. The issue here is not 
whether Mr B was worried about his investment, but rather should he have been contacted 
by House IFA when it contacted its other clients and what would he have done had that 
happened.
I therefore think its reasonable that House IFA refund the fees its charged Mr B when he 
wasnt actually receiving a service from it. 
As already mentioned, House IFA has already refunded £1173.21, plus interest at 5% to 
reflect any loss of investment growth on these funds. Had these adviser charges not been 
taken, the funds would have remained invested where the rest of Mr Bs pension fund was 
invested. These funds combined didnt achieve a 5% return over the period of time these 
charges were taken, so House IFAs offer on this is generous.
However, the charging records from Business A on Mr Bs account show that in total, 
£1,218.13 was deducted in fees covering the period from when House IFA became directly 
authorised to when it was removed from his account. House IFAs records show it only 
received £1,117.35. It appears two adviser charges taken on 14 March 2018 of £56.30 and 
£44.48 have caused the difference though its not clear why House IFA never received 
these. As no adviser charges should have been taken at this time, these two charges have 
been taken incorrectly in my view and so should also be refunded.
I have next considered what effect House IFAs lack of contact had on Mr Bs pension value 
and potential actions and what would Mr B have done had he been contacted. 
House IFA has argued that Mr B wouldnt have moved out of WEIF because he was a 
speculative investor. I however disagree. The suitability of the investment advice to Mr B and 
his risk tolerance is outside the scope of this decision, but I dont think this bears any 
relevance to what he would have done but for the error of House IFA. Speculative doesnt 
mean an investor is happy to sit back and accept significant losses. Also the risk posed by 
the WEIF wasnt high; given it was an equity fund I would say it held a risk level more around 
a moderate level. So I dont accept that Mr B wouldnt have moved out of the investment or 
moved to a speculative risk investment.
Furthermore, the advice House IFA was giving their clients at the time was to move from 
actively managed investment funds held on online platforms, to risk managed portfolio funds 
on a new platform. Consequently, its other clients invested in the WEIF moved to new 
investments although not as a result of any direct advice focussed on the WEIF.
House IFA has said it recommended this because it would benefit its clients through 
improved administration and provision of clearer information. The examples of this advice 
I've seen from House IFA alongside their reports that all their clients moved to the new 
platform persuades me that Mr B would have switched as well. House IFA said it took around six months to advise the majority of its clients to switch. So it therefore follows that its 
likely Mr Bs pension would have been switched during this time had reasonable efforts been 
made to contact him. Consequently, Mr B wouldn't have remained invested in either the 
Standard Life UK Equity Unconstrained Platform 1 Accumulation fund or the WEIF. Instead 
he would have been invested in a managed portfolio fund suitable for his attitude to risk from 
the end of August 2018 at the latest.
Overall therefore, in my view had House IFA successfully contacted Mr B in 2018 when it 
should have done its very likely he would have transferred away from WEIF. The fund was 
struggling performance wise at that point in time and given this was Mr Bs pension, its not 
unreasonable that he would have wanted to minimise losses as much as possible. However, 
as Mr B didnt move away as he wasnt contacted, he remained in the fund which totalled a 
significant 85% of his overall portfolio, and as a result of the suspension of the fund his 
monies then were frozen.
Obviously, no one could have foreseen the suspension of the WEIF but nevertheless, I am 
satisfied that but for House IFAs error Mr B wouldnt have found himself in this position. He 
would have transferred his monies into a different fund.
Given what has happened to the fund after suspension its fortunate that Mr B has had a 
large amount of his WEIF investment returned to him. However, there is still an amount 
frozen and untouchable and this needs to be recognised by House IFA. 
Overall, therefore given everything I have seen in deciding this complaint, I am of the view 
that House IFA didnt do all it could have to ensure contact with Mr B was made in February 
2018. As a result of this Mr B continued to be charged for services from House IFA that it 
actually wasnt providing. Mr B also lost out on the opportunity to move his funds away from 
the WEIF, which I think it is likely he would have done, and as a result of this some of his 
monies remain inaccessible due to the fund now being suspended.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
be in now if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should House IFA do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, House IFA must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay to Mr B £250. This situation has caused Mr B significant worry mainly due to this 
being his pension. Given the significant size of his investment and the position of the 
WEIF, it has understandably caused him distress and could have been avoided. 
Repay the portion of advisers fees not already refunded by House IFA. House IFA added 5% to these charges to reflect the loss of investment growth on these funds 
and this appears more generous than the approach our service would take here. 
Therefore, House IFA can proceed to follow its own approach here as it wont put 
Mr B in a worse position than he should otherwise be in. If the above comparison 
shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and 
the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest. 
investment name status benchmark from (start date) to (end date)
Personal Pension 
(15% - Standard Life 
UK Equity 
Unconstrained 
Platform 1 
Accumulation fund, 
85% - CF Woodford 
Equity Income Fund.
)transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index30 August 2018Date Mr B 
transferred away 
from House IFA
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
At the end date, part of Mr Bs investment remained frozen in the WEIF, so it wasnt payable 
at that time. It would be unfair to House IFA for this investment to be considered to have no 
value, as Mr B has already received some of the investment value back from the liquidators 
and hell likely receive further disbursements until the liquidation is concluded.
However, Mr B may not eventually receive the value placed on his investment in the fund at 
the end date. In the meantime, he also wont be able to sell his investment and invest the 
proceeds elsewhere.
To fairly address this, House IFA should:
Use the value placed on Mr Bs remaining investment in the Woodford Equity Income 
fund at the end date when determining the total actual value of his investment.
Pay Mr B a return that would likely be generated by the size of this investment in a 
two-year period. They should calculate this by using the average annual return from 
the benchmark above over the past 20 years. House IFA may appropriately deduct 
any proceeds Mr B received from the liquidation since the end date and prior to the 
date of their calculation
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B was unable to mitigate his losses from the Woodford Equity Income fund after 
he complained as the fund had been frozen. Although after removing House IFA as his adviser, they cant be held accountable for any losses he suffered on investments 
outside of the Woodford Equity Income fund.
Mr B wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
The average annual return from this benchmark from the past 20 years gives a fair 
indication of the likely return Mr Bs funds would achieve if they werent invested in a 
frozen fund.
The rate at which the liquidators have liquidated the Woodford Equity Income fund to 
date suggests the entire fund will likely be completely liquidated within a two-year 
period.
The compensation amounts apart from that for the distress and inconvenience caused 
should, if possible, be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
I understand Mr B hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, so 25% of the 
compensation amounts would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment for distress and inconvenience should be paid to Mr B directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct House Independent Financial 
Advisers Ltd to pay Mr B the amount calculated as set out above.
House Independent Financial Advisers Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman