DRN-2293528
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him a mortgage endowment policy.
Mr M is being represented in this complaint. For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr M 
throughout  to include the comments and actions etc. of his representative.  
What happened
In 1996, ReAssure sold Mr M a mortgage endowment policy. He already held a mortgage, 
taken out around 1983, but hes explained that he re-mortgaged several times to update the 
property  meaning he would have needed further repayment vehicles to cover the 
additional lending. He repaid the mortgage and surrendered this policy when he sold the 
property in 2001. 
In 2020, Mr M complained to ReAssure that it had mis-sold him this endowment as its term 
ran past his retirement age and the risks hadnt been explained. ReAssure said there was 
nothing to suggest the sale was inappropriate. Mr M then referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Based on the limited information available (due 
to how long ago the policy was surrendered), he wasnt persuaded that the policy was mis-
sold. He thought, on balance, that Mr M was aware of and comfortable with the risk posed by 
the policy. Mr M disagreed, maintaining that it was unsuitable for ReAssure to recommend a 
policy running into retirement. So the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr M says hes concerned that there is no paperwork available to justify the advice given to 
[him] to take out an endowment policy. But firms arent required to keep records indefinitely, 
and data protection legislation discourages keeping records for longer than necessary. As 
the policy was surrendered almost 20 years ago, I dont consider it unreasonable  or 
surprising  that ReAssure no longer holds records from the sale. And the lack of evidence 
doesnt substantiate the allegations hes raised about how the policy was sold. In the 
circumstances I must decide, based on the available information, whats more likely to have 
happened. 
Mr M has complained that the risks of the policy werent explained to him, and that he wasnt 
made aware of the risk-free alternative of a repayment mortgage. But as our investigator 
has pointed out, Mr M already had a mortgage when he took out this policy  suggesting 
some prior awareness of the repayment options available. The sample from his application 
that hes provided also shows that he held other endowments. I understand these would 
likely have been in place as repayment vehicles for the existing mortgage he held. And hes 
told us in his mortgage questionnaire that he held other investments at the time. I appreciate 
that we have limited information to rely on here. But I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr M was unaware or unsuited to the risk posed by this policy. It seems more likely that he 
was aware of his options and comfortable with the risk. 
I understand that, had Mr M kept the policy for the full term, it would have run into his 
retirement. Ive considered whether this suggests the policy was too risky for him. But based 
on the following information, Im not persuaded it was: 
The letter from the policy surrender in 2001 says the policy was set up to mature in 
August 2014. Given that Mr M said he was intending to retire at 65, the policy would 
only have run around two months past his likely retirement age.
Mr M states in his mortgage questionnaire that he was expecting the policy to run 
until he retired or repaid his mortgage in 2014  suggesting awareness of the impact 
this could have on his retirement planning
Again, according to Mr Ms questionnaire, he was expecting his income in retirement 
to be the same as his income at the time of sale, which would have affected his 
ability to take the risk of a shortfall at the end of the term 
The extent of the overlap into retirement, as well as Mr Ms anticipated circumstances at that 
time, satisfy me that he was more likely aware of and comfortable with this risk. 
Additionally, as our investigator pointed out  if I had found that the policy was mis-sold and 
that Mr M should have been sold a repayment mortgage instead, our usual approach is to 
direct the firm to perform a calculation to compare what position the consumer would be in 
had that happened. To perform this calculation, ReAssure would need details such as the 
premium paid. In this instance, I cant see that this information is available. So even if the 
policy was mis-sold  which, on balance, Im not persuaded it was  it seems unlikely that 
we have enough evidence to substantiate whether Mr M lost out as a result. And wed need 
this to award redress. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M. But theres simply not enough persuasive 
evidence to fairly or safely conclude that ReAssure mis-sold him this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman