DRN-2902204
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided incorrect 
information about her endowment policy.
What happened
Mrs Cs endowment policy was due to mature on 13 May 2020. On 29 February 2020 Mrs C 
called Aviva to query whether any impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on the stock markets 
could change the surrender value of her policy.
 
Aviva informed Mrs C that her investments werent index-linked and that stock market 
fluctuations would not have an impact. Mrs C questioned this again, explaining that she 
could encash the policy if it could impact the investment. Aviva confirmed again that it would 
not have any impact. Mrs C called Aviva again on the 14 March 2020 to check the current 
surrender value. When questioned, Aviva confirmed once more that the investment was not 
impacted by stock market fluctuations.
The final bonus rates for Mrs Cs endowment were impacted by stock market fluctuations 
caused in part by the Covid-19 pandemic. At maturity Mrs C received less than shed 
expected, and subsequently complained about the information she was given.
Aviva agreed its agents could have been clearer. It offered Mrs C £200 for the trouble and 
upset the incorrect information had caused. Mrs C didnt accept this offer, as she felt she 
would have encashed the policy if given the correct information. Aviva didnt agree, so Mrs C 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator agreed that Avivas agent provided the wrong information on the call and 
had opportunity to clarify that the final bonus was subject to change depending on the 
underlying investments. They were convinced that had Mrs C received the correct 
information she wouldve encashed her policy then. Along with the £200 already offered, our 
Investigator recommended Aviva pay the difference between the value she received and the 
value she wouldve received had she surrendered the policy on 29 February 2020.
Mrs C accepted this outcome, but Aviva disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
It felt that it could not be held responsible for providing financial advice to Mrs C, and 
couldnt have told Mrs C to surrender her policy. It agreed that the information it provided 
was incorrect but highlighted that it couldnt have been expected to anticipate the impact the 
Covid-19 pandemic would have on the investment.
It reiterated that the values quoted arent guaranteed and disagreed that it should pay the 
difference between an estimated maturity value and the actual maturity value, as Mrs C 
should only receive what her policy was worth.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that incorrect information was provided to Mrs C in the call that took 
place on 29 February 2020, and I agree that Aviva were provided with opportunity to clarify 
how the final bonus could be impacted by market fluctuations. The disagreement appears to 
be how best to put things right.
Aviva are right to say that it isnt responsible for providing Mrs C with advice. It also isnt 
responsible for instructing Mrs C to sell her investment. Aviva was also not responsible for 
anticipating the impact the Covid-19 pandemic would have. But it was responsible for 
providing clear and accurate information relating to Mrs Cs policy so that she could make 
her own choice of whether to surrender it early.
 
If Aviva had provided the correct information to Mrs C Im satisfied from her own testimony 
and her line of questioning in the February 2020 call that she wouldve encashed her policy 
at that point due to her own concerns about the impact the Covid-19 pandemic might have. 
Instead she left the call believing that the Covid-19 pandemic and potential stock market 
fluctuations could not have an impact on her investment. This has had an impact which is 
greater than Avivas current offer recognises.
Putting things right
Ive considered the position Mrs C wouldve been in had Aviva originally provided the correct 
information. As Im satisfied Mrs C wouldve encashed her policy sooner, Aviva should 
calculate the actual value Mrs C would have received had she started the process to encash 
her policy on 29 February 2020.
I agree with Aviva that Mrs C should only receive what her policy was worth  so I wouldnt 
ask Aviva to use any estimated maturity value previously quoted for this calculation. Aviva 
would need to calculate what amount Mrs C wouldve actually received at the time.
Aviva has already offered to pay Mrs C £200 for the trouble and upset its mistake has 
caused. To award any compensation for trouble and upset Id need to be satisfied that the 
impact of Avivas error was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. And this is the 
case. It must have been distressing for Mrs C to find that the information shed been 
provided had been incorrect, and that this had resulted in a loss for her. But I think that in the 
circumstances the £200 already offered is a fair and reasonable acknowledgement of the 
upset that was caused.
So, to put things right Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited should pay Mrs C: 
The difference, if any, between the surrender value Mrs C wouldve achieved on       
29 February 2020 and the surrender value she was actually paid.
Simple interest on this difference, from the date the value shouldve been paid to the 
date of settlement. The rate of interest is 8% a year - this is for Mrs C being deprived 
of this sum of money over this period.
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset Avivas mistakes caused Mrs C.
If Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should 
calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman