DRN-2859912
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&G) decision
to turn down his claim under his life and critical illness insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr W took out a life and critical illness insurance policy with L&G in 2017. He was originally
offered a policy in March 2017. However, he provided some further details and this policy
was cancelled. L&G issued a new policy in May 2017 on slightly different terms, although the
start date remained as 13 March 2017. According to L&G a personalised policy
booklet was put on an online portal Mr W had access to on 13 March 2017. And a revised
personalised policy booklet was put on the portal on 20 May 2017.
Mr W was taken ill at work in October 2019 and was diagnosed with non-ischemic dilated
cardiomyopathy, which led to him having a CRT-d implant fitted. He made a claim under his
policy. L&G eventually turned his claim down on the basis his condition did not meet the
definition for a successful claim for cardiomyopathy. This decision was based on the policy
document that L&G said it had uploaded to Mr Ws portal in May 2017.
Mr W complained to L&G, as a document he had referred to on his online portal at the time
he made his claim entitled GUIDE TO CRITICAL ILLNESSES COVERED: DEFINITIONS
EXPLAINED (the guide) had a different definition for cardiomyopathy, which he met.
L&G investigated Mr Ws complaint. It explained the guide had been uploaded to his online
portal by mistake at some point. It apologised for this and said his claim had been assessed
based on the definitions in the personalised policy document that had been uploaded to his
online portal, along with a link to an earlier guide to critical illnesses, in 2017. It said it was 
the policy document that set out the terms and conditions of his policy, not the guide, which 
was not actually produced until July 2019. It offered Mr W £500 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset hed experienced as a result of reading the guide and thinking his claim 
would be successful, only to find out this wasnt the case. However, L&G would not pay Mr 
Ws claim. Mr W rejected L&Gs offer and complained to us.
One of our investigators considered his complaint. She didnt think L&G should pay Mr Ws
claim and she felt its offer of £500 for trouble and upset was appropriate.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
thought if L&G had made a mistake it should rectify it to his satisfaction. And he didnt think a
£500 compensation payment was enough, considering the impact L&Gs error had on his life 
and expectation. He also said he reviewed his online portal from time to time with a
view to changing cover on the products he had. And he suggested L&Gs error led to him 
making an ill-informed decision not to update his life and critical illness cover. He also took 
issue with the medical investigation surrounding his claim. He pointed out that he never 
actually saw the Consultant who provided the evidence to L&G on which its final decision on 
his claim was based. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 2021 and set out what Id provisionally decided 
and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the audit trail provided by L&G and I am satisfied from this that a personalised
policy document, which included Mr Ws specific details was uploaded to his online portal on
20 May 2017. And I think this is the document L&G was entitled to use to assess his claim.
This is because it includes Mr Ws specific details, whereas the guide L&G uploaded later in
error was only a guide and was a generic document. So, I think the policy document
uploaded in May 2017 formed the basis of the legal contract Mr W had with L&G. I
appreciate L&G cant explain why the guide was uploaded in error at some point. And it
doesnt know when this happened. However, as far as I can see, it didnt send Mr W
anything notifying him that this had happened or suggesting it was revising the definitions
under his existing policy. So I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to
this complaint if I required L&G to base its assessment of Mr Ws claim on a generic
document it uploaded in error.
This means I think L&G was entitled to assess Mr Ws claim against the policy document it
provided via his online portal in May 2017. And this meant to make a successful claim for
cardiomyopathy Mr Ws condition had to meet the following definition:
Cardiomyopathy - of specified severity
A definite diagnosis of cardiomyopathy by a consultant cardiologist. There must be clinical
impairment of heart function resulting in the permanent loss of ability to perform physical
activities to at least Class 3 of the New York Heart Associations (NYHA) classification of
functional capacity*.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
 Cardiomyopathy secondary to alcohol or drug abuse.
 All other forms of heart disease, heart enlargement and myocarditis.
* NYHA Class 3. Heart disease resulting in marked limitation of physical activities where less
than ordinary activity causes fatigue, palpitation, breathlessness or chest pain.
The Consultant who provided the information on which L&G eventually based its decision
not to pay Mr Ws claim made it clear Mr W did not have a clinical impairment of the of heart
function resulting in permanent loss of ability to perform physical activities to at least Class 3
of the New York Heart Association classification of functional capacity. Because of this Im
satisfied L&G was entitled to turn down Mr Ws claim.
Its very unfortunate that L&G made an error and uploaded the guide to Mr Ws online portal
in error, but I dont think this prejudiced Mr Ws position. I appreciate hes suggested he may
have made an ill-informed decision not to update his cover as a result of it. However, bearing
in mind he wasnt aware he had a heart condition prior to falling ill at work, I think it is highly
unlikely he would have thought about improving the cover he had for cardiomyopathy prior to
this. So, I think hes in the same position now with regards to his claim as he would have
been in if L&G hadnt uploaded the guide in error.
This having been said, I accept L&Gs error caused Mr W a great deal of unnecessary
distress and inconvenience. This is because he clearly would have thought when he
checked the guide via his on-line portal that his claim would be successful and hed receive
£50,000. Instead, he was told he wasnt entitled to anything at all, despite having discovered
he now had a life changing medical condition. In view of this, I dont think L&Gs offer of
compensation was adequate. And I think a substantial payment of £750 is appropriate in Mr
Ws particular circumstances.Ive noted Mr Ws concerns about some of the medical evidence L&G obtained to enable it to
consider his claim. But, whilst I appreciate Mr W didnt see the Consultant who provided
some of the information to L&G on his heart problem, theres nothing to suggest the
information the Consultant provided was incorrect or incomplete. And he was the Consultant
named on Mr Ws discharge notes. Therefore, I think L&G was entitled to rely on the
information he provided.
I gave both parties two weeks to provide further comments and evidence. L&G came back to 
say it agreed with what Id provisionally decided. 
Mr W came back to say he didnt agree. He explained that none of the personalised 
documents were on his L&G portal until recently. And he said there was no evidence of any 
audit trail that shows when the documents were removed having been uploaded in 2017. He 
said when he asked his IFA to review the portal he didnt mention there were missing 
documents and agreed it looked like his claim should be covered. He also said he still thinks 
his position was prejudiced by the wrong document being on the portal, as he would not 
have been updating the policy just on the basis of the definitions changing for 
cardiomyopathy. And Mr W doesnt accept £750 in compensation is enough. 
I then made some further enquiries with L&G. And I established that the personalised policy 
document was not uploaded to Mr Ws portal in 2017 as L&G had suggested. And was in 
fact only uploaded much more recently. L&G explained there was a dynamic document link 
on the portal to the guide to critical illnesses document. In May 2017 this would have linked 
to a guide with a print date of September 2016, which would have included the definition of 
cardiomyopathy as set out in my provisional decision, ie the one in the personalised policy 
document that was eventually uploaded to Mr Ws portal. This enabled me to understand 
that the dynamic link took Mr W to the wrong guide to critical illness in 2019. And it was this 
guide that made him think his claim was covered. 
I wrote to Mr W to explain what Id discovered and say that I felt that  while L&Gs 
administration had been extremely poor, hed suffered a loss of expectation. And I explained 
that I still felt the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint was for him to be 
compensated by a payment for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him.
I also wrote to L&G to explain that the new evidence that had come to light had led me to 
reconsider the amount of compensation that was appropriate for distress and inconvenience. 
And I went on to explain that I now felt £1,500 was appropriate. I asked for L&Gs comments 
on this. 
Mr W came back to say that not only has there been a loss of expectation, there has also 
been a misrepresentation of the product from the outset. And he doubts whether he has ever 
had the correct details for the policy. Hes further explained how hes gone through a long 
period of stress, which he shouldnt have had to go through at what was already a difficult 
time for him. And he still thinks a compensation payment of a few hundred pounds is 
inadequate. 
L&G does not agree that £1,500 in compensation is appropriate. It has said nothing has 
really changed in terms of the loss of expectation Mr Ws experienced as a result of its error. 
So, it still thinks the £750 I recommended in my provisional decision is appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was disappointing to find out that, despite what L&G had told us, the personalised policy 
document wasnt actually added to Mr Ws portal in 2017. However, I dont think this means 
there was a misrepresentation originally or at a later date. I think there was simply an 
administrative error by L&G, which meant the document setting out the contract L&G had 
with Mr W was not provided to him. However, I think this was still the basis of the contract. 
Also, Mr W did have access to the correct critical illness definitions, that is the ones that 
applied under his policy in 2017. And  at this point the 2019 guide didnt even exist. So I still 
think it was fair and reasonable for L&G to assess Mr Ws claim against the definition as set 
out in the personalised policy document, even though Mr W wasnt provided with a copy of 
this until after hed made his claim. 
So, I think Mr W suffered a loss of expectation when he made his claim. And I take L&Gs 
point that this would always have been the case, irrespective of whether he could have 
viewed his personalised policy document on line at some point prior to making his claim. 
However, I have also reconsidered the impact this loss of expectation had on Mr W and Ive 
decided a compensation payment of £1,500 for distress and inconvenience is more 
appropriate. 
Putting things right
Mr W made his claim after finding out he had a life changing illness. And - at this point - he 
understandably thought hed have a large sum of money to help him make any adjustments 
to his work and home life that he felt were needed. But, after going through a difficult 
process, hes had the disappointment of finding out that his claim isnt covered. And hes had 
the added frustration of having his valid point about not having access to the original 
documents rebutted, when he was actually correct. And I think the distress hes gone 
through and the impact all this has had on him was very significant indeed. And this is why I 
now think he should receive compensation of £1,500.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to pay him £1,500 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr 
W has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should add simple interest to the 
compensation at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of my decision to the date it makes 
payment 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman