DRN-3835333
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company.
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr S was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the
security of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In September 2017, following an 
introduction from another financial advice firm, Mr S met with IFM. It completed a financial 
planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr S was aged 50; he was working full-
time; he was married and had two dependent children; he owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage, which cost around £700 a month; and his objective was to ideally 
retire at 55 and work full-time in the second job he already did on a part-time basis. IFM also 
carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low to balanced.
On 4 October 2017, IFM advised Mr S to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds within two investment funds (70/30 split) which IFM deemed 
matched Mr S overall attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for 
this recommendation were to provide Mr S with flexibility and control over taking his 
retirement benefits, which he was prepared to take investment risk to achieve, and to enable 
him to retire when he wanted to and not take the risk of having restrictions in doing so when 
the scheme either entered the PPF or it became the new BSPS.
Around the same time, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr S accepted the recommendation and shortly afterwards around £549,000 was received 
into his new personal pension plan.
Mr S complained to IFM in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mr S said he felt 
hed been steered to transfer to avoid the PPF.
IFM didnt uphold Mr S complaint. In summary it said the transfer advice was suitable. It said 
this was because:
Sufficient information was gathered about Mr S general attitudes, beliefs,
opinions and feelings in respect of his circumstances. Mr S goals were clear.
Mr S objectives pointed towards a transfer.
Mr S was 50 and was looking to access income at 55 to support his proposed 
change to working full-time in the job he currently worked part-time at.
Mr S wished to secure death benefits for his family.
Mr S wanted to access the tax-free cash element early and he wanted flexibility and 
control rather than being limited by scheme rules or those of the PPF.
Mr S had the attitude to risk and capacity for loss to transfer and make the 
investments at the required level.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required IFM to pay compensation. In summary they said that 
while theyd not seen a copy of the transfer analysis carried out by IFM, based on what it 
said in the suitability report about the likely growth rate required to match Mr S existing 
scheme benefits at age 65, the possibility of him improving on his benefits at retirement was 
unlikely. They said Mr S plans for early retirement werent set in stone and as they were five 
years away, there was no urgent reason to transfer out of the BSPS this stage. They said 
any concerns Mr S had about his employer ought to have been addressed and appropriately 
managed by IFM. And they said death benefits wasnt a reason to transfer. They said, 
overall there wasnt sufficient justification for transferring. They said had suitable advice 
been given to Mr S, he ought to have been advised to move his benefits to the BSPS2.
IFM disagreed. In summary, the key arguments it made are as follows:
The fact-find recorded Mr S intentions to retire at age 55 and pursue a full-time role 
in his current second job, which is evidence from the time and evidence it was 
entitled to rely on as being correct.
The premise of the advice was that Mr S couldnt achieve his objectives if he 
remained in the DB scheme  either BSPS2 or the PPF. Mr S needed to match his 
current income. Only a transfer allowed him to take the income he needed.
The purpose of the transfer was not to meet or exceed the BSPS pension  Mr S 
said he was happy to accept a lower pension in order to retire early, which was his 
primary objective.
Mr S could afford to take the risk with the transfer  by the time the pension might run 
out, he and his wife would be in receipt of sufficient other pension income.
Mr S was concerned about the widows pension from the scheme only being £7,000, 
which was far too low for his wife to live on.
The BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at the time. The suggestion Mr S 
couldve waited to transfer as he was still five years from retirement ignores this fact. 
If the scheme moved to the PPF, Mr S would not have been able to transfer in the 
future.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr S 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
IFM was required by the regulator to carry out a transfer value analysis report showing how 
much Mr S pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Unfortunately while IFM says it carried out this analysis, it hasnt been able to provide us 
with a copy. The suitability report only refers to general analysis it had carried out on the 
BSPS. Either way, the suitability report is clear that any analysis was based on the existing 
scheme benefits under the BSPS. But at the time of the advice, the Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) was approved by the Pensions Regulator (under 
pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring mechanism which allows a financially troubled 
employer to detach itself from its liabilities in respect of a DB pension scheme.) As a result, 
scheme members would have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain 
in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option. So analysis of that
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr S. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the 
announcement and knowing that Mr S would be receiving his Time to Choose information in 
October 2017, IFM shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and based the 
analysis and its advice on the BSPS2 instead. That way Mr S wouldve had all the relevant 
information to make a properly informed decision.I accept, as IFM has argued, that BSPS2 was far from being a certainty at the time of the 
advice. But the RAA had been formally approved and in my view all of the available 
information from the scheme trustees indicated that the new scheme would go ahead. So I 
still think IFM shouldve waited and taken the benefits available to Mr S through the new 
BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice, so that he was able to make a properly 
informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr S was 50 at the time of the advice and its recorded that he ideally wanted to retire at 55 
and pursue a full-time position in the role he was currently doing on a part-time basis. As I 
said above, there is no record of the critical yields required to match Mr S benefits as a 
result of transferring out and investing his pension benefits in line with his stated attitude to 
risk. But the suitability report referred to a general critical yield figure of 8%, which I assume 
was based on a full pension at age 65. The critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF was quoted as being 4% at age 65  again I assume based on a full 
pension. For a retirement age of 55, I think its reasonable to assume the critical yields 
wouldve been higher in this case.
Notwithstanding the fact that IFMs analysis based on a retirement age of 65 was already 
unhelpful to Mr S given his apparent intended retirement age of 55, as Ive said above, Mr S 
remaining in the existing BSPS wasnt an option at this time. So IFM shouldve waited until 
details of the BSPS2 were provided and produced the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 
benefits instead. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased 
the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement (age 65) and 3.0% for four years to retirement 
(age 55.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr S 
low to balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be 
little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him through the BSPS only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the quoted critical 
yields were 8% through the existing scheme and 4% through the PPF. 
If Mr S were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 65, I think the critical yield 
wouldve been somewhere between these two figures, but likely closer to the
existing scheme of 8%. Given this was significantly above both the discount rate and the
regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr S was most likely to receive benefits of a lower
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a
result of investing in line with a low to balanced attitude to risk. Im mindful here that as I said 
above, a retirement age of 55 wouldve likely seen critical yields in excess of the ones 
quoted. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required wouldve required
Mr S to take a higher level of investment risk than he indicated he was prepared to
take. And even then I think hed still be no better off as a result of transferring. This pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr S private retirement income provision, so I dont think his 
capacity for loss was high.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr S wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. As I
said above, no critical yield was produced based on Mr S preferred retirement age. But at 
65 it was quoted as being 4% - so at age 55 it was likely to be higher. While this is slightly 
lower than the discount rate and lower than the regulators middle projection rate, I think 
even based on a retirement age of 65 it seems likely to me that the opportunity to improve 
on the benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Mr S transferred out of the BSPS.
I can see IFM has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr S wouldve been able 
to meet his household income needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, 
but firstly they appear to have been produced when IFM submitted its business file to us. So 
it doesnt appear these were used as part of the advice process or discussed with Mr S. In 
any event, the modelling appears to show that, based on Mr S drawing enough money from 
his pension to maintain the same level of income at 55 when he said he would change jobs, 
his pension fund would run out around his state pension age. It then appears to show he 
would be reliant on his and his wifes state pension for more than half of their income need.
As I said, it doesnt appear this information was shared with Mr S at the time of the advice, 
But regardless, Im not persuaded it demonstrates the transfer was financially viable or in 
Mr S best interests. It also, in my view, somewhat undermines the rationale for transferring 
to provide lump sum death benefits when it appears there would be very little, if anything left, 
to pass on to Mr S family in the event of his death anyway. Ill come back to this later on.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr S best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits, as IFM has argued in this case. It says the transfer was not predicated on Mr S 
trying to beat the benefits available to him through the BSPS. Ive considered whether such 
consideration apply in this case below.
Flexibility and income needs
The primary reason it appears IFM recommended the transfer was because Mr S couldnt 
meet his objective of maintaining his standard of living at 55 by remaining in his DB scheme. 
The recommendation said a transfer would provide Mr S with flexibility  it would allow him 
to decide when and how he took his pension benefits and not run the risk of being restricted 
when the scheme moved to the PPF or it becomes the new BSPS.
But Im not persuaded that, based on Mr S recorded objective that he required flexibility in 
retirement. in my view the reference to flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of 
moving to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr S. Ill 
explain why.
Mr S was 50 at the time of the advice and its recorded that his intention was to retire at 55 
from his current job and take up a full-time position in the job he was currently doing part-
time. IFM says he wanted to maintain his standard of living, so he needed around £26,000 a 
year from his pension for him to achieve things. And this couldnt be achieved by Mr S 
remaining in the DB scheme (whether the BSPS2 or the PPF.) Firstly, while I can see it was Mr S intention to retire early at 55, the suitability report said: 
You explained to me that you would ideally like to retire around 55 from British Steel and 
work as a ... from that point. So it doesnt suggest to me Mr S plans were set in stone at 
this stage. There is nothing recorded that Mr S had investigated whether it was possible for 
him to work full-time in the future. But in any event, Im mindful that it was still five years 
away until Mr S might think about actioning things  so Im not persuaded there was any 
urgency at this stage for him to give up his guaranteed benefits now when the possibility 
existed that his plans might change during the intervening five years.
I can see IFM has said that waiting ignores the fact that there were no guarantees the 
BSPS2 would go ahead as proposed. And if it didnt, Mr S would find himself in the PPF and 
he would lose his ability to transfer out and achieve his goals. But I think IFM is downplaying 
the likelihood of the BSPS2 going ahead - as I said earlier on, all of the available information 
at the time indicated that it would go ahead as proposed. So I dont think these concerns 
shouldve led to IFM recommending Mr S transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. In any 
event as I will go on to explain, Im not persuaded Mr S need to transfer to achieve things.
In my view, this is all about Mr S likely future income need and his true income need - it is 
not about needing flexibility. IFMs advice appears to be based on Mr S needing to maintain 
his standard of living and to generate the same level of income at 55 as he was earning at 
the time of the advice. Mr S annual income was recorded as being around £58,000 from his 
two jobs and his wife earned around £27,000, so a total household income of around 
£85,000 a year.
But theres no evidence to indicate that IFM interrogated Mr S plans to understand whether 
this was realistic and achievable or indeed whether this was the level of income Mr S truly 
needed. While I accept it is not uncommon for people to typically live up to their incomes, the 
income and expenditure IFM recorded in the fact-find for Mr S, shows that his household 
monthly expenditure was around £3,600 a month. And this left a surplus income of around 
£1,400 a month. Although the expenditure recorded was not particularly granular in terms of 
its categories, it nevertheless included Mr S mortgage payment, his household utility bills, 
food, clothing and car / travel costs. It also included £1,000 recorded under other. 
So on the basis this was a reasonably accurate reflection of Mr S household expenditure, 
which it ought to have been given the advice being considered, Mr S income need appears 
to have been around £3,600 a month. Mr S might have been spending more now because 
he was earning more. But it appears his need was in fact lower.
Im mindful too that Mr S indicated he was prepared to accept a lower pension for the ability 
to retire early, which suggests he was willing and could adjust his standard of living / budget 
accordingly. So Im not persuaded he did need to generate an income £85,000 a year. So on 
the basis that Mr S did execute his objective at 55 as its recorded he intended, his expected 
annual income of around £32,000, together with his wifes income of around £27,000 a year, 
appears to have been sufficient to meet this need. 
At some point Mr S mortgage would be repaid (IFM didnt record the details of this or the 
repayment date) reducing his expenditure by £700 a month. But even with his mortgage 
payment included it appears Mr S and his wifes joint earned income might have been 
sufficient. So its possible Mr S wouldnt need to touch his pension at 55. 
But even if I accept Mr S income need was greater than this, I still think its possible that the 
income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme didnt go ahead) wouldve provided 
Mr S with the additional income he needed if he decided to execute his plan as he intended. 
At 55, IFMs analysis using the existing BSPSs reduction factors, suggests Mr S would 
receive an annual income of around £15,400 a year as a full pension. Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower. And if the BSPS2 
hadnt gone ahead, the income Mr S would receive under the PPF was likely lower than the 
pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. But I dont think either was substantially lower 
such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation at this time. 
With Mr S and his wifes combined earned income plus the pension income from Ms S DB 
scheme would take Mr S total household income to just under £74,500 a year. In my view, 
this is still a substantial annual income figure and one that I think with proper interrogation 
and analysis of Mr S expenditure, and with proper consideration of his willingness to accept 
a lower pension to be able to achieve things, wouldve likely met Mr S true income need. 
Furthermore, by retaining the DB scheme, it appears Mr S overall retirement income once 
he reached state pension age would be higher. This is because based on IFMs cashflow 
analysis it provided, Mr S transferred pension fund would be used up if he accessed what 
IFM said he needed between age 55 to 67 to maintain an £85,000 income target. Whereas 
by retaining the DB scheme, this would give Mr S a guaranteed and escalating pension 
income for life supplemented by his two other smaller workplace pensions, both his and his 
wifes state pensions plus Mr S wifes workplace pension. 
IFM wasnt there to just facilitate what Mr S said he wanted or he thought he needed. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr S needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests. I think part of this was understanding Mr S true income need and properly 
exploring the possibility that he could achieve his goals by remaining in the DB scheme. I 
think the evidence supports the view that Mr S couldve likely met his objective and income 
needs in retirement through the BSPS2 or the PPF with closer analysis of his income and 
expenditure - so I dont think it was in Mr S best interests to transfer his pension at this 
stage.
Death benefits
While the primary reason for IFMs recommendation was to provide Mr S with flexibility, 
reference is also made in the advice paperwork to Mr S desire to secure better death 
benefits for his family  IFM recorded that Mr S thought the schemes widows pension was 
too low to protect his young family. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision tool.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. In my 
view the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if 
Mr S predeceased her. I dont think IFM made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr S. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as IFMs cashflow 
analysis shows, there might not be much, if anything left of the fund to pass on anyway. In 
any event, IFM should not have encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore Mr S already had lump sum death benefits available. IFM knew that Mr S had 
generous death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement  six 
times his salary. And it also knew that Mr S was paying into his DC scheme and he wouldve been able to nominate his spouse as beneficiary of this if he hadnt already done so.
But if Mr S was genuinely concerned about leaving a legacy for his wife / family over and 
above that which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns, I 
think IFM ought to have explored and ultimately recommended, additional life cover. The 
starting point here neednt have been to base the cover on the full transfer value, but ought 
to have been considered in terms of how much Mr S wanted to leave his family, after taking 
into account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. And I dont think 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Another of IFMs reasons for its recommendation was to ensure Mr S could retire when he 
wanted and not take the risk of having restrictions in place when the scheme entered the 
PPF or it became the new BSPS. Reference was also made to Mr S concerns about the 
scheme.
I have no doubt that Mr S was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So
its quite possible that Mr S was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was IFMs obligation to 
give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed likely the BSPS2 was going to
go ahead. So I think IFM shouldve waited for the details of the BSPS2 so it could
properly take the benefits available to Mr S through the BSPS2 into account. And I think this
wouldve alleviated Mr S concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, and the scheme
moved to the PPF, I think that IFM shouldve reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. Despite what IFM indicated, 
Mr S did still have the option of taking early retirement through the PPF. As I set out above I 
think the income available to Mr S through the PPF wouldve still likely provided enough to 
meet his income need at retirement. Importantly he was also unlikely to be able to exceed 
this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr S might not have 
been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons I set out earlier, there was no 
apparent need for him to do so. 
So I dont think that Mr S concerns shouldve led to IFM recommending he transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether.Summary
I accept that Mr S was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would 
have sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But as I said earlier on, IFM wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr S might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr S needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr S was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr S shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to have flexibility that it wasnt clear he needed, and the potential for higher 
death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr S best interests for him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal 
pension at this time.
So, I think IFM shouldve advised Mr S that he should not transfer the benefits of his BSPS 
to a personal pension arrangement. And if things had happened as they should have and 
IFM had waited until the details of the BSPS2 were known before formulating its advice, 
which was in the offing at the time of its written advice, I think it shouldve recommended that 
Mr S opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But as Ive already 
said, I think everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to have been the position IFM 
adopted. Because Im not persuaded that Mr S retirement plans were set in stone, I don't 
think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable 
reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr S wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if his needs demanded 
it. Also, Mr S was married and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr S chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against IFM's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS, against IFMs advice. I say this because, while as Ive already 
said Mr S was likely motivated to transfer when he approached IFM, I still think Mr S 
wouldve listened to and followed IFMs advice if things had happened as they should have 
and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr S was not, in my view, an 
experienced investor who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against 
the advice they were given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr S pension 
accounted for the majority of his private retirement provision and he wasnt prepared to 
accept much by way of investment risk. So, if IFM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded Mr S concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If IFM had 
explained that Mr S could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr S wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against IFMs advice.
In light of the above, I think IFM should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it 
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr S. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
IFM which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr S. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr S is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr s would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
For clarity, a change in Mr S circumstances has meant that, although he has not yet retired, 
he began taking his pension benefits in 2022 aged 55. So, in the circumstances I consider it 
is only fair that compensation should be based on Mr S taking benefits at age 55 as this is 
what has actually happened.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr S accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr S end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. 
So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr S likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
IFM should also pay Mr S £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the 
unsuitable advice has caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman