DRN-4196557
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited unfairly rejected claims he made under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also complains that it failed to carry out proper 
affordability checks before lending to him.
What happened
In 1999 Mr W bought a points-based membership of a holiday club (the Club) from a 
company (the Company). The membership entitled him to use the points as payment for 
holidays. He bought further points in 2003 and 2012. In September 2014 he increased his 
number of points again, buying a further 7,000 points for £5,880. He used a credit card to 
meet £1,176 of the purchase price, and funded the balance with a loan for £4,704 from 
Shawbrook. The loan was set to run for ten years, with monthly repayments of £68.03.
In June 2017 Mr W complained, using professional representatives, to Shawbrook. Mr Ws 
representatives said that he was entitled to bring a claim against Shawbrook under 
section 75 CCA because the Company had made promises to Mr W which it knew to be 
untrue  in other words it had made misrepresentations to him. They said the Company told 
Mr W that he could only exit his membership by buying a fractional points membership, 
which it was guaranteed hed be able to exit, in turn, after a set number of years. But it 
turned out that there were other ways he could have exited his original membership, and 
hed only have been able to exit a fractional membership if a purchaser was found.
Mr Ws representatives also said that the Company had breached its agreement with Mr W. 
They said that Mr Ws membership was described in the paperwork as being of an 
exclusive club. They pointed out that Mr W had paid a considerable amount for his 
membership, and they considered that it was implied that hed have access to exclusive 
resorts which werent available to non-members, and/or accommodation which was cheaper 
than Mr W could have found elsewhere. As it turned out, though, accommodation at resorts 
shown on the Companys website was unavailable to members of the Club but available to 
members of the general public. And taking into account the annual management charge, the 
cost of a holiday that was available would have been considerably higher for Mr W than for a 
non-Club member.
Mr Ws representatives said that the purchase contract promised memorable holidays. But 
they believe a holiday cant be described as memorable if it cant be booked, or can only be 
booked at a price considerably higher than to non-Club members.
Mr Ws representatives also said that the relationship between Mr W and the Company was 
unfair under section 140A CCA. They said that the Company paid Shawbrook a commission, 
which was concealed from Mr W. And they said that the fact that there was an agreement 
between the Company and Shawbrook called into question the Companys impartiality.
Whats more, they said that Mr W had no control over the sums incurred or charged under 
the membership contract. They believe that this contravenes the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) and rendered the contract entirely unenforceable.
They also said the Company pressured Mr W into buying the points in 2014 and didnt carry 
out a proper assessment of Mr Ws financial position before making the loan. 
Shawbrook rejected Mr Ws complaint, and Mr Ws representatives complained, on his 
behalf, to this service. One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint, but didnt think 
it should be upheld. She didnt think thered been any misrepresentation to Mr W when he 
bought the points or any breach of contract by the Company. She didnt think it likely that a 
court would conclude that the relationship between Mr W and Shawbrook was unfair. And 
she hadnt seen anything to make her think that the loan was unaffordable for Mr W.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Shawbrook on 19 May 2023. I said:
My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Ive considered all the submissions and evidence provided by both parties, and Ive 
borne them all in mind in reaching my decision. But Im only going to refer to what I think 
are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions.
Section 75 CCA
Mr Ws representatives say the Company mis-sold him the points because he was 
incorrectly told at the time of sale that he could only exit his membership by buying a 
fractional points membership, which hed then be able to exit after a certain number of 
years.
Where a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier (the Company, in 
this case) they can, in certain circumstances, make a like claim against their lender 
under section 75 CCA. The claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the 
consumer could make against the supplier.
The Key Information Document included a clearly headed section on Termination of the 
Points Membership by or at the request of the Member. This explained how Mr W could 
end his membership by transferring or selling his points. For example, he was permitted 
to sell his points to an existing member of the Club. I think it unlikely that he was told that 
hed only be able to exit his membership by upgrading to a fractional membership  or, 
for that matter, that any such suggestion would have induced him to agree to buy the 
points.
Ive seen nothing in the paperwork provided to support Mr Ws claim that he was told that 
the Club membership would entitle him to book holiday accommodation that wasnt 
available to the general public, or that the accommodation would be cheaper for him to 
book than it would be for non-Club members. It may be that Mr W believed this to be the 
case. But if so, I cant fairly conclude that this was because of anything he was told by 
the Company. Whats more, by 2014 hed already been a member of the holiday club for 
many years and would have been familiar with how it operated.So Im not persuaded that the Company misrepresented the position to Mr W. I can see 
from the evidence provided that Mr W used his membership to book holidays. The 
paperwork from the time of sale includes no guarantee that specific accommodation will 
be available on a given date. Nor does it refer to accommodation being exclusive to Club 
members, or the cost being more favourable for Club members. So Im not satisfied that 
there was any breach of contract.
Given that Im not persuaded that there was any misrepresentation or breach of contract 
on the Companys part, I cant fairly conclude that it was unreasonable of Shawbrook to 
turn down Mr Ws claim under section 75 CCA.
Unfair relationship  s.140A CCA
Section 140A CCA allows a court to determine whether an unfair relationship exists 
between the creditor (Shawbrook in this case) and the debtor (Mr W) because of any of 
the terms of the credit agreement or the related agreement, the way the creditor has 
enforced their rights under the agreement or any other thing done by (or on behalf of) the 
creditor before or after the credit agreement was made. Only a court has the power to 
make such a determination, but as I consider it to be relevant law, Ive taken it into 
account in deciding whether Shawbrook acted fairly in declining Mr Ws claim.
Ive also borne in mind that, under section 56 CCA, any negotiations between Mr W and 
the Company are deemed to have been conducted by the Company as an agent for 
Shawbrook. This includes any representations made by the Company and any other 
dealings between them. In the context of section 140A this means that the pre-
contractual acts or omissions of the Company will be deemed to be the responsibility of 
the lender. So this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the consumer and the lender.
But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not convinced that its likely that a court would 
conclude that the relationship between Mr W and Shawbrook was unfair.
Mr Ws representatives say that the Company pressured Mr W into buying the points in 
2014. But Ive seen no testimony from Mr W about the sale. And aside from what his 
representatives have said, Ive seen nothing to make me think that any pressure was 
applied to him to make the purchase.
Mr W had already been a member of the Club for some years, and would have been 
familiar with the points structure and how it worked. Ive also borne in mind that on one of 
the previous occasions on which Mr W had bought more points, hed quickly changed his 
mind and cancelled the purchase. If (which I dont accept) hed only bought the extra 
points in September 2014 because he felt pressured to do so, I think its likely hed have 
cancelled the purchase within the 14-day cooling-off period, once hed had time to reflect.
After the investigator sent out her view of the complaint, Mr Ws representatives made 
further submissions about the fairness of the relationship between Mr W and Shawbrook. 
They said that Mr W wasnt given the contract and full paperwork setting out the terms 
and conditions of the membership until after hed committed to buy the points. I havent 
been provided with any testimony from Mr W, and cant be sure whether this is, in fact, 
what happened. But Mr W was only committed to buy the points once hed signed the 
contract. And once hed done that, he could have changed his mind at any point within 
the 14-day cooling-off period. Ive already commented that hed done this on a previous 
occasion, and so would have been familiar with the potential to withdraw from the 
purchase.Management charges
Mr Ws representatives say that the management charges payable by Mr W were likely to 
be disproportionate, due to the expenses and capital contributions they included. And 
they say that this wasnt made clear to Mr W. They believe that this was contrary to The 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) and The Timeshare, 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare 
Regulations).
I acknowledge that its possible the Company didnt satisfy its regulatory responsibility 
under the Timeshare Regulations by giving Mr W clear and timely information about the 
charges he might be subject to as a result of his membership. But even if that was the 
case, Mr W had already been a member of the club for many years by 2014. And I think 
his experience as a member is likely to have given him a reasonable amount of insight 
into what the ongoing costs of membership and what they might be like going forward. 
He decided to buy the further points with that experience in mind. So in the absence of a 
credible explanation from him as to why the Companys cost disclosure could be said to 
have played a significant part in that decision, Im not persuaded that it did.
Whats more, Ive borne in mind that the Supreme Court has made it clear that for the 
purposes of section 140A CCA, any regulatory breach must be considered in the round, 
rather than in a narrow, technical way. Section 140A(2) says that a court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor). I think thats wide enough to include the way the supplier 
exercises or enforces any terms that are or may be unfair. But I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that any terms in this case have, in fact, been exercised or enforced in a way 
that has been unfair to Mr W.
In addition, I understand that the Company has given BPF an undertaking that 
consumers with complaints at the Financial Ombudsman Service who are still members 
of this particular scheme can choose to relinquish their membership without having to 
pay any outstanding annual management charges, and without prejudice to their ongoing 
complaint. So even if the terms Mr Ws representatives have referred to were unfair 
under the UTCCR, I think the Companys undertaking goes a long way towards 
mitigating or resolving the unfairness in the absence of evidence that theyve operated 
unfairly against Mr W in practice.
Commission
Ive also considered the reference to commission that Mr Ws representatives believe 
Shawbrook would have paid to the Company. As far as Im aware, the levels of 
commission normally paid in this situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to 
mean that Shawbrook should have appreciated that not telling Mr W about any 
commission paid risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under section 140A. 
If any commission was paid, I think its unlikely to have been more than 5%. I cant see 
that Shawbrook would have breached any duty in making such a payment. And Im not 
persuaded that it was under an obligation to disclose the amount of any commission paid 
in these circumstances.
Affordability checks
Mr W has also expressed dissatisfaction about the checks which Shawbrook carried out 
to ensure that the loan was affordable for him. And his representatives have said that 
Shawbrook failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment in line with the 
Finance and Leasing Associations Lending Code 2006.I havent been provided with full details of the affordability checks that Shawbrook carried 
out before making the loan. But even if I were to reach the view that Shawbrook should 
have carried out more detailed checks than it did, I could only require it to take action to 
put things right if I were convinced that an appropriate level of checks would have 
revealed that Mr W would have difficulty meeting the monthly payments of £68.03.
Im aware that Mr W told Shawbrook in 2019 that he was experiencing difficulties making 
his monthly loan repayments. But as things stand, neither Mr W nor his representatives 
have made any suggestion that the payments were unaffordable for him at the time when 
he bought the points. Nor have they explained why that was likely to have been the case, 
given his financial circumstances at the time of sale.
As Ive mentioned above, on one of the previous occasions on which Mr W had bought 
more points, hed quickly changed his mind and cancelled the purchase. If hed had 
concerns about the affordability of the points he bought with the loan from Shawbrook, 
I think its likely, on balance, that hed have cancelled the purchase within the cooling-off 
period  a possibility that he was familiar with.
Mr Ws representatives have made various arguments which would only be relevant if his 
membership of the Club were fractional. But Im satisfied that Mr Ws membership was a 
points-based, non-fractional membership. So I havent considered those points.
So my provisional decision was that I did not uphold the complaint.
Further submissions
Shawbrook has told us that it has no further comments to make. Mr Ws representatives 
havent provided any further comments or information, and the time for doing so has now 
expired.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman