DRN-3516756
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers, repairers and others insofar as I hold
Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from June 2021, Mr H had an Admiral policy. It covered him as policyholder. It
also covered two friends as named drivers, one of whom was a Mr L.
Mr H reported that  after Mr L had driven it - someone had stolen his car on 15 September
2021.
Later in September 2021, police found the vehicle - with some damage.
From mid-November 2021, Mr H complained to Admiral about poor communication and
delay in progressing the claim and providing a courtesy car.
It wasnt until 3 December 2021 that Admiral authorised repairs. From 8 December 2021
Admiral provided a courtesy car. Mr H got his car back in early January 2022.
By a final response dated 4 January 2022, Admiral upheld the part of Mr Hs complaint about
communication and paid him £50.00 compensation.
On 5 January 2022, Mr H sent an email to Admiral, replying to the final response. On the
same day, Mr H brought his complaint to us.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think
that Admiral had caused any significant delays in authorising the repairs. But she thought
that there had been some failings in customer service. Our investigator recommended that 
Admiral should:
1. provide Mr H with a further £100.00 compensation for inconvenience and upset; and
2. update their systems to show his name correctly capitalised.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H    
and to Admiral on 11 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
As regards the complaint about capital letters, Admiral responded to us and later 
agreed to the investigators recommendation. Mr H hadnt responded to the 
investigators recommendation. So I would endorse the recommendation that Admiral 
should update its records.
I was satisfied that Admiral investigated the claim within a reasonable time. Keeping 
in mind the terms of the policy, I was satisfied that it also provided a courtesy car 
within a reasonable time.
So I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr H compensation for
inconvenience, travel costs or loss of earnings from mid-September 2021 to 8 
December 2021.
There were times when Mr H had to ask Admiral for updates. And Id seen from his 
emails that this was causing him extra inconvenience in having to contact Admiral 
and others. Id also noted that he felt belittled at an already difficult time for him.
As this went on for about three months, I didnt consider that Admirals payment of 
£50.00 or the investigators recommendation of a further £100.00 were enough.
Subject to any further information from Mr H  or from Admiral, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
1. pay Mr H  in addition to the £50.00 already paid - a further £200.00 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience; and
2. update its records to show his name correctly capitalised.
Mr H has commented on the provisional decision as follows: 
Admiral was sent the key and tracking device on the 17 September 2021 along with 
all relevant paperwork and therefore had plenty of time to make enquiries of the key.
The police wished to gain access to the vehicle for forensics and were going to 
smash the window to gain entry. He objected to this and arranged with the insurance 
company on or around 29 September 2021 for the key to be sent out.
His vehicle was left with the franchised garage for over two weeks. This just added to 
the delays. 
The vehicle was taken into the insurance garage on or around 11 October 2021.
The investigation on the key did not take place until the final stage of the case until 
later November / early December. 
The front grille required a repair. He collected his vehicle in early February and was 
informed he would be contacted once the part had arrived. He returned the courtesy 
car. To date, the repair has not been fully completed.
The issue with his name continues in emails.Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP).
The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first make the complaint to the
financial firm and wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we can investigate 
that complaint.
Mr Hs email on 5 January 2022 included the following complaints:
that Admiral should use capital letters for the initial letters of his name;
that Admiral had mishandled the return of his documents.
I dont think that hed made those complaints to Admiral before its final response.
When he filled in our complaint form, Mr H said that he speculated that he wouldve received
better service if hed used his English middle name. I dont think hed made that complaint to
Admiral before its final response.
As regards the complaint about capital letters, Admiral responded to us and later agreed to
the investigators recommendation. Mr H has shown us emails as recent as March and April 
2022 in which Admiral has failed to capitalise the first letter of his first name. So I will 
endorse the recommendation that Admiral should update its records.
Mr H has made other complaints that he hadnt made to Admiral before its final response. 
That includes his complaint about the grille, which post-dated the final response and the 
referral to us. Admiral hasnt given us any substantive response to those complaints. So  
under DISP - I dont consider that I have the legal power to investigate those complaints 
further at this stage.
That brings us back to Mr Hs central complaints about communication and delay in
progressing the claim and providing a courtesy car.
Admirals policy didnt provide a courtesy car in the event of a total loss  only in the event
that it had authorised repairs.
On about 29 September 2021, Mr H found out the location of his vehicle and told Admiral.
Admiral instructed a repairer and an investigator.
Mr H wasnt able to provide DVLA check codes for all drivers until about 8 October 2021. On
about 12 October, Admiral said it had done the checks.
By 20 October 2021, Admirals investigator had interviewed Mr H.
On about 21 October 2021, Admiral received the repairers estimate. At about the same
time, Admiral contacted police to verify the crime reference number.
On 29 October 2021, Admiral had received a report from its investigator includingstatements from Mr H and Mr L.
The investigator raised concerns about lack of detail from Mr L. The investigator
recommended that Admiral should obtain a police report and get an expert to examine the
one available key. 
On 2 November 2021, Admiral sent Mr H a form for its application for a police report. At
about the same time it asked its repairer for the vehicle key.
On about 17 November 2021, Admiral received the key.
After some difficulty over the form, Mr H completed it fully on 29 November 2021.
On 30 November 2021, Admiral received a report on the key. That was about a month after 
the investigator suggested it. I dont find it unreasonable that Admiral hadnt obtained the 
report on the key earlier.
As Ive said, Admiral authorised repairs on 3 December 2021, and provided a courtesy car
on 8 December 2021.
Ive noted what Mr H has said about his vehicles unexplained stay at the franchised garage. 
However, from my consideration of the timeline, Im satisfied that Admiral investigated the 
claim within a reasonable time. Keeping in mind the terms of the policy, Im satisfied that it 
also provided a courtesy car within a reasonable time.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr H compensation for
inconvenience, travel costs or loss of earnings from mid-September to 8 December 2021.
The theft claim inevitably involved Mr H in contact with the police, Admiral, its repairer and
its investigator. From my reading of the file, I cant say that Admiral caused more
inconvenience than was reasonable.
But Ive seen that there were times when Mr H had to ask Admiral for updates. And Ive seen
from his emails that this was causing him extra inconvenience in having to contact Admiral
and others. Ive also noted that he felt belittled at an already difficult time for him.
As this went on for about three months, I dont consider that Admirals payment of £50.00 or
the investigators recommendation of a further £100.00 were enough. 
Putting things right
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr H  in addition to the £50.00 
already paid - a further £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
1. pay Mr H  in addition to the £50.00 already paid - a further £200.00 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience; and
2. update its records to show his name correctly capitalised. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman