DRN-2290999
The complaint 
Mrs M complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma irresponsibly lento her. She 
says she was suffering mentally and wasnt in a position to make financial decisions.
What happened
Mrs M borrowed a loan of £500 secured on her car in January 2019. The loan was due to be 
repaid over 18 monthly instalments of £77.78. Mrs M fell into difficulty repaying the loan and 
Varooma repossessed the car.
Mr C on behalf of Mrs M raised a complaint with Varooma. Varooma responded by saying it 
carried out enough checks before lending to Mrs M and it hadnt done anything.
Mrs M complains that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma irresponsibly lento her. She 
says she was suffering mentally and wasnt in a position to make financial decisions.
Unhappy with Varoomas response, Mr C on behalf of Mrs M referred the complaint to this 
service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators, our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. She said that Mrs M couldnt afford the loan and so Varooma needed to put 
things right. Varooma agreed but said it had now auctioned Mrs Ms car and after the sale of 
the car, there was still an outstanding balance on the capital amount that Mrs M needed to 
pay.
Mr C on behalf of Mrs M disagreed, he said he believed the car was worth more than what 
Varooma sold it for and so Mrs M shouldnt still be owing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
I wont be going into the details about the affordability of the loan here as Varooma agrees it 
shouldnt have lent to Mrs M. Ill focus my decision the dispute over the proposed resolution 
of the complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement Mrs M reached with Varooma when she took out the loan and 
section 4 of the Bill of Sale clearly states that Varooma could remove and sell the car either 
through public auction or private sale. Mrs M hadnt kept up with payments under her 
agreement and Varooma was within its right to repossess her car and sell it.
Mr C on behalf of Mrs M says Varooma didnt do its best to get a fair price for the car and 
believes the car is worth £1,400 and not £130.20 which Varooma sold it for. I havent seen 
any evidence to show that the car was worth £1,400.
Varooma has provided evidence to show that the car was sold in an auction and I can see 
that the amount Varooma stated is what the car was sold for. Varooma has also told this 
service that the car was a category C car  a car that the cost of repairing outweighs the 
value, and due to its age and high mileage, the value was impacted. I dont find this 
unreasonable and from the evidence provided I cant say that Varooma has done something 
wrong here. The bill of sale allows it to auction the car and that is what it has done. 
I appreciate that Mrs M is struggling with her mental health and she has provided 
confirmation from a medical practitioner that she cant make decisions about money. I dont 
doubt that things are difficult for Mrs M and Im sorry to hear that shes had such a tough 
time with the illness and its effects on her life. 
Ive looked carefully at the information provided at the time of application and also listened to 
the call and theres nothing within that information that would have prompted Varooma to 
question Mrs Ms mental capacity at the time. I appreciated Mr Cs point about her mental 
illness making her do whatever she needs to do to get what she wants but Varooma didnt 
know this. From the available information this wasnt obvious, and I dont think Varooma 
would reasonably have known this.
While I understand it will be disappointing, based on these set of facts, I think Varoomas 
offer is fair and as there remains an outstanding capital balance, I think Mrs M will need to 
repay this as shes had use of the money.
So while I agree Varooma shouldnt have lent to Mrs M in the first place, it has agreed to put 
things right in line with this services recommendation and I think thats fair in these 
circumstances.
Putting things right 
Varooma has provided evidence to show that Mrs M hasnt made any payments towards her 
loan and it has deducted the proceeds of £130.20 from the sale of Mrs Ms car from the 
capital amount borrowed.
Varooma should ensure Mrs M doesnt repay more than the capital amount of £500 and as 
theres currently an outstanding balance, Id remind Varooma to offer Mrs M help and agree 
a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding capital balance.
My final decision I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Greenlight Credit Ltd to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman