DRN-2201081
The complaint
Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1999. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander has said, but Ive still decided to uphold this complaint. This 
is because Santander recommended the policy to Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W, but I dont 
think it was suitable for them. This is because, a few months before the sale of the PPI, Mr B 
was diagnosed with a serious incurable illness. It was controllable to some degree with 
medication, but it still could have led to significant complications. Mr B would not have been 
covered for any claims related to that illness.
Santander has queried the evidence that Mr B was diagnosed before the policy commenced. 
But I am satisfied that he has given an accurate account of when the diagnosis happened. 
There is clear medical evidence that the diagnosis was in 1999. And Mr B has given a 
credible reason as to why he remembers the particular month of his diagnosis. I also note 
that he did not mention the diagnosis, when he at first wrongly believed the sale of the PPI 
had been earlier in 1999, before the date of his diagnosis  and so this is consistent with him 
giving an accurate and precise account. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, 
Santander can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W and Mrs W compensation in 
accordance with the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Mr B, Mr W 
and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman