DRN-2851686
The complaint
Mr S complains that Motability Operations Limited wont allow him to transfer a number plate 
onto a car it has supplied to him.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with Motability.
Mr S purchased a number plate for the car. He asked Motability if he could transfer it 
but they refused on the grounds that the criteria for personalised number plates hadnt 
been met.
Mr S complained to this service. Hes said that his niece is the main driver of the car and 
that he bought the number plate for her as a present to say thank you for all the help she 
gives him.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the number plate was owned by Mr S and 
that although the details on the plate didnt relate to him, but to the named driver, there 
was no real risk that the named driver could use the car for her own purposes. The 
investigator said that Motability should allow the plate to be transferred.
Motability didnt agree. It said it was being asked to do something which went against 
its policy.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the Motability scheme policy in relation to personalised plates. This says that 
the following criteria must be met:
- The number plate must be owned by the hirer (Mr S) or the hirers spouse / partner 
provided that they live at the same address as the hirer
- The details on the plate must relate to either the hirer (Mr S) or a partner of the 
hirer. The details of the plate cannot relate to any other individual, such as the 
nominated driver or a relative of the hirer
The rationale behind the policy is to ensure that the car is always used for Mr Ss sole benefit.
When it explained its decision not to allow Mr S to put the plate on the car, Motability said this 
was because the number plate wasnt owned by him and didnt relate to his name but to a 
named drivers name, and that there was a risk that the named driver could use the car for her 
own purposes.
Mr S has provided evidence which shows that the number plate is owned by him. So although 
Motability has said that the plate is owned by the named driver, I can see that this isnt the case. 
The named driver in this case is Mr Ss niece. Shes provided evidence to show that she lives 
with Mr S.
Ive thought about whether Mr Ss niece meets the criteria set out under the policy on 
personalised plates. She isnt the spouse of partner of Mr S. Nor is she the hirer. She is, in my 
view, best described as the main driver.
Ive thought about whether the number plate relates to Mr S. The number plate doesnt appear 
to relate to anyone in particular, insofar as it doesnt spell a name or a persons initials, or a 
word that could be readily associated with a particular person.
That said, theres no reason why the plate couldnt be said to relate to Mr S, if the details in fact 
mean something personal to him.
Motability has said that the details relate to the main driver. Ive looked at the name of the 
named driver and Ive looked at the plate. On balance, Im not persuaded that the details on the 
plate bear a clear and obvious reference to the named driver. Its a tenuous connection at best 
and I dont think a reasonable person would look at the plate and associate it with the main 
driver. I dont think, having considered the details on the plate, that there is any risk that the car 
could be used for the main drivers benefit, or that the plate would in some way prevent the car 
from being used for Mr Ss benefit.
I can see that it says on Motabilitys website under the heading Can I add a personalised 
number plate to my car that Motability state that this will be at its discretion. This suggests that 
Motability has discretion which it could choose to apply irrespective of its criteria.
In the circumstances, Im of the view that Motability should exercise its discretion and allow Mr 
S to transfer the plate onto the car.
Putting things right
Motability should allow Mr S to transfer the number plate onto his car.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Motability Operations Limited must allow Mr S 
to transfer the number plate onto the car adn mjust co-operate with DVLA in the transfer 
process.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman