DRN-3105567
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc didnt do enough to protect him from 
financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made a payment for around £5,200 on his Tesco Mastercard credit card in April 2019. 
At the time Mr C believed he was making a cryptocurrency investment through a broker (T) 
hed first discovered on social media. This turned out to be a scam and Mr Cs loss extends 
well beyond the payment made using his Tesco card, but this complaint is solely about this 
one payment. 
Mr C has referenced several codes of practice and parts of industry guidance to suggest 
why he thinks Tesco ought to have done more. Ive considered all of these, but Ill be 
keeping my findings to what I think is relevant to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Sometimes there can be spending on a card which might be indicative of either the card 
being compromised, or of the accountholder being in the process of being a victim of fraud. 
Whilst this payment was for a relatively large amount, it was within the available credit limit. 
Overall, I dont think there was any plausible reason why Tesco ought to have stopped the 
single payment that Mr C made on his credit card at the relevant time. 
Once Mr C reported to Tesco that his payment was made as the result of fraud, I can see 
that they considered a chargeback. But in these circumstances, Tesco are bound by the 
requirements of the scheme operators (Mastercard in this case) rules. The rules of the 
scheme are clear that Mastercard dont support chargeback rights where funds have been 
correctly credited to an account. The payment Mr C made went to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange C before presumably being sent on to T. The only potential route 
for success would be if the credits werent loaded onto the account. But the nature of Mr Cs 
claim is that this is a scam, not that funds werent correctly credited to an account. In these 
circumstances, given the relatively narrow scope for a successful chargeback under the 
Mastercard scheme, I think Tescos decision to not raise a chargeback was fair and 
reasonable. 
Our investigator also considered whether Tesco ought to have raised a claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an 
unbroken chain between the debtor (Mr C), creditor (Tesco) and the supplier (In this case 
the merchant T). And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of 
contract and or a misrepresentation between Mr C and T in relation to a contract that was 
funded by the Tesco credit card. 
But in this case, there is nothing to link the payment to T. It doesnt seem to be in dispute 
that the payment went to C which is what is shown on the credit card. And there is nothing 
conclusive to link C to T. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor, 
creditor supplier chain was unbroken. As such, I cant fairly criticise Tesco for not raising a 
claim under Section 75. 
Im sorry Mr C lost this money as the result of a scam. But Im not persuaded that there is a 
reasonable basis upon which I can tell Tesco to reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman