DRN-3513212
The complaint
Mr B complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr B with loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 February 
2015£3,000 24 months £229.49
2 March 2016 £4,810.47 24 months £381.90
When Mr B complained to 118 118 Money, it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. 
In brief summary, Mr B mainly said that the first loan was unaffordable as he was already in 
a financial mess taking out further loans to repay others and that his credit file would have 
shown the extent of his financial difficulty when the second loan was provided.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. After completing his investigation, he didnt 
think that 118 118 Money had done anything wrong when it provided the loans. 
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. He still felt that he shouldnt have been accepted 
for either of the loans The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
The loan purpose wasnt recorded for loan 1. When Mr B took out loan 2 this was used to 
repay the balance on loan 1 and provide him with some extra money which he told 118 118 
Money was intended for car purchase/repairs. 
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr B about his income and expenses 
before it agreed these loans. It said it completed industry standard verification checks to 
validate the information Mr B provided and it checked his credit file to understand his existing 
monthly credit commitments and credit history. For both loans, 118 118 Money recorded 
information showing that after his declared spending, including an amount to cover his 
existing credit commitments, the loan monthly repayments for both these loans looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr B. And I agree - on the figures gathered as part of the 
affordability assessment, it looked like Mr B shouldve been left with disposable income even 
after making all his monthly repayments.
Even so, 118 118 Money still needed to think about the bigger picture. The credit checks 118 
118 Money carried out for each of the loans showed that Mr B wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered and no significant signs of any serious money problems on his 
record. 
It looks like Mr B was paying more than the amounts hed declared to 118 118 Money to 
service his debt  but it makes no overall difference as the loans still shouldve been 
affordable for Mr B according to the income and expenditure information hed declared and 
the other information 118 118 Money saw.He had a number of active credit card accounts but these were all within their account limits 
and appeared to be managed well. And although his borrowing had gone up by the time he 
applied for loan 2, his overall reliance on credit didnt look excessive. There was evidence of 
some payment issues on a mail order account, but I dont think anything that 118 118 Money 
saw in its checks was enough to cause a responsible lender to think this amounted to 
evidence of serious ongoing money problems. 
It was evident that Mr B was making use of his overdraft at the bank from time to time, and 
his overdraft was bigger by the time he took out loan 2. But he was still well within the 
account limit  which was still the same. I dont think his overdraft usage shouldve caused 
118 118 Money to be unduly concerned or that this is a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint.  
I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr B seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other 
debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be 
fair reasons to decline a loan application. I dont think the overall amount of debt shown on 
Mr Bs credit checks was excessive having regard to his income or that anything else 
revealed in the credit checks 118 118 Money carried out was enough for me to say that a 
responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out more before lending or even that it 
should have refused either of these loan applications. 
It was fair for 118 118 Money to decide Mr Bs lending application based on the information it 
was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for 118 118 Money to provide these loans as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr B wouldnt be able to repay the 
loans in a sustainable way. The loans appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Bs finances or ask Mr B to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to 
send in his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what 
he had told the lender (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I accept that Mr Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, 
I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend these loans to Mr B. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr B in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
So for these reasons, Im not planning on upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ive taken into account what Mr B said about the way another complaint was dealt with. But 
each complaint is looked at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to be identical in 
every way and the outcome on each will depend on its own facts. Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on a different case 
doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr B but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. In case its useful to know, theres 
information about how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can 
provide contact details if Mr B gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Given that Ive not 
received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, 
I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman