DRN-2787435
The complaint
 Miss P complains Drover Limited (Drover) have unfairly applied charges at the end of her 
hire agreement.
 
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
Miss P brings a number of complaints about the manner in which Drover has treated her at 
the end of her hire agreement. These include:
1. it didnt reply to her request for their complaint policy.
2. it didnt tell her a final response had been issued.
3. it persistently ignored her requests to pay weekly.
4.  it didn't take her calls and sent threatening emails.
5.  it persistently sent emails on Saturday and Sunday evenings about police
involvement.
6. it refused to accept part payment.
7.  it didn't answer phone calls after her insurance was cancelled.
8. it ignored her request for a copy of the agreement.
9. it ignored her request for a copy of their collections policy.
10. it refused to give a clear outstanding balance after collection of the vehicle.
11. it didn't provide a full explanation about how her deposit would be used to
decrease the amount owed.
On 27 November 2018 Miss P took out a hire agreement with Drover. The agreement was 
extended in August 2019 until December 2019. The monthly payment was £230 for both 
agreements.
In June 2019, Miss P contacted Drover to explain she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Drover agreed to split the monthly payment into three payments of £100, £30 and £100 
respectively. Miss P made the first two payments and the final payment was reduced due to 
a retention bonus.
On 1 October 2019, Miss P contacted Drover again to ask if she could make weekly 
payments as this reflected the way she received her income. Miss P says she was very 
poorly treated during this telephone call but in the end, Drover agreed to weekly payments of 
£53 and one weekly payment of £18.
On 5 October 2019, Miss P complained to Drover about the telephone call. She explained 
she needed to pay weekly as this was how she received her income. She then made her 27 
October payment late on 5 November 2019. Miss P then didnt make any further payments.
On 3 December 2019, Drover issued a default notice. The notice explained the amount 
outstanding was £230 and it must be paid before 17 December 2019. The letter went onto 
say if payment wasnt received further action could be taken. It said the further action could 
be repossession of the car and early termination of the agreement.
Miss P contacted Drover to request a partial payment prior to 17 December with the 
remainder paid after. She also asked for copied of its complaint procedures and collections 
policy. Drover declined to accept this payment arrangement but emailed the policies 
requested.
On 17 December 2019, Drover informed Miss P her agreement had been terminated and 
asked that she contact their collections department. It also confirmed that her insurance had 
now ended and that driving the vehicle without insurance would be a criminal offence.
On 21 January 2020, Drover charged £75 to Miss Ps bank account as part of its early 
cancellation fee. It also withdrew £368 on 4 February 2020 as the remainder of the early 
cancellation fee as set-out in section 11 of the agreement.
On 24 January 2020, Miss P made a further complaint to Drover. She was unhappy about 
the collection charges she received after the vehicle was returned and the early
termination charges. Drover replied to this complaint but didn't provide referral rights to
this service.
On 10 February 2020, Miss P responded. She said she had been rushed into returning he 
car and explained the impact the collection of the car has on her family.
On 17 February 2020, Miss P referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Miss P and upheld her complaint in part. He 
understood the early cancellation fees had already been refunded by Drover as a gesture of 
goodwill. He looked at the damages and didnt find all of them were outside of the BVRLA 
guidelines and so he directed Drover as to which he felt were chargeable and which were 
not. He asked Drover to revaluate the final invoice based on his findings. He asked Drover to 
continue not to charge the early cancelation fees. He also felt Drover could have dealt with 
Miss P in a more sympathetic manner and so he awarded £100 in recognition of this.
Drover accepted the investigators findings in part. It said it would continue to waive the early 
cancellation fee and pay £100 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused but it didnt 
agree with the damage breakdown.
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators view either. She refutes there was any damage to 
the car when she returned it. She asks for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I reached a slightly different outcome to that of our investigator.
Miss P acquired the car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result this 
service can look into complaints about it. 
I said theres no dispute here that Drover could have handled things better. I think the 
investigator has clearly explained the reasons for this in his view and so I dont intend to 
cover this again as Drover has accepted it could have been more sympathetic to Miss Ps 
position and in failing to do so it caused Miss P trouble and upset for which I intend to make 
an award.
I found the key issues that remain in dispute are the damage charges, the repossession of 
the car and the failure to allow Miss P to make weekly payments.
I considered Miss Ps request to make weekly payments. I appreciate that Miss Ps financial 
position and the way in which she receives her income would have made it easier for her to 
make weekly payments. But when she signed the agreement it was to make monthly payments. Although Drover tried to accommodate her needs when she fell into arrears, it 
made it clear that this was a one-off arrangement and it couldnt accept weekly payments on 
an ongoing basis.
I explained it isnt my role to direct a business about its policies and procedures. Drover set 
out the terms of the agreement at the start and Miss P agreed to those terms. Further, 
having listened to the call between Miss P and the Drover representative, he did make 
suggestions on how Miss P could work around the payment issue. He suggested Miss P 
could make the weekly payments into an account and then pay Drover on the due monthly 
date. But Miss P wasnt willing to accommodate that suggestion. So, with regard to Miss P 
wanting to amend the terms of the agreement and pay weekly I said I cant fairly say Drover 
did anything wrong in explaining its systems couldnt accommodate weekly payments on an 
ongoing basis and holding Miss P to the payment terms of the agreement.
I went on to consider Drovers decision to repossess the car. At the point when Miss P 
offered to make a partial payment, she was already over two weeks behind. Miss P said that 
she could make the rest of the payment on the 21 December 2019. This was after the date 
of collection and so a further payment of £230 would have been due six days later. At this 
point it was clear Miss P was in financial difficulty. Drover has an obligation to ensure that it 
is not putting its customer into further financial hardship and so staying in the agreement 
could have caused further financial stress for Miss P.
I said I understood Miss P has complained about the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the car being repossessed, especially as she relies on the car to transport her son. But Miss 
P was in arrears and wasnt in a position to bring the account up to date. She had several 
weeks to make other arrangements and Drover had been clear about when the car would be 
collected. So, I couldnt agree Drover acted unfairly or unreasonably in collecting the car. 
When the car was collected Miss Ps responsibility was to return the car in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement. This includes a clause requiring the car to be in 
good condition, fair wear and tear excepted. 
When considering fair wear and tear I have taken account of the industry guidelines. The 
guidelines for what are considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end 
of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
I looked closely at the photographic evidence provided by Drover and I appreciated Miss P 
had disputed all the damages. She relied on the collection report which indicated there was 
no damage at all the car. But this is in contrast with the inspection report completed when 
Miss P took out the agreement. This report indicated there was previous damage to the car 
and so I said I dont think the collection report can be relied upon when comparing it to the 
independent garage reports I have seen.
There are a significant number of photographs attached to the Envoy damage report. I 
looked carefully at each photograph and detailed the damage and my assessment of 
whether it falls in or outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Photographs 1-5 are either of the previous damage and this is indicated accordingly or 
general photographs of the front and rear of the car and as such I have made no further 
comment as these are clearly not chargeable.
Photograph 6 is of a scratch although the exact location isnt clear. The BVRLA guidance 
says; scratches under 25mm can be considered wear and tear and are not chargeable, 
provided the paint surface isnt broken. This photograph clearly shows the paint surface is 
broken and so is chargeable.Photograph 7  the offside door vinyl. There is not enough evidence to show that this falls 
outside the BVRLA guidelines, this is not chargeable.
Photograph 8  the mirror. The mirror is smashed and so this damage is chargeable.
Photograph 9  the offside mirror casing. There is a lot of reflection in this photograph and 
no measurement and so I said Im not able to establish if this falls outside of the BVRLA 
guidelines and as such this damage is not chargeable.
Photographs 10 & 11  the wheel coverings. The BVRLA fair wear and tear guide says; 
"Scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels 
are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy is not acceptable
Im not able to establish the damage to the wheel coverings on the trim exceeds 50mm and 
as such I said I dont agree this damage is chargeable.
Photographs 12  dent. About dents the BVRLA fair wear and tear guide says; dents under 
15mm can be considered wear and tear and are not chargeable, provided the paint surface 
isnt broken. I said I dont agree this falls outside of the fair wear and tear and as such isnt 
chargeable.
Photograph  13 scratches. There are multiple small scratches above the wheel base. But 
Im not able to assess from the photographs whether they exceed the permitted 25mm or 
whether the scratch is down to the primer as the photograph is grainy. As such I said I dont 
agree this damage is chargeable.
Photograph 14 & 15  damage to the wheel coverings. Again, I said I dont agree the scuffs 
exceed 50mm and as there is no measurement to determine otherwise this damage doesnt 
appear to fall outside fair wear and tear and such isnt chargeable.
Photograph 16  mirror casing. This photograph does appear to show a scratch/gouge 
revealing the primer and as such is chargeable.
Photograph 17  dent. I said there is no visible dent in the photo and no way to assess if it 
falls outside of the BVRLA guidelines, so this is not chargeable.
Photograph 18  scratch. There is no measurement tool used in this photograph but in my 
view the scratches exceed 25mm and as such fall outside the BVRLA guidelines and is 
chargeable.
Photograph 19  scratch on rear bumper. Again, no measurement tool has been used, I said 
in my view the scratch is below 25mm, but the primer is showing and as such the damage is 
chargeable.
In my view Drover is entitled to charge for damages to:
The scratch in photograph 6
The mirror in photograph 8
The mirror casing in photograph 16
The scratches in photograph 18
The bumper scratch in photograph 19As already agreed, it should not charge the early termination fees of £679.66
In my provisional decision I said I intend to direct Drover Limited to:
Provide a revised invoice for the damage indicated above
Not make any charge for the early termination fees £679.66
Pay £100 for the trouble and upset to Miss P
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
Drover accepted my findings but pointed out the early termination fees were in fact £368 and 
had already been refunded to Miss P.
Miss P required some further time to consider my findings but ultimately, she didnt agree the 
compensation suggested was a fair reflection of the trouble and upset this matter had 
caused.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I thank both parties for their submissions. Ive looked at all the information from both parties 
afresh. Having done so, I havent seen any new evidence that would lead me to change my 
view from that of my earlier provisional decision. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I appreciate Miss P has spent a lot of time dealing with the details of this complaint and I 
accept this has caused her trouble and upset. There has been a great deal of 
correspondence and communication between the parties over the term of this agreement.
I have pointed out that Drover could have handled things better but, in my view,, it did make 
efforts to try and accommodate Miss P and her circumstances but I also accept it isnt in a 
position to change its policies and procedures and I am not I a position to direct it to do so.
Drover has accepted my findings and agreed to reduce the balance from £1317.56 to 
£728.64 and has refunded the £368 early termination fees. It has agreed to pay £100 for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused. I find this a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I should point out my decision, should Miss P choose not to accept it, does not prohibit her 
from pursuing this matter in the courts should she wish to do so.My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I direct Drover Limited to:
Provide a revised invoice for the damage indicated above
Not make any charge for the early termination fees 
Pay £100 for the trouble and upset to Miss P
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman