DRN-3800732
The complaint
Ms G complains about the charge that ReAssure Limited will apply if she transfers her 
pension to another provider. She says it appears that ReAssure Limited has already taken 
the charge. Ms G also thinks the recorded retirement date on her pension of 60 is incorrect. 
And Ms G is unhappy with the amount of time it has taken ReAssure Limited to respond to 
her queries.
What happened
In brief, Ms G took out her personal pension in 1989 through an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA). At that time it was held with another well-known pension provider. 
When Ms G took out the pension plan legislation allowed her to take benefits from it age 50. 
However that subsequently changed, and the earliest age that she is able to take benefits 
from it is 55. 
Ms G provided copies of the original application form that was completed when she took the 
plan out. This recorded a retirement age of 60. Ms G subsequently became unhappy with 
the plan and wanted to switch it to another provider. However ReAssure told her that there 
would be a charge if she switched her pension before age 60. 
Ms G wasnt happy about this and complained to ReAssure. She subsequently referred the 
matter to us. One of our investigators considered her complaint. He explained that although 
Ms G was now able to take the benefits from age 55, her pension was still subject to its 
original terms and conditions. He said when Ms G originally applied for the plan she was 
asked at what age she wanted to take the benefits. And the application form had been 
completed to say age 60. So the pension had been set up with a selected retirement age of 
60. 
The investigator said this was relevant because if Ms G wanted to transfer to another 
pension provider before aged 60 she would have to pay the relevant charge. The 
investigator referred to the screenshots of Ms Gs pension value that she had provided. He 
said ReAssure had confirmed that the two figures provided showed the full value of the 
pension and its value if it was transferred. And that if Ms G stayed with ReAssure until age 
60 there wouldnt be a charge applied and she would receive the higher value. 
The investigator acknowledged that the wording that went with the values wasnt clear; it 
said, Your current value included the amount deducted from your policy for taking the 
money early. But he said ReAssure had confirmed to him that no charge had been applied 
to the plan; it would only be charged if Ms G transferred from the plan before age 60. And 
the charge was limited to a 1% maximum.
The investigator referred to the plans term and conditions. These included:
if benefit becomes payable before your pension date for any other reason (including a 
transfer out in accordance with section 1 of benefit before payment of pension on page 13), 
the amount calculated as described above will be subject to the following adjustments:
(i) The bid price of any initial units then credited will be reduced in accordance with the
relevant table of adjustment factors published by [the pension provider] from time to time
(ii) If the original basis of allocation of units was dependant on contributions being left in the
scheme for a given period, a reduction may be made where that period has not been 
completed.
The investigator said whilst he understood Ms Gs frustration that she would be charged if 
she wanted to transfer her pension before aged 60, he didnt think ReAssure was doing 
anything wrong by applying the original terms and conditions of the plan.
The investigator explained that the pension had been taken out through an IFA. So it was 
the IFA that was responsible for the advice given, and ReAssure merely processed the 
application as it was received from the IFA. He said although the pension had originally been 
held with another pension provider its business had subsequently been transferred to 
ReAssure. However he said the pension was essentially still the same plan, and subject to 
the same terms and conditions as applied from the outset. 
The investigator said that ReAssure had offered to pay Ms G £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays it was responsible for. The investigator said he thought 
ReAssure were slow in responding to Ms Gs queries about the transfer charge and 
confirming whether it had already been deducted. However he thought overall the £200 
ReAssure had offered was fair and in line with awards made by the Ombudsman Service.
Ms G didnt accept the investigators assessment. She said, in summary, that she had been 
badly let down by the people she trusted and who shed paid to deal with her pension. She 
said shed wanted to take out a pension with another pension provider, but the adviser got 
more commission from the pension provider selected. She said she got passed to five 
different companies who all got paid commission to look after her pension, but none of them 
did. 
Ms G said the pension paperwork had been completed incorrectly by an unknown person 
when it was set up. And she had now been told that if she wanted to move the pension away 
from a company that she never asked it to go to, she must pay to transfer it. She said 
although the retirement age had been changed by the government she still couldnt access 
her money until age 60. 
Ms G said all the problems and errors had made her ill and ReAssure were aware of how 
badly shed been treated. She had made lots of phone calls and sent lots of e-mails. 
ReAssure had also sent her letters which she hadnt received. Ms G said she had heard a lot 
of worrying stories about ReAssure. And that it had taken some members with pensions 
from the same original pension provider months and even years to access their money. Ms 
G said she was very worried that if she left the pension with ReAssure they wouldnt let her 
have the money at age 60. She said she didnt want compensation  she just wanted to 
move her pension without charge. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for the same 
reasons. 
It seems to me that Ms G has got some concerns that go back several years both at the time that she took out the plan and also the lack of service/advice she had from then on, despite 
paying commission to firms for it. However those issues arent the responsibility of 
ReAssure, but rather are with the IFA and the firms that Ms G was subsequently passed on 
to. 
I think the main issue with ReAssure is the charge applied if Ms G transfers away from the 
plan before aged 60. Like the investigator, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the 
plan provide for ReAssure to apply a charge. In my experience this type of charge isnt 
unusual for this type of pension taken out in the late 1980s. So whilst every plan is different, 
Ms G may have had to pay a similar charge if shed taken out a plan with a different pension 
provider. The charge was £646 in April 2022, and is limited to a maximum of 1% of the value 
of the plan. 
Ms G has said that she cant access her money until aged 60. However my understanding is 
that Ms G can take her pension anytime after aged 55  albeit she will likely still have to pay 
a charge for taking it if thats before age 60. Ms G is also worried about the problems she 
might have when she takes the pension at age 60. Whist clearly I cannot know what will 
happen at that time, the majority of people dont have problems when taking their pension  
obviously this doesnt get publicity because it is as it should be.
As noted by the investigator, ReAssure has taken some time responding to Ms Gs queries. 
But Ms Gs main concern appears to be about the charge applying if she wants to transfer 
her pension. And for the reasons explained by the investigator and above, Im satisfied its 
legitimately able to apply that charge if Ms G transfers away from ReAssure before aged 60. 
So I dont think its done anything wrong in that regard.
my final decision
ReAssure Limited has offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused to Ms G. I 
think that is fair in the particular circumstances. I therefore order ReAssure Limited to pay  
Ms G £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman