DRN-3896481
The complaint
H complains about delays and poor customer service when trying to change a mandate on 
its business account with TSB Bank plc. 
H is being represented by its secretary who Ill refer to as T.  
What happened
T sent a mandate amendment form to TSB but he said it took too long to action. T also 
complained about poor advice given by TSB and issues when logging a complaint. 
TSB looked into the complaint and upheld it. It said the delay in amending the mandate was 
due to T not signing the correct place on the form several times. TSB went on to offer H 
£100 compensation for conflicting information T had been given by its branch. H didnt agree 
with the amount of compensation, so it brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt find H had suffered any losses due to 
the complaint. Our investigator went on to say that as H is the eligible complainant, T 
couldnt claim any personal trouble and upset payments as the representative of H. 
T responded to the investigators view and disagreed with their findings. T said he had 
personal involvement in the complaint as well as corporate. Our investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change their view. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
H sent the completed mandate form back to TSB and it was received on 11 March 2022. 
TSB said the mandate wasnt completed correctly and it was returned to H to be corrected 
and was then received back on 04 April 2022. By 12 May 2022 the changes were actioned, 
and Im satisfied this was done is a reasonable amount of time.  
T says that when he visited a TSB branch, he was given incorrect information, and he should 
be compensated for this. TSB have awarded £100, but T thinks this should be increased for 
the overall service he received. 
H is the eligible complainant here, who has the required relationship with the business  and 
we can only make awards to eligible complainants. 
H is a legal entity separate to the people who run it. So, we cant compensate the directors, 
secretaries, or shareholders personally, or pay the company for any distress theyve incurred 
personally. The legal entity cant experience distress, or pain and suffering. Instead, the 
impact will usually have financial, operational, or reputational implications.
T is acting as a representative of H, so although I appreciate, he may have suffered trouble 
and upset personally, he isnt bringing a complaint to our service in his personal capacity. 
Our investigator asked H and T if the business suffered any losses due to the delay in 
getting the mandate changed or the advice in the branch, and none were supplied. So, on 
that basis Im satisfied the business doesnt need to do any more. 
T originally said that the business has suffered marginally, but when our investigator asked 
for more information about any losses or inconvenience, T indicated that although there 
were delays with being able to use the account, the business carried on functioning. 
In summary, having reviewed all the information provided by both parties, I havent found 
any evidence to suggest that H has suffered any financial loss or inconvenience as a result 
of TSBs handling of the mandate change. Therefore, I wont be asking TSB to do anything 
further in this regard.
I appreciate H and T will be unhappy with my decision, and Im not doubting some of the 
issues T says he has had, I just simply cant investigate or make an award for T in a 
personal capacity. 
TSB have paid H £100 compensation. My decision doesnt impact the payment thats 
already been made.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman