DRN-3368856
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc has unfairly turned down his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
What happened
Mr M and his partner purchased a timeshare overseas at a holiday resort (the Resort) in 
July 2016. The nature of his agreement was that he purchased points to enable him to book 
to stay at the Resort in Week 34.
The following year, Mr M contacted the Resort to confirm the exact date of arrival for his 
purchased week and found he had purchased an unsuitable week.
Mr M raised a claim with Barclays under s.75 CCA for misrepresentation. Although the 
timeshare was taken out by Mr M and his wife, as the card used to pay the deposit was in 
his name, he made the complaint to Barclays. He said he and his wife were verbally told he 
was purchasing Week 34, which fell on 6 August in 2016, and would be around the same 
time every year. But when he tried to book his accommodation, he learned the week actually 
fell three weeks later, starting 27 August 2017.
Mr M said he raised a complaint with the Resort and, shortly after, also raised a claim with 
Barclays. Ultimately, Barclays disagreed with the argument that there had been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. As the parties were unable to reach an agreement, 
Mr M complained to our service.
Our investigator thought the Resort had misrepresented the timing of the week purchased 
and said Barclays should pay the claim. Barclays disagreed, but suggested it would be 
willing to pay the difference if Mr M was able to provide it with a quote to change the week to 
an earlier one. Mr M said he wouldnt accept this as a fair outcome to his claim as he no 
longer wished to deal with the Resort as he felt it was dishonest and he thought Barclays 
was trying to avoid its responsibilities.
Our investigator did not change her opinion, and as Barclays did not agree with our 
investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Having read all of the available evidence and arguments, I came to a different conclusion to 
our investigator and I did not think this complaint should be upheld.
My provisional findings
I noted that Mr M brought a claim for a full refund of his timeshare purchase on the basis that 
the timing of Week 34 was verbally misrepresented by the Resorts sales agent to fall earlier 
in the month of August than in actuality. He said that, but for this misrepresentation, he 
would not have agreed to purchase the timeshare as he has limited availability due to work 
commitments and could not have taken holidays during Week 34.
When Mr M first approached Barclays he gave his version of events. The timeshare was 
bought on 27 July 2016 and Mr M said he was told by the representative from the Resort 
that the week purchased in that year was from the end of next week. In 2016 that would 
have started on the weekend of 6 August and Mr M said that he confirmed this was the case. 
But when he came to use the timeshare the following year he was told Week 34 started on 
27 August in 2017 and 26 August in 2018. Mr M said these dates werent set out in the 
paperwork and the agreement only refers to Week 34. Mr M raised his concerns with the 
Resort, but he says he was told they couldnt change his week or terminate the agreement.
Later, when Mr M brought his complaint to our service, he explained that he spoke with two 
sales representatives of the Resort, who both confirmed the dates for Week 34 were suitable 
before he signed the timeshare agreement. Mr M said he had an in-depth conversation 
about his job and why only some weeks would work for him. It was after this conversation 
that he agreed to take out the timeshare.
I gave some thought to the version of events described by Mr M. He explained that his 
availability is limited by the demands of his job and I didnt think he would have knowingly 
purchased a timeshare week that he couldnt have used. I saw information provided by Mr M 
that showed he needed to work on 23rd and 24th August 2017 and 22nd and 23rd August 
2018, which were in the weeks immediately preceding his holiday week. I accepted that the 
demands of his job meant Week 34 wasnt suitable for him as he also normally had to work 
the following week too.
Mr M had been clear and consistent throughout his claim and had provided evidence that 
shows he first complained to the Resort in the first half of 2017, which would fit with his 
memories of when he first discovered the week booked wasnt suitable for him. So it 
appeared he first complained shortly after he realised something had gone wrong.
However, I also thought about the representation that Mr M said were made to him by the 
sales representatives of the Resort. He said he was told Week 34 started from the end of 
next week and when Mr M asked if that was the 6 August, he said he was told it was. 
Mr Ms case was that he relied on this representation and that it was untrue.
I saw the agreement between the Resort and Mr M. It simply said, under the description of 
the timeshare, Week/Unit(s) 34/000344 Sunday to Sunday. I saw a copy of the terms 
and conditions attached to the purchase agreement. They were hard to read, but it appeared 
to say Unit Week No. 1 is the seven (7) days commencing on the first Saturday in each 
year. Unit Week No. 2 is the seven (7) days succeeding.
I thought the agreement clearly set out how the weeks were to be worked out and, having 
looked at a calendar, it was clear that Week 34 would always fall within the last two weeks in 
August. I also saw from the Resort that Week 34 falls in Prime Season, whereas the earlier 
weeks in August fall within Peak Season, which was around $6,000 more expensive to buy 
at the outset. On the face of it, I thought it was unlikely that a representative would make the 
representation that Mr M alleged, given that the dates that any given week falls within are 
easily verifiable and Mr M would have needed to buy a different product to be able to stay on 
the dates he needed.
Although Mr M had been clear in his recollections of what was said, I was mindful that I only 
had evidence of what was said from Mr M, not from the Resort. There was no evidence to 
corroborate what Mr M said happened and the only documentation from the time of sale  
the contract  explained that Week 34 was on a different date. I also didnt have any 
evidence from Mr M as to why he decided to buy a timeshare in Week 34 over any other available week or any of his other recollections around the sales process that would lend 
weight to his allegation of misrepresentation.
For the reasons given above, therefore, and on balance, I didnt think I could say it was more 
likely than not (given the particular circumstances of this complaint) that Week 34 was 
misrepresented. But I said that, even if I did think that such a misrepresentation was made, I 
thought Barclays offer to pay to move Mr Ms week to an earlier one would have been fair. I 
said that as when a claim, such as Mr Ms, is brought for a misrepresentation the court has 
the power to order either the rescission of the underlying agreement or to order damages in 
lieu of rescission.
Here, Mr Ms complaint was about the week in which he could take holidays. Barclays 
offered to pay the difference so that Mr M could buy more points and therefore move the 
date of his timeshare week to one that was suitable for him, which would deal with the actual 
complaint that was brought. I thought that would be a fair and proportionate outcome to his 
claim. I understood that Mr M was minded not to accept the offer, noting that he wouldnt 
have wanted to buy a more expensive timeshare, that he didnt want to continue a 
relationship with the Resort, whom he considers to be dishonest, and that he felt Barclays 
were trying to get out of their responsibilities under s.75 CCA. He also said the Resort would 
be unable to give him an upgrade price unless he went to the Resort himself in person. But I 
thought Barclays offer would have adequately answered the specific complaint brought. 
However, as Mr M had indicated that he doesnt wish to accept the offer, I didnt propose to 
direct Barclays to do anything further.
Barclays responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision. It also said that interest 
had been suspended on Mr Ms account whilst this dispute was with our service, but that it 
proposed to start charging interest again if I issued a final decision along the same lines.
Mr M responded to say he disagreed with my provisional decision and asked me to 
reconsider my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, I am required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) Law and regulations;
(b) Regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) Codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr M has set out in some length why he disagrees with my findings on what I thought was 
most likely to have happened. Ive carefully considered everything he has said, but having 
done so, Ive not changed my mind from my provisional decision. I will explain my reasons, but in doing so I wont comment on every point Mr M has made. But Id like to assure him I 
have thought about everything hes said.
The claim that Mr M has brought has been made under s.75 CCA. Under that provision 
Barclays can be held jointly liable for misrepresentations made by the Resort in certain 
circumstances. I explained in my provisional decision that I did not find, based on the 
evidence available, that it was more likely than not that the Resort made the alleged 
misrepresentations about Week 34. In summary, based on Mr Ms recollections alongside 
the available documentary evidence, I didnt think there was enough for me to say it was 
more likely than not that the alleged representations were made.
Thinking about one part of the evidence, in my provisional decision I said:
However, I have also thought about the representation that Mr M says was made to 
him by the sales representatives of the Resort. He says that he was told Week 34 
started from the end of next week and when Mr M asked if that was the 6 August, 
he says he was told it was. This is the representation that Mr M says he relied on and 
was untrue.
In response Mr M has said:
you make reference to our statement that we were told that week 34 was the end 
of next week. This is not correct. At no point have we said it was described as the 
end of next week, but rather the week after next. This description was used 
consistently and repeatedly by the Sales Representative ([RB]) and the Sales 
Manager ([PB])
I have seen a form filled in my Mr M when he first made a claim to Barclays titled 
Cardholder Dispute Form. It is a form sent to customers for them to set out their claims 
against Barclays. Mr M handwrote on the form, including his name and card details. There is 
a part titled DISPUTE DETAILS which reads:
ON 27-7-2016 WE PURCHASED TIMESHARE POINTS AT [THE RESORT]. AT 
THE POINT OF SALE THE SALES REPRESENTATIVE INFORMED US THAT THE 
WEEK THAT WE WERE PURCHASING WAS FROM THE END OF NEXT WEEK. 
WE CLARIFIED THIS AS MEANING THE WEEKEND OF 6TH AUGUST 2010. THIS 
WAS ALL VERBAL COMMUNICATION (emphasis my own)
So I am satisfied that in bringing his claim, Mr M did originally say he was told Week 34 was 
the end of next week and not the week after next. On the face of it, the difference 
between these two phrases may be minimal, however I think in this claim the difference is 
important.
Mr Ms claim is based on a very specific verbal representation he says was made. The 
representation is in opposition to what is set out in the contractual documentation and the 
only evidence supporting Mr Ms claim is his own recollections. I accept it is not likely Mr M 
would have remembered the precise language used, given that any representation was 
made orally and he first complained several months later. But in response to my provisional 
decision, Mr M says that two named people used a specific phrase that is different to what 
he originally said to Barclays. So I am not certain that Mr Ms recollections are as strong as 
he believes.
In my provisional decision I noted that the copy of the terms and conditions were hard to 
read. Mr M says this shows a lack of certainty and clarity, and contradictions mean the 
documents should not be relied upon. Having looked at the terms and conditions again, I think the important part working out when the holidays in Week 34 were to take place is 
sufficiently clear, so I think it is fair to rely on them for this purpose. In any event, the 
documents tally with what Mr M says he was told when he came to book a holiday in 2017.
Mr M has pointed out the he did not have a calendar available to him at the point of sale to 
work out precisely when Week 34 fell as set out in the documentation. I accept that Mr M 
might not have tried to work out the dates for himself, but I think it is important that his 
allegation is that he was told something that was in direct conflict with the written terms. And, 
based on what Ive seen, I think that is unlikely.
Mr M says that it is not his fault that the Resort has not supplied its own evidence of what 
was said and he also says that this shows that Barclays hasnt properly investigated the 
complaint. Of course I accept that Mr M cant control what information and evidence a third 
party provides. But, as noted above, I do have concerns with Mr Ms recollections of what 
was said to him and there is nothing in the information available to corroborate his claim. So 
based on all of the evidence, I am still of the view that I dont think Mr Ms claim is made out. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Mr M knowingly bought a holiday product he could 
not use, but I also dont think the Resort made false representations to him about that 
product.
Mr M says that Barclays did not make the offer I referred to in my provisional decision. 
Barclays responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision, so I think it did make such 
an offer. But as Mr M indicated he doesnt wish to accept it, I make no further comment on it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman