DRN-3719884
The complaint
Mr B complains Phoenix Life Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to the benefits from 
his pension plan, leading to a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr B had a longstanding private income pension plan with Hill Samuel (policy **57U), which 
was later Abbey Life and then Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix). Phoenix is responsible for 
answering the complaint, so Ill just refer to Phoenix in the decision. 
Mr Bs selected retirement date was his 65th birthday in January 2012. In anticipation of his 
retirement Phoenix says it sent Mr B retirement packs in July 2011 and October 2011, which 
advised him of his options. In early 2012 when Mr B had turned 65, Phoenix sent him 
reminders about taking his benefits. These valued plan **57U at just over £20,616 and 
explained that at his retirement date his funds would be used to purchase an annuity, to pay 
him an income for life. Phoenix chased Mr B several times for responses, and in February 
2012 it gave Mr B the option of amending his retirement age to 66. In March 2012 Phoenix 
wrote to Mr B to say in line with the policy terms, the funds had been used to purchase a 
single life, level annuity with a five-year guarantee. But as Phoenix hadnt heard from Mr B 
his annuity payments were being paid to a holding account. In December 2014 Phoenix 
wrote to remind Mr B his annuity payments were being held in a holding account. Phoenix 
says it didnt receive a reply. 
In early 2021 Mr B contacted Phoenix about his pension plan. Phoenix sent Mr B statements 
covering the period 2011-12 to 2019-20 which suggested policy **57U had remained 
invested and was currently valued at just under £35,535. Phoenix explained those had been 
sent in error as the policy had been disinvested since January 2012. Mr B complained that 
Phoenix hadnt made more effort to contact him, as hed always lived at the same address. 
He was unhappy his funds had been left uninvested for more than ten years, causing him a 
financial loss. He thought he should receive the higher valuation plus compensation.
Phoenix apologised but couldnt agree it hadnt contacted Mr B about taking his benefits. It 
said the correspondence had made clear if Phoenix didnt hear from Mr B, his policy funds 
would be used to purchase an annuity, in line with the terms of his plan. It said its records 
showed Mr B had been in contact through 2011 but hadnt confirmed his requirements 
before the annuity was purchased. And since then the monthly instalments had been held in 
Phoenixs holding account pending Mr B getting in touch. 
However Phoenix offered to reverse the annuity purchase, and permit Mr B to take his 
benefits by way of an uncrystallised pension funds lump sum (UFPLS). Mr B chose this 
option and in May 2021 Phoenix paid him just over £16,124, net of tax. It also sent him £150 
in respect of the trouble and upset the incorrect statements had caused. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service in September 2021. He said he didnt wish to 
accept the option of taking a UFPLS and wanted the annuity to be reinstated. Our 
investigator asked Phoenix if this was possible and was told the annuity had been reversed 
at Mr Bs request, and the UFPLS had already been paid to him in May 2021. Mr B said he 
only withdrew his funds as he didnt trust Phoenix anymore. And it shouldnt have 
disinvested his funds in 2012, so it should honour the higher policy value. 
On reviewing the correspondence Phoenix had sent Mr B since 2011, our investigator was 
satisfied Phoenix had done enough to try and make contact with Mr B. And he felt the £150 
Phoenix had paid him was fair..
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why.
Mr B says he had a number of policies with Phoenix, and that two had the same number. 
The information on the file refers to policy ending **57U, until the funds were used to 
purchase an annuity, policy number ending **48M. 
Phoenix has provided a copy of the terms and conditions document relevant to Mr Bs Hill 
Samuel policy ending **57U. Term C2 states that for protected and non-protected rights, at 
vesting date the policy will be used to purchase an annuity, and if selected, a lump sum. 
Prior to pension freedoms legislation in 2015 an annuity was the only way retirement 
benefits could be taken. So I think from the outset of the policy, Mr B was made aware that 
at retirement his funds would be used to purchase an annuity.
So Ive then looked at whether I think Phoenix did enough to make contact with Mr B when 
he approached retirement age. Im aware Mr B doesnt accept Phoenix sent him letters to 
explain his options and ask how he wished to take his benefits. Phoenix says it sent wake-
up letters to Mr B in July and October 2011, six months and then three months prior to 
retirement. Ive not seen those letters. But I have seen copies of four letters Phoenix sent to 
Mr B in February, March, and April 2012. I can see the letter address is the one where Mr B 
still lives and that he provided to this service. Phoenixs records show Mr B called them on 
20 March 2012 resulting in them sending the letter dated 26 March 2012, which included a 
retirement benefits options questionnaire and annuity payment form.
Its possible for letters to go missing in the postal system, but it would be unusual for that to 
happen so many times to one customer. So I think its most likely at least some of the 
correspondence reached Mr B, and as it seems he had telephoned Phoenix, hed be waiting 
for them to send him the necessary forms
As Phoenix received no response from Mr B, his funds were disinvested at his normal 
retirement date in January 2012, and according to the policy terms, used to purchase an 
annuity. As Mr B hadnt indicated his requirements, Phoenix wrote to Mr B on 8 March 2012 
to explain his entire fund had been used to purchase a single life, level annuity with a five-
year guarantee. And that it was now too late for Mr B to change the basis upon which the 
annuity had been arranged. As it didnt have Mr Bs bank details the annuity was being paid 
to a holding account, and that Mr B should call to enable the annuity to be paid to him. So 
even if Mr B didnt receive all the letters, Im satisfied Phoenix gave him ample time to make 
his choice, and it reasonably made clear to Mr B that if he didnt make his requirements 
known or exercise his right to shop around (the open market option), his funds would be 
used to purchase an annuity which then couldnt be reversed.Phoenixs error was made in March 2021 when it erroneously sent Mr B copies of annual 
statements for the period 2011-12 to 2019-20 showing his fund had remained invested past 
his 65th birthday. When in fact the funds had been disinvested and used to purchase an 
annuity. While Phoenix clearly provided Mr B with incorrect information, Im not going to 
require it to honour the incorrect policy valuation. As the role of this service is to put Mr B in 
the position hed be in if Phoenix hadnt made that error, not to enable him to benefit from 
the higher policy value which he was never entitled to. So to resolve the complaint we would 
normally say Phoenix should pay Mr B the missing annuity payments which had been paid 
into its own holding account since 2012, and ensure the annuity was set up so that hed 
continue to receive the appropriate income for life.
An annuity provides a safe although inflexible means of taking retirement benefits, as the 
firm guarantees to make payments for the whole of the policy-holders life, regardless of how 
long that is. But since 2015 consumers are no longer restricted to taking their pension 
benefits as an annuity, due to Pension freedoms legislation. So to resolve his complaint, 
Phoenix offered Mr B the option of taking his whole fund as a cash lump sum (UFPLS). This 
enabled him to take 25% of the 2012 policy value tax-free, giving him a lump sum after tax of 
£16,124. Mr B decided to take the UFPLS, which means he hasnt suffered a financial loss, 
and has been offered an option he wouldnt have been entitled to in 2012. 
Mr B was still understandably dissatisfied that Phoenix had misled him by providing 
erroneous statements purporting to show his funds remained invested after 2012 when that 
wasnt the case. But I think the £150 it has offered is sufficient to reflect the impact of its 
error. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, as the £150 compensation already paid by Phoenix Life Limited 
is sufficient in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman