DRN-3540424
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc charged him a fee for a valuation of his property but 
didnt give him a copy of the report. He says a member of HSBCs staff was rude, 
unprofessional and unhelpful. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with HSBC. He wanted to remove a strip of land from the title. HSBC 
said it would need a valuation of the property as a whole and without the strip of land. 
The valuations were carried out in January 2021. The valuer gave the property a zero 
valuation (with and without the land Mr B wanted to remove) due to flood risk. 
Mr B called HSBC in February 2022 to ask for a copy of the valuation report. He disagrees 
with HSBCs policy not to send this to customers. He says he was wrongly charged a fee for 
the report and was out of pocket for 12 months until this was refunded. 
Mr B said the attitude of the member of staff he spoke to was disgraceful and she shouted 
and talked over him. Mr B says this has caused an enormous amount of frustration when 
HSBC was aware of his difficult circumstances.
Our investigator said HSBC had explained to Mr B that its policy was not to send valuation 
reports to customers. She said HSBC hadnt been rude or unprofessional during the call. 
HSBC refunded the fee and agreed as an exception to provide a copy of the valuation 
report. Our investigator said it didnt need to do more. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he was told he shouldnt have been charged a fee at all. He said 
the member of staff he spoke to gave him incorrect and inconsistent information, wouldnt let 
him speak and spoke over him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC instructed a surveyor to value Mr Bs property in January 2021. 
Mr B called HSBC on 7 February 2022. Mr B said a valuation had been carried out at his 
expense and the valuer had given a value of zero. He said he needed that document. 
The member of staff said it wasnt HSBCs policy to provide valuation reports to customers 
and she couldnt send a copy to him. Mr B didnt agree and asked to raise a complaint. 
HSBC sent several final responses over the following three days. One of these said Mr B 
was wrongly charged for the valuation report, which was being refunded back to him. It 
continued with this in mind I've attached this report for you as an exception.
HSBC didnt agree that the staff member had shouted, and said shed given Mr B correct 
information in an appropriate manner.
Ive listened to a recording of the call on 7 February 2022. Mr B also has a recording and has 
told us where he feels the staff member spoke inappropriately. Ive taken what he said into 
account.
The member of staff didnt immediately find the valuation report that Mr B was referring to. 
She found a different valuation, and emails with the valuer. Later in the call she found the 
valuation report Mr B was asking for. I dont think she intended to give incorrect information 
about whether HSBC had a copy of the report. She simply didnt find the valuation report 
immediately.
Mr B asked if the member of staff was listening to him (there was the sound of typing). She 
said she was looking to see if she could help him. When Mr B asked to make a complaint 
she said she wanted to put Mr B on hold while she asked a manager if she could offer any 
help. I dont think this was rude or unhelpful. 
Mr B asked the member of staff to stop shouting and later commented on what he said was 
a change in tone. However, I dont think she did shout. Mr B says the staff member wouldnt 
let him speak and kept repeating the same thing on purpose. I dont think thats fair. Each 
time Mr B asked why she wouldnt send a copy of the valuation report to him the member of 
staff tried to answer his question. She gave the same answer each time. I dont think she did 
this to upset him, but simply because it was the correct answer to his question. When the 
member of staff did interrupt Mr B she apologised. While Mr B says the staff member said he 
could have a copy of the report if he paid a fee, I didnt hear her say this.
I think HSBCs staff member acted appropriately during the call on 7 February 2022. 
HSBC sent a copy of the valuation report to Mr B. It said this was an exception and was, it 
seems, due to it having wrongly charged him a fee. It refunded the fee for the report. I think 
this is fair. 
I dont think HSBC made an error or treated Mr B unfairly so as to make it fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require HSBC to pay compensation or take any further 
steps. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman