DRN-4162132
The complaint
Mrs R has complained to St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) about the 
difference in the performance of the uncrystallised and crystallised elements of her 
Retirement Account (RA). SJP upheld the complaint but Mrs R doesnt agree with its 
proposal to put things right. 
What happened
Mrs R holds a RA with SJP. After noticing a difference in the way her crystallised pension 
account was performing compared to the uncrystallised account, Mrs R raised concerns with 
SJP. SJPs Investment Management team conducted a review of Mrs Rs RA in February 
2022. It explained that the crystallised and uncrystallised pension accounts held different 
funds and this was the main reason why they were performing differently. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with this so she complained to SJP. She said that the growth of her 
crystallised account had been inadequate in comparison to her uncrystallised account. She 
wanted SJP to amend the fund allocation of her crystallised account to reflect the better 
performing uncrystallised account and to complete a loss assessment based on what her 
returns would have looked like if this had been done from the beginning. She said she was 
also unhappy that her concerns had been ignored by SJP during her annual review 
meetings. So she wanted to be compensated for the poor service shed experienced.
 
SJP partially upheld the complaint. It accepted it should have taken Mrs Rs concerns about 
the difference in performance seriously, and if it had been more proactive the crystallised 
and uncrystallised accounts could have been aligned by January 2019. SJP calculated a 
loss of £19,192.41 resulting from this mistake. It offered to pay the amount directly to Mrs R 
(making a deduction for income tax) plus £400 compensation to reflect the impact of its poor 
service and delays.
Mrs R was happy with SJPs response relating to her concerns about the service she had 
received. However, she raised further points for SJP to consider regarding the rest of her 
complaint, including, amongst other things, concerns about the performance of the 
crystallised account. She also requested that SJP backdate its loss assessment to 2017, 
when she first entered flexi access drawdown. She also requested that the redress was paid 
into her pension rather than directly to her bank account. 
SJP reviewed these concerns. It didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint about investment 
performance and it remained of the view that it was appropriate for the loss assessment to 
start in 2019. It also explained that due to HMRC regulations it was unable to pay the 
redress into Mrs Rs pension. But it accepted Mrs Rs comments about the frustrations shed 
experienced and it increased the compensation to £650 overall.
Mrs R remained unhappy so she referred the complaint to our service for an independent 
review. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially thought SJP needed to do 
more to put things right. In summary the investigator thought completing a redress 
calculation based on aligning the portfolios in January 2019 was a reasonable approach. But 
he thought SJP needed to pay the redress into the pension plan as this would put Mrs R 
back in the position she otherwise would have been in. The investigator was satisfied £650 
compensation was fair in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Neither Mrs R nor SJP agreed with the investigators view. Mrs R said her loss dated back to 
the crystalised account being set up incorrectly in 2017. And Mrs Rs own calculations show 
the loss suffered is significantly higher at £33,942.40. She also didnt agree that she should 
pay tax on the redress because she hasnt requested any income; it is a payment to reflect 
growth that should otherwise have been in the account if it had been managed correctly. 
SJP said that its unable to make adjustments to Mrs Rs plan without it compromising the 
tax treatment of the plan. So it considers its offer to pay the redress directly to Mrs R with a 
notional deduction of income tax is in line with Financial Ombudsman Service guidance in 
situations such as this. 
Our investigator reviewed the arguments from both parties and updated his findings. In 
summary he said that: 
Having considered everything, he wasnt satisfied the crystallised account had been 
set up incorrectly. He acknowledged Mrs R had said shed been led to believe her 
crystallised and uncrystallised accounts would perform the same. But he said that 
SJP had provided a list of funds to be held in the crystallised account and it was clear 
some of these funds were different to the ones in the uncrystallised account. So, the 
investigator didnt think SJP had done anything wrong, given it explicitly stated which 
funds it intended to invest in. And Mrs R signed the declaration to show she accepted 
this recommendation.
Mrs R doesnt think it makes sense to set up a crystallised account which loses 
money. But the performance of an investment is dependent on market movements 
and isnt something that a business can guarantee or predict. So, the fact the funds 
held in the crystallised account didnt perform as well as expected doesnt 
necessarily mean SJP did anything wrong. It wouldnt be reasonable to look back 
and penalise a business for poor investment performance using hindsight.
Mrs R hasnt complained about the suitability of SJPs recommendation and it seems 
she understood the risk involved. SJP categorised Mrs R as a medium risk investor 
and based on her circumstances at the time of advice, the investigator thought that 
assessment was suitable. And in terms of the recommendation itself, the Managed 
Funds Portfolio was diversified and included UK and global equities, bonds and some 
cash, in line with Mrs Rs medium attitude to risk. So, the investigator thought the 
recommendation was suitable. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think SJP had set up Mrs Rs crystallised account 
incorrectly. It had made a suitable investment recommendation based on her attitude 
to risk and her circumstances at the time. It clearly set out the funds Mrs R was to be 
invested in and then proceeded on that basis. The fact Mrs Rs account didnt 
perform as expected wasnt something the investigator felt he could hold SJP 
responsible for. So, he wasnt going to ask SJP to calculate redress from 2017, when 
Mrs R sought advice to enter flexi-access drawdown.
Mrs R also stated that that she didnt think SJP managed her portfolio correctly. She 
was paying an annual management fee which entitled her to an annual review to 
receive ongoing advice. But the investigator hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the 
annual management fee included a more personalised service or that SJP had 
authority to make investment decisions on Mrs Rs behalf.Mrs R felt SJP should have known something was wrong at her end of year review in 
2017 and should have acted on it.  But the investigator didnt think this would be a 
reasonable conclusion as hed not seen any evidence that Mrs R had raised serious 
concerns or was dissatisfied with her fund performance during the meeting. The 
investigator had also taken into account SJPs strategy for medium to long-term 
investment and the need to allow higher risk investments time to overcome volatility.  
So, he wouldnt have expected SJP to recommend switching investments at the first 
annual review meeting.
SJP identified the second annual review meeting, at the end of 2018, as the point 
where it should have taken action. At this point Mrs R had raised concerns about the 
negative growth in both accounts and also questioned the discrepancy between their 
returns. The investigator agreed with SJP that if it had taken Mrs Rs concerns 
seriously at this point, it would have likely resolved the discrepancy by switching the 
funds held in the crystallised account to match the better performing uncrystallised 
account. So, the investigator thought conducting a redress calculation from January 
2019 would produce the fairest and most reasonable outcome.
Mrs R had questioned why her funds werent rebalanced in line with the Managed 
Funds Portfolio. SJP had said that consumers will not automatically be switched to 
the most up to date version unless they have concerns and wish to make changes 
following annual review meetings. The investigator thought this was a reasonable 
explanation and reflected SJPs advisory relationship in which it requires permission 
before making any changes. Moreover, the evidence suggested that neither the 
crystallised nor uncrystallised accounts were rebalanced. If they had been, its 
possible the uncrystallised account wouldnt have produced the same desirable 
returns Mrs R now wants to replicate in her crystallised account.
In terms of how the compensation should be paid, the investigator explained that if a 
payment into the pension would have implications on the money purchase annual 
allowance (MPAA), this service wouldnt usually force a business to do this. And as 
Mrs R has started taking income from her pension, there is a restriction on the 
amount that can now be paid back into it, currently £10,000. The investigator 
acknowledged Mrs Rs point that if it hadnt been for SJPs mistake, the money would 
have been in her pension. But he had seen evidence that a payment into the pension 
might not be compatible with pension regulations. So, he wouldnt be asking SJP to 
do this. 
In terms of the tax position, the investigator clarified that compensation paid to 
resolve a pension complaint is exempt from income tax  so Mrs R wouldnt need to 
make any declaration to HMRC. But had the redress been paid into Mrs Rs plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income and so the compensation should be adjusted 
to reflect this. Again, the investigator explained that this is in line with the approach 
our service takes in situations such as this. 
Mrs R responded to the investigators assessment. In summary she said that:
While she doesnt agree with the reason provided by SJP for the difference of 
performance between the crystallised and uncrystallised pension accounts, she can 
see her arguments are being refuted so theres no point pursuing this aspect further. 
She rejects the notion that notional tax should be taken from the compensation. 
Mrs R requests that the full compensation is paid directly into her crystallised 
account. This is the position she would have been in if the account had been 
managed appropriately. She doesnt want the compensation paid out by SJP as 
income as she doesnt need the additional income this year and may need it in future 
years. Mrs R has explained that shes a pensioner with no earned income so she cant top up her pension account and she is nowhere near her lifetime allowance. 
The compensation is for rectification of past, historic failures by SJP which resulted in 
lack of account growth. The approach proposed regards monies paid by SJP as 
contributions paid into the pension scheme by Mrs R. This is not appropriate. And it 
reduces the compensation to Mrs R by a notional 20% tax, which does nothing more 
than reduce the amount paid out by SJP. Even if Mrs R was earning, she couldnt put 
the monies back into the pension account as she would have received the amount 
less 20%. Mrs R also notes that although the compensation is reduced by 20%, this 
is not forwarded to HMRC. And she doesnt need to declare it to HMRC. So Mrs R 
has questioned if HMRC knows this is the approach taken by this service. 
The investigator has said that he needs to reach an outcome that is consistent with 
this services general approach. And hes said that making payments directly into the 
pension is not consistent with decisions SJP has received previously from our 
service.  However, the Financial Ombudsman Services website clearly declares We 
make decisions based on what we think is fair and reasonable, accounting for the 
unique circumstances of each case we receive. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has said that she no longer wishes to pursue the complaint in terms of how the plan 
was set up and the amount of redress due because SJP continues to refute this argument. 
While I dont intend to go into great detail regarding this aspect, Id like to reassure Mrs R 
that I have considered the complaint in its entirety. And having done so, I agree with our 
investigator on this aspect of the complaint. Ive seen no evidence the uncrystallised pension 
account was set up incorrectly. 
The reason for the difference in performance between the two accounts was due to the 
makeup of the funds within the Managed Funds Portfolio, at the time each of the accounts 
was established. For example, the model Managed Funds Portfolio in 2011 invested in the 
following funds: 
Invesco Perpetual Managed (Strategic managed) 15%
Schroder managed (Managed Growth) 15%
AXA Framlington Managed (Balanced Managed) 14%
GAM Managed (Recovery) 14%
Global Managed (Global) 14%
THSP Managed 14%
Worldwide Managed (Worldwide Opportunities) 14%
Over time, the proportion of these funds in the individual accounts will vary as some funds 
will perform better than others. But the fund allocation is not rebalanced automatically, other 
than for bulk switches. So in the case of the 2011 Managed Fund Portfolio, there was a bulk 
switch of the THSP Managed to Global Equity in 2013.
SJP adjusts the model Managed Fund Portfolio regularly to ensure that it remains well 
diversified and continues to meet its medium rated risk profile. This meant that in late 2016, 
when Mrs R received advice to crystallise some of her pension, the model Managed Fund 
Portfolio comprised of the following investments: 
AXA Framlington Managed 15%Global Equity 15%
Global Managed 10%
Multi Asset 15%
Schroder Managed 15%
Strategic Income 15%
Strategic Managed 15%
So Mrs Rs crystalised account was set up in line with the 2016 model portfolio. But because 
existing accounts dont get automatically rebalanced, Mrs Rs uncrystallised account didnt 
get switched over to the 2016 model. So the investments in the two accounts differed 
slightly, meaning their performance differed. I appreciate Mrs R believes the crystallised 
account was set up incorrectly from the start but for the reasons explained, I dont think SJP 
made an error here. 
What SJP did get wrong was that it failed to act when Mrs Rs raised concerns about the 
accounts performance. I agree with our investigator that the first review after the account 
had been set up was probably too early for SJP to have taken any action. Mrs R hadnt 
raised concerns at this point and like our investigator said, the portfolio is intended to be a 
medium to long term investment. So short term fluctuations are to be expected. But Mrs R 
says she expressed concerns about the performance of her account by the 2018 review. So 
I think its from this review that SJP ought to have taken action. It seems the crystallised fund 
report was generated in January 2019. So I agree that its at this point that SJP ought to 
have taken action to rebalance the funds held within the crystalised account. As such, Im 
satisfied SJPs offer to calculate the loss from this point is fair.  
Ive also thought carefully about what SJP needs to do to put this matter right. But before 
explaining my thoughts around this, Id like to assure Mrs R that while we may have 
particular approaches to the way we resolve complaints, we do also take the individual 
circumstances of each complaint into account when recommending what a business must do 
to put things right. 
Where possible in situations such as Mrs Rs - where its been determined that, but for an 
error caused by the business, the pension fund value would be higher - we would ask that a 
business pays any redress directly into the pension. I know this is what Mrs R would like to 
happen, but this isnt always possible. Ill explain why. 
HMRC will accept scheme administrators, in some circumstances, making adjustments to a 
pension, for any errors they have made, without compromising the tax treatment of the 
pension. But Mrs Rs complaint is against SJP Wealth Management Plc, as it is this business 
(or legal entity) that advises on the investments in the account and is responsible for any 
loss Mrs R has suffered. However, SJP Wealth Management Plc isnt the administrator of 
the pension scheme. The scheme is administered by SJP UK Plc, which, although part of 
the same group of companies, is a separate legal entity to SJP Wealth Management Plc. 
So HMRC rules state that the only way SJP Wealth Management Plc can make a payment 
into the pension, is if its treated as a third party contribution. However, we wouldnt ask a 
business to make a payment like this if it would have an impact on the individuals lifetime 
allowance or the MPAA. 
Mrs R has demonstrated that a payment into the pension wouldnt impact her lifetime 
allowance. But as she has already started taking benefits from her pension, the MPAA does 
apply. This limits contributions into the plan to a maximum of £10,000 per year. However, the 
redress exceeds this and so for this reason I wont be asking SJP to pay the redress into the 
pension as this have an impact on the MPAA. I do appreciate that Mrs R hadnt wanted to take any income from her pension at this time. 
But in trying to put things right, it isnt always possible to replicate the exact position the 
individual would be in now, if the error hadnt occurred. For this reason, its not unreasonable 
for SJP to make a payment directly to Mrs R. However, this payment represents additional 
pension benefits that would otherwise have been taxed in future so its appropriate for the 
compensation to be reduced to reflect the tax that Mrs R would have eventually paid when 
these benefits were taken. 
SJP has provided evidence to support its stance that Mrs R is likely a basic rate taxpayer. It 
therefore follows that, as the compensation is being paid directly to Mrs R, it needs to be 
reduced to reflect the tax that she would otherwise have paid, presumed to be 20%.
I appreciate that Mrs R feels SJP benefits from this situation by paying less to put matters 
right if it doesnt pass on the tax payment to HMRC. But my understanding is compensation 
paid for poor financial advice is exempt from income tax in most situations. So to ensure Mrs 
R isnt over compensated, its important the compensation is reduced to reflect the tax that 
wouldve otherwise been payable, had everything gone as it should. This approach - known 
as the Gourley principle after the 1956 House of Lords case (British Transport Commission 
v Gourley) - is well establish and informs the approach taken by this service in terms of 
notional tax deductions. And I see no reason why SJP should depart from our usual, well 
established approach to paying redress.
However, Im conscious that SJP completed its calculation quite some time ago and the 
compensation hasnt yet been paid. Its not known what Mrs R would have done with these 
funds if she had received them back in 2022. So to reflect the fact that she hasnt had the 
benefit of that money, SJP should update the loss by adding 8% simple interest per year, 
from the date of the calculation to the date of settlement.
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mrs R. SJP 
has offered £500 and an additional £150 for the delay in investigating the complaint. Bringing 
the total payment for distress and inconvenience to £650. 
I do appreciate Mrs Rs strength of feeling about this matter and I know she has put a lot of 
work into her complaint. Her concerns about the performance of her fund were not taken 
seriously when she first raised them. And now, in putting things right, the compensation is 
unable to be paid into her pension, as she has requested. However, overall, having 
considered the impact this has had on Mrs R, I think the £650 offered by SJP is fair.
Putting things right
To put matters right, SJP should:
Pay Mrs R the loss identified in its April 2022 calculation with an additional 8% simple 
interest to date of settlement
Pay Mrs R £650 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding this complaint. 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to settle the 
complaint. I think that was fair at the time it was made. But given the time that has passed 
since the offer was made, this offer should be bought up to date by adding 8% simple 
interest to the loss identified in the April 2022 calculation. It should also pay Mrs R £650 for the distress and inconvenient caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman