DRN-3710878
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc sent him arrears letters and falsely reported that
he was in arrears to credit reference agencies
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Sainsburys Bank. In July 2021 Mr H made an overpayment to his
account. The bank enquired about the source of funds and Mr H complained that
Sainsburys would already have that information on file. Then in September Sainsburys sent
Mr H an arrears letter saying that he was in arrears of £2,000. Sainsburys sent a further
similar letter dated 1 October. Mr H wanted to contact the bank but there was a problem as
the number was incorrect on the letter. Mr H never missed a payment and made a number of
overpayments that year.
When Mr H did get through, having explained the situation he then asked for an assurance
that he had not been charged fees, paid an incorrect interest amount and that the bank had
not reported the arrears to any credit reference agencies. Sainsburys responded in their
letter dated 16 November where they admitted to charging Mr H fees, the wrong interest
amount and that they had reported his account to those agencies. Sainsburys made an offer
of £100 compensation. Mr H wrote back refusing the offer and requested a copy of the
relevant correspondence pursuant to GDPR. Sainsburys maintained its position and Mr H
replied to their letter dated 15 December on 30 December 2021.
Sainsburys says that it received a lump sum overpayment of £5,000 from Mr H on 1
September 2021. But on 9 September 2021 the payment was reversed on the account and
then only £3,000 of the payment reapplied with the system showing an incorrect arrears
position of £2,000. The bank says that this error was identified by the Credit Management
Department on 17 September and the money reapplied to the account on 12 October 2021.
Sainsburys says that it reworked the account to ensure the correct amount of interest was
paid on the account. As the arrears was still showing on 30 September, the bank reported
this to the Credit Reference Agencies and a late fee applied to the account which was later
reversed. Sainsburys said it was removing the arrears marker on Mr Hs credit file and
offered Mr H £100 for the poor service he received.
Our investigators view
Our investigator thought that the offer from the bank was fair and didnt recommend that this
complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that in general the bank had treated Mr H
unfairly. Mr H disagreed and asked for a review.
My provisional findings
As my view of this case differed from that of our investigator, I issued my provisional 
decision in the following terms. I said 
This complaint arose following Mr H making an overpayment of £5,000 to his mortgage.
Sainsburys asked for proof of funds and Mr H objected. I cant say that Sainsburys request
was unreasonable or imputed guilt of being involved in money laundering to Mr H or put too
onerous a burden on him. I dont uphold that part of the complaint.
That said, I find that Sainsburys handling of the £5,000 overpayment constituted very poor
customer service. For some unknown reason the payment of £5,000 created a £2,000
arrears on the account. Despite knowing that there was an error, Sainsburys sent out two
arrears letters. The letter of 20 September 2021 brusquely tells Mr H you owe us £2,000
when he was in credit with the bank. Again, despite knowing there was an error and Mr H
wasnt in arrears, it reported the arrears to the credit reference agencies. The arrears letter
had an incorrect phone number for Mr H to phone. I would have thought that if the bank
realised that a customers account was erroneously recorded as in arrears , there should
have been a priority to rectify it swiftly so that the credit reference agencies werent given
information that was inaccurate but that didnt happen here.
Ive no doubt that this would have been very annoying for Mr H. It would have been
disturbing getting not one but a second arrears letter after Sainsburys realised it had made
an error. I recognise that this would have been a blow to Mr Hs confidence in Sainsburys
ability to handle an overpayment if it sparked an arrears letter. I also recognise that it must
have been disappointing to know that even after Sainsburys knew that Mr H was not in
arrears that it managed to tell the credit reference agencies that he was. It would have been
distressful to know that an unwarranted credit marker had appeared on his account. So, my
intention is to uphold this complaint.
I have to consider whether Mr H suffered any financial loss. Sainsburys reversed the
charges and interest that it charged and corrected the mortgage account. Mr Hs credit file
would have shown the account being in arrears for a period. Mr H redeemed his mortgage in
December. In his email to us of 11 May 2022 following our investigators review Mr H links
that to the bad service. In his email to us of 31 May, Mr H says that the remortgage was my
original intention which was abandoned when I realised that Sainsburys had negatively
impacted on my credit score. Because Mr H links these events Ive had to consider whether
they were linked.
There are two issues. Did Sainsburys actions cause Mr H to redeem the mortgage and did it
prevent him getting a remortgage? I would have thought that if it was the cause of either of
these that Mr H would have simply told Sainsburys that directly in his letter of 30 November
2021 which presumably was just a few days before the redemption. But its not mentioned
there or in any correspondence Ive seen by Mr H with the bank. The arrears may have
affected Mr H;s credit score during the period it was showing but Ive no evidence that there
was any credit application at this time and again Mr H doesnt mention in any
correspondence to Sainsburys at the time that he felt that he couldnt apply for a remortgage
because of anything showing on his credit file. So, Ive no evidence that Mr H suffered a
financial loss because of this.
But Mr H should receive fair compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I consider the
compensation offered by Sainsburys inadequate and I have to consider the level of
reasonable compensation for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience. My role is not to punish a
business for its errors but to provide a fair level of compensation to Mr H for the distress and
inconvenience he has suffered. Using our guidelines, I accept that Sainsburys actions
caused Mr H considerable distress and upset and required an input of time from him to get
things sorted. So, my view is that a fair level of compensation is £600.
I issued this Provisional Decision and invited further submissions from Mr H and from the 
bank. The bank responded to say that it accepted my decision but thought that the amount 
of compensation was quite generous and not in line with the customer impact since it was 
just a couple of letters and an incorrect credit file for a short period. Mr H didnt respond.My decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. I note that the bank has accepted my 
decision but considers that I have over compensated Mr H for the impact of Sainsburys 
error as it says it only involved 2 letters and an incorrect credit file for a short period. Mr H 
makes no further submission. I looked again at my decision and the level of compensation. I 
can assure Sainsburys that the amount of compensation awarded wasnt some sort of 
punishment for the bank nor do I award compensation on the number of errors made. I have 
to look at the impact of the error on Mr H and our guidelines. I noted above: 
 Ive no doubt that this would have been very annoying for Mr H. It would have been
disturbing getting not one but a second arrears letter after Sainsburys realised it had made
an error. I recognise that this would have been a blow to Mr Hs confidence in Sainsburys
ability to handle an overpayment if it sparked an arrears letter. I also recognise that it must
have been disappointing to know that even after Sainsburys knew that Mr H was not in
arrears that it managed to tell the credit reference agencies that he was. It would have been
distressful to know that an unwarranted credit marker had appeared on his account.
It seems to me that all this would have caused considerable distress and upset to Mr H over 
a period of time  and under our guidelines I believe that the suggested award of 
compensation is appropriate. So, my view is that my provisional decision represents a fair 
outcome to this complaint.
Putting things right
Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr H £600.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mr H 
compensation of £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman