DRN-2151315
The complaint
Miss A complains about how Calpe Insurance Company Limited administered her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss A complained about how her insurer handled a claim between 2010 and 2015. A final 
response to this complaint was provided by her then insurer in 2015. Miss A said this has 
had an impact on her premiums and credit file. Miss A complained again in 2019 when 
Calpe asked her to pay a bill for £33,000 from the 2010 claim. Calpe agreed that this was an 
administrative error and it paid Miss A £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused her. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Calpes 
offer of compensation for the administrative error was fair and reasonable. 
Miss A replied that she wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint, so its come to me 
for a final decision. She was worried that the incorrect avoidance of her policy was still 
affecting her premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss A has had a difficult and worrying time dealing with her 
insurance. Shes told us that this has been stressful and upsetting for her. Miss As first 
complaint was about an incorrect avoidance of her policy that she said led to increased 
premiums. This complaint was about a separate business to Calpe, so Im not able to 
consider that here. 
But I can consider Miss As second complaint about how her policy was administered by 
Calpes agents. I think Calpe, the underwriter for her policy, is responsible for the agents 
actions, and I can see that it has accepted this. 
Miss A took out a new policy and was then told that the policy would be cancelled due to an 
outstanding balance on a previous policy. When Miss A asked about this, she was put 
through to Calpes agents. It said she owed £33,000 for a claim going back to 2010. Miss A 
was able to provide a copy of the settlement letter that resolved this. And Calpe accepted 
that it had made a mistake. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Calpe accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Calpe acted promptly to ensure that Miss As new policy was unaffected. It 
apologised and it offered her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this mistake 
caused her. I can understand that Miss A would feel upset to be reminded of the previous 
dispute four years after it was resolved. But I think Calpes offer was fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require it to increase 
this. 
Miss A said she was worried that the incorrect avoidance was still affecting her premiums. 
Our investigator asked her for evidence of this. But I cant see that Miss A has provided this. 
So I dont have any evidence to consider on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman