DRN-3417034
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as R, complains that when replacing its old Authentication card 
with a new one, Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) wrongly placed a stop on the old card before 
issuing a new one. R says this impacted the running of its business. 
In bringing this complaint R is represented by its director - who I refer to as Mr H. 
 
What happened
In order to conduct its online banking, BoS provided R with an Authentication card. Mr H has 
told us that on 11 October 2021 he rang BoS to order a new card because he was fearful 
that due to general wear and tear on the existing card it wouldnt be long before it stopped 
working altogether.  
 
Unfortunately, in error, BoS treated the old card as lost/stolen and placed a stop on it. That 
prevented R from accessing online banking facilities. Mr H said that although he pleaded 
with BoS to expedite issuing the replacement card, which they did to some degree, 
nonetheless the new card didnt arrive until about a week later. 
So, Mr H complained to BoS. He told them that because R had no access to online banking 
due to the card suspension, on 12 October 2021, it was unable to fulfil a contractual 
obligation to grant a £36,000 loan to another company. I refer to this company as D. Mr H 
said he tried unsuccessfully to borrow the money elsewhere so that R could complete the 
loan and this created several hours of extra work for him, equivalent perhaps to one 
business day. Furthermore, according to Mr H, because D didnt receive the funds it 
expected from R on 12 October, it wasnt able complete a foreign currency trade on that day 
and so this had to be re-arranged. 
BoS acknowledged their error and offered £100 to compensate R for the inconvenience 
theyd caused. But Mr H didnt think that was enough and so he referred Rs complaint to this 
service. 
Focusing primarily on the circumstances of the foreign currency trade which Mr H identified 
as substantially the source of Rs inconvenience, the investigator concluded that because of 
its inability to complete the trade, D rather than R was mainly impacted by BoS error. In 
particular, the investigator noted that Mr H was also a director of D and that in his testimony 
Mr H acknowledged it was he who rearranged the foreign currency trade when the £36,000 
loan seemed destined not to arrive. So, the investigator didnt believe BoS should pay 
compensation for that or for any inconvenience Mr H may have experienced personally. 
In relation to R, however, the investigator noted that although Mr H didnt have full access to 
Rs account after BoS suspended the card, hed nonetheless been able to conduct certain 
transactions using telephone banking. So, overall, he was satisfied that BoS offer of £100 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
 
R did not accept the investigators conclusions. On its behalf, Mr H further explained his 
reasons for believing that R, rather D, was substantially inconvenienced. Mr H said R and D 
had an arms length agreement whereby R undertook to provide loans to D on an as 
required basis. But the prospect of not being able to do so on 12 October 2021 meant he 
had to spend a considerable amount of time on behalf of R finding an alternative solution to 
avoid the risk of default. He said that meant he was unable to carry out his primary role on 
behalf of R which was to earn fee income for it. And when calculated by reference to his 
charge out rate and the time he spent trying to make good on the loan to D, BoS error 
effectively cost R around £2,000.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same reasons.
Since the bank has acknowledged it made an error, like the investigator I have focused on 
whether by offering to pay £100 compensation to R, BoS have done enough to put things 
right. 
Mr H has explained that although BoS realised their error when they put a stop on Rs old 
card, nonetheless, the bank seemed unable to sufficiently expedite issuing a new one.  And 
in particular, in time for him to compete the loan transfer from R to D on 12 October 2021. 
He didnt think BoS provided helpful solutions to the problem R faced. So, for example, 
although telephone banking was available, the ceiling on the amounts that could be 
transferred using that facility was maintained even though it was far below the £36,000 that 
R needed to transfer to D.  
I do understand Mr Hs frustration that BoS werent as flexible as he might have hoped when 
he was trying to find a solution to the lack of online access to Hs account. Ill come 
specifically in a moment to the events surrounding the attempts to transfer funds from R to 
D. But first I think it might be helpful to set out the broad parameters when it comes to how 
we determine compensation for inconvenience.
Overall, Mr H considers BoS offer of £100 to be derisory and that compensation should be 
more in the order of £2,000, especially when calculated by reference to the cost of his time 
dealing with the consequences of BoS error.  
But we dont make specific awards for someones time, or calculate compensation using a 
set amount such as an hourly or daily rate. Rather we take account of the inconvenience the 
complainant experiences and the impact it had on them. 
Mr H acknowledges he was able to use telephone banking to carry out transactions. And 
apart from the loan transfer to D on 12 October 2021, the routine operation of the account 
continued to be possible.
 
So, with that in mind I now come to Mr Hs account the12 October 2021 transfer which was, 
according to him, the major source of the inconvenience caused to R. 
The investigator concluded that the inconvenience was in fact mainly experienced by D. 
Since it was D that hadnt been able to complete the foreign exchange transaction on 12 
October, for lack of funds, I dont think thats an unreasonable conclusion. But I wouldnt be 
able to compensate D for such inconvenience. I say that because Im not aware that D was 
ever a customer of BoS. And even if Im wrong about that, I would still need to be satisfied 
that Ds inconvenience arose from its own relationship with BoS.  However, Ive not been persuaded that Ds inability to complete the foreign exchange transaction on 12 October 
arose from an error BoS committed in its relationship with D. Rather, the bank made an error 
in its relationship with R. 
That being said, Ive not ignored Mr Hs case that in the overall circumstances, through him, 
R was in fact inconvenienced by BoS error. I would agree that if, as result of something a 
bank has done wrong in relation to a company, the director of that company has to spend 
time dealing with the consequences such that theyre unable to properly conduct the 
companys affairs, then that company can, by extension, be inconvenienced. 
Overall, Im satisfied BoS error did inconvenience R. The key question is to what extent. Ive 
borne in mind that the suspension of Rs card did not render its account totally inoperable 
since telephone banking was still available, although in relation to the transfer of the £36,000 
loan to D that couldnt be done. And I accept Mr Hs case he had to spend time trying to find 
alternative funding to complete the loan. 
But based on Mr Hs own testimony, his time wasnt spent solely on finding alternative 
funding to satisfy Rs obligation. Hes said part of his time was devoted to negotiating with 
the foreign exchange service provider to move the date of the foreign exchange trade given 
the difficulty with funding it. So, again, this was a problem for D rather than for R.  
Putting things right
Having considered this, and solely in relation to the inconvenience caused to R, I agree with 
the investigator a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay H, £100 in full and final settlement 
of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman