DRN-1925315
The complaint
Mr B complains about losses he incurred on a trading account as a result of his inability to 
make payments from his TSB Bank Plc bank account. 
What happened
Mr B had a trading account with a firm Ill call A. The type of trading Mr B carried out 
involved using leverage  in other words using a small cash deposit to speculate on the price 
of shares, commodities or indices without having to buy the underlying asset being traded. 
While the trade remains open, the underlying value or price of the asset will fluctuate, and so 
will the running profit or loss. When the cash or equity in the account is no longer enough to 
provide sufficient margin for the open trade, the trader will either need to add more cash or 
close the trade. If the consumer takes too long, the provider will close the trades for them. 
On 10 July 2018 TSB suffered a hardware failure in one of their data centres. This caused 
certain issues with its service  but interruption of its internet banking service was restored 
quickly. It was its branch and contact centres which continued experiencing issues 
throughout the day. Card payments were not affected by this issue. 
On the same day Mr B had a number of open trades with A. He received an email from A 
that said he needed to add more margin to his account, or the trades would be closed. He 
attempted to make a payment of £500 to his account using his TSB debit card, but the 
payment was declined  so his trades were closed, realising a £4,000 loss. At around 
2.40pm Mr B called TSB and was told that there were ongoing system issues. The person 
he spoke to was unable to check Mr Bs account to verify what the issue was that was 
causing his payments to be blocked. 
Later on that day Mr B attempted to make further payments to his account with A but was 
unable to. Mr B complained. 
TSB considered Mr Bs complaint. It apologised for the issues he experienced, but didnt 
agree it should compensate him for the trading losses or loss of profit. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to this service. He said that on 10 July 
2018 he had no access to [his] debit card or internet banking and phone banking with TSB 
for more than 8 hours. He said that when he contacted TSB, it was unable to support [him] 
with his urgent requirement to make the payment to his trading account. As a result of being 
unable to make the payment, a number of trades were closed due to him having insufficient 
cash in his trading account. This caused him losses of around £4,000, as well as lost profits 
(of between £1,200 and £2,000) which Mr B says he wouldve made on the trades if he had 
been able to keep them open. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she said the evidence indicated the payments had failed because honouring them 
wouldve put Mr Bs account over its overdraft limit. She said there was insufficient evidence 
to demonstrate that the payments had failed because of the IT migration issues which TSB had been experiencing. As a result, she didnt consider TSB did anything wrong or ought to 
be responsible for the financial losses Mr B suffered on his trading account. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said
He had plenty of money in his savings account which he wouldve used to cover his 
bank account if he had been able to access his internet banking. 
Internet banking wasnt available on 10 July, and he provided news articles that said 
this. 
He no longer had his log-in history so couldnt demonstrate that he had tried to 
access internet banking. 
He said as soon as A contacted him to ask him to add funds to his trading account, 
he tried hundreds of times to access online banking and was unable to. He said he 
also tried to call TSB multiple times but didnt get through. He said that when he did 
get through he wasnt thinking about complaining, he was simply trying to understand 
how to access his account in order to protect his other trades. 
The fact that he continued to try and make payments that evening showed that he 
had been unable to access his internet banking  otherwise he wouldve known he 
needed to transfer funds from his savings account to his current account. 
 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
As Mr B is aware, Im required to decide matters on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, where the evidence is contradictory and incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based 
my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I've taken into account Mr B's very detailed submissions about what happened at the time. I 
hope he doesn't take it as a discourtesy that I don't reply to every point he has made. The 
purpose of my decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key in the 
complaint. 
In this case, it seems on balance that Mr B thought, at the time, that his payments were 
being declined because of trouble TSB was having with its IT systems. But in order for me to 
conclude that TSB ought to compensate Mr B for consequential trading losses, I'd need to 
be satisfied on balance that it was reasonable for Mr B to have thought this - and that he 
tried all available options to resolve the issue and avoid his trading losses, but was unable 
to.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded internet banking was unavailable for the 
period Mr B has suggested. I say this because the evidence TSB has provided from the 
updates it gave at the time showed that card payments werent affected, and internet 
banking was available for most of the day. And Ive seen insufficient evidence that Mr B was 
specifically unable to access his own account  I think he wouldve mentioned that in his call 
with TSB if that had been the case. I would add that Ive seen insufficient evidence of Mr B 
making any further calls to TSB during the day. This is also significant because it means I can't conclude, on balance, that Mr B tried all available options at the time to understand 
why his payments to A were being declined. 
I also need to take into account the fact that whatever issues were affecting TSB systems, 
they were for a short period of time. Mr Bs account was already overdrawn by 5 July by just 
over £500, and a few days later he had made another payment to A  this was debited from 
his account on 11 July and put his account into overdraft by over £1,000. So its clear to me 
that Mr B ought to have been aware, on 10 July, that he was close enough to his overdraft 
limit that he might need to transfer money from his savings account. He made no reference 
to this in his call with TSBs agent. I think it's likely that even though his account was 
overdrawn, Mr B assumed his payments were being declined for a different reason. 
Ultimately, it was Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he knew the balance in his current account, 
and to ensure he had sufficient cash in his trading account to keep his trades open. Whilst I 
dont doubt that he initially thought his card payments were being declined because of TSBs 
system issues, this wasnt in fact the case. Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask TSB to compensate Mr B for trading losses he incurred, when these trades were, 
ultimately, closed because the market had moved against Mr B  and not as a result of 
something TSB did or didnt do.  
I understand that TSB has already made a payment to £700, and as a result, I wont be 
asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman