DRN-3422379
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided poor advice 
when he phoned it about a pending transaction on his account.
What happened
Mr K made a payment on 20 September from his bank account to a third party. The payment 
showed on his bank statement as pending. Mr K contacted Halifax about this  he wished to 
know why if the payment hadnt left his account it was showing as overdrawn and he felt that 
he shouldnt have to pay any overdraft fees for this if the payment hadnt been made.
The communication between Mr K and the Halifax advisers was less than satisfactory and 
they werent able to come to a resolution on the matter.
Mr K complained to Halifax and in Halifaxs final response letter it explained that:
1. When he made a DC payment funds may be reserved from the company the 
payment is made to ready for them to take later but the account balance would be 
reduced by the payment amount.
2. That Mr K wouldnt be charged interest for the pending payment if it took him into 
overdraft and that fees would only be charged if he didnt pay in enough money into 
his account before the money is debited.
3. It sent Mr K a text informing him that he had payments due that may take him into his 
overdraft. But as Mr K paid money into his account before the payment was taken he 
wasnt charged any overdraft fees. 
4. Halifax apologized that Mr K felt its service wasnt up to standard, but says Mr K 
wouldnt allow its advisors to speak and didnt agree there were any failings on its 
part. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion after 
listening to the phone recordings between Halifax and Mr K that Halifax hadnt done anything 
wrong or treated Mr K unfairly. Our adjudicator felt that during the phone calls Mr K didnt 
allow the advisors to speak and answer his questions and felt there was miscommunication 
on both sides.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
And it might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make 
the bank change its systems or processes  such as how transactions are processed or get 
involved with what banks charge for services that is purely a commercial decision of the 
banks. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or 
disciplinary role.
Mr K contacted Halifax when he saw that a direct debit payment was described as pending -
he sought clarification that he wouldnt be charged overdraft fees while the payment was 
pending. Unfortunately, though there was no mistake or error on Halifaxs part with the way it 
processed this transaction the lines of communication broke down when Mr K contacted 
Halifax about this payment.
So what I need to decide is whether the service Mr K received when he contacted Halifax 
was good enough. And having listened to the phone recordings Im in agreement with our 
adjudicator here - I think it was. If a customer has a problem or a question about a service 
they need to give the business a chance to investigate the problem and provide an answer. 
And having listened to the phone calls I think the service Mr K received was hindered by his 
own behaviour. I dont think Mr K gave the Halifax advisors enough of a chance to 
understand his concerns or to provide an explanation. Mr K routinely interrupted the 
advisors, was confrontational and argumentative and as a result he didnt get the answers 
he sought over the phone.
However, I can see that Halifax have addressed what I think Mr Ks concerns were about the 
pending payment in answer to his complaint. So as no mistakes have been made on 
Halifaxs part and Mr K has suffered no financial loss  I dont think Halifax needs to do 
anything more here. And I dont think Halifax treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably which 
means Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint and Im not asking Bank 
of Scotland plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman