DRN-3961728
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) closed his accounts which led to him having to 
sell his crypto assets.
Background
In November 2022, Revolut took the decision to close Mr Os accounts and it sent Mr O a 
letter confirming that it would do so with immediate effect. Mr O complained about Revoluts 
actions. Revolut didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. As Mr O remained dissatisfied, Mr O 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. She didnt think that Revolut had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Revolut acted unfairly towards Mr O 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr O, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr O is unhappy 
that Revolut closed his accounts. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer with 
an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And while Mr O is 
unhappy that his accounts were closed without notice, Ive reviewed Revoluts actions and 
Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account when taking the 
action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Revolut had sufficient grounds to close Mr Os accounts and as such its 
decision wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Revoluts decision will have been 
very disappointing to Mr O and I can appreciate why the closure of his accounts will have 
caused him inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell 
Revolut it has to continue offering Mr O accounts in circumstances which it has legitimately 
decided it no longer wishes to provide them to him.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr O is unhappy that he had to sell his crypto assets. However, Im 
satisfied that Revoluts terms and conditions clearly state thats what would happen in the 
event that Mr Os accounts were closed in the way that they were. And as Ive already 
explained why I think that Revolut were able to close Mr Os account in the way that it did, it 
follows Im satisfied that it didnt do anything wrong in relation to Mr Os crypto assets either. 
So while I sympathise with any losses Mr O may have experienced, Im satisfied that Revolut 
isnt responsible for this.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Revolut acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr O and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr O. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Revolut was entitled to close his accounts in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman