DRN-2908879
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy a claim he tried to make under his property insurance policy has been 
declined by Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes).
What happened
Mr H says his tenant notified him of water leaking into the property at some point in February 
2020. But due to circumstances at the time, he didnt attend the property until the tenant left 
in June 2020. Mr H then reported a claim to Great Lakes, his property insurance provider, for 
rot damage to his door and damage to the main and porch roof, and from water entering his 
property.
Mr H was asked to obtain quotes for repairs and to provide images of the damage, but this 
took several months, and they were submitted to Great Lakes in October 2020. Following a 
review of the quotes and images Mr H provided, Great Lakes said theyd need to appoint a 
contractor to carry out an inspection. By this time, Mr H had replaced the door and plastered 
the porch.
Great Lakes inspected the property but declined the claim. They said the damage had been 
caused as a result of gradual wear and tear and maintenance issues with the property, porch 
and main roof, rather than a one-off event of storm damage.
Mr H was unhappy with the decision from Great Lakes, so he approached the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said there 
werent any signs of one-off storm damage to Mr Hs porch or main roof. She was persuaded 
the weather had highlighted an existing gradual wear and tear and maintenance issue, so 
she said Great Lakes hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim on that basis.
She also said a report from Mr Hs own contractor didnt change her view, and she didnt 
think the service Great Lakes had provided had been unreasonable.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy covers damage caused by a number of insured events such as fire, flood, and 
in this case storm. Bad weather or water entering a property over a period of time causing 
damage isnt an insured event itself, rather it needs to be caused by a one-off event of storm 
damage.
Here, Mr H says he thinks the storm occurred at the end of February. But hes also said that 
there were various periods of bad weather in the preceding three to four months leading up 
to when he says the tenant told him in February. Mr H first reported the claim to Great Lakes 
in June 2020.
Great Lakes have accepted there were storm conditions in February when Mr H thinks 
damage was caused. So as Great Lakes accepted a storm occurred, I dont need to decide 
that point further.
Instead, Great Lakes has said the damage has been caused as a result of gradual wear and 
tear and maintenance related issues with Mr Hs property over time. So theyve declined the 
claim on the basis of the following exclusion in Mr Hs policy:
Wear and Tear
Loss or damage as a result of wear and tear, rusting or corrosion, wet or dry rot or fungus or 
any gradually operating cause.
So, I need to decide if it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on this exclusion to 
decline the claim.
Great Lakes reached the gradual wear and tear and maintenance conclusion following an 
inspection of the roof and porch, and based on the images Mr H provided. They said there 
was no evidence of damage consistent with a one-off event of storm. Instead they said the 
roof and porch were suffering from gradual wear and tear and maintenance related issues  
and that this was the cause of water entering and causing damage. 
Having seen both the photos taken by Great Lakes contractor, and those provided to 
Great Lakes by Mr H, I think, on balance, they support the position that the main and porch 
roof are suffering gradual wear and tear and maintenance issues. There arent any signs of 
one-off storm type damage such as missing tiles. Instead there appears to be historic and 
maintenance related cracks to the tiles, and cracks and gaps around them. And in my view, 
on balance, this wouldve allowed water to enter, which highlighted an existing longer-term 
issue with the roof, rather than being due to a one-off event of storm damage alone. 
Mr H is unhappy Great Lakes didnt go into the loft space when they visited, but theyve 
explained they were unable to due to access issues. However, even in the absence of this, 
there are no signs of external storm related damage. And as I said, Im persuaded the 
images (from both Great Lakes and Mr H) support that it does appear to be a longer term 
wear and tear and maintenance related issue which has been highlighted by the bad 
weather, rather than the damage being caused by a one-off storm alone. 
Mr H has also obtained a report from his own contractor. This mentions more generally 
storm damage, heavy rain and cold weather damage, without specifics of how or what 
damage has been caused or that it was solely due to a one-off event of storm. As I said, 
Mr Hs policy does cover a one-off event of storm damage. But bad weather and water 
entering over a period of time isnt covered. And having considered the report Mr Hs 
contractor has provided, Im not persuaded this demonstrates the damage was caused 
solely by a one-off storm event, rather than as a result of maintenance and gradual wear and 
tear issues.
So having considered all the information both parties have provided, including the reports 
and images, I dont think Great Lakes have acted unfairly by relying on the exclusion they 
have to decline the claim.
Mr H has also said hes unhappy with the amount of time the claim has taken and 
Great Lakes handling of it. But following the reporting of the loss in June, Mr H was asked to 
provide images and quotes for repair. This isnt unusual and its not unreasonable for Great Lakes to ask him to do so. And it then took some time for these to be sent to Great 
Lakes to consider.
Following this, as the images and quote werent sufficient for Great Lakes to validate the 
claim, they carried out an inspection. I dont think thats unreasonable as they werent able to 
accept the damage was caused by an insured event based on the information Mr H provided 
alone.
Mr H says that due to the delays he had to carry out works to the property, including 
replacing the rotten door. But given the claim was declined on the basis of an exclusion  
which I dont think is unreasonable for the reasons Ive outlined  Mr H wouldve always 
needed to arrange for repairs, even if Great Lakes had attended and declined the claim 
sooner than they did.
Mr H has also said he didnt receive an acknowledgement to the complaint he made to 
Great Lakes. However, Great Lakes has provided a copy of the acknowledgement that was 
sent at the time. They also forwarded it again when he said he hadnt received anything. And 
they later sent a final response to the complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman