DRN-4324879
The complaint
Mr F complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) gave him account details but did not 
give his wife her account details.
What happened
Mr F says he and his wife opened identical individual accounts. He says he called YBS and 
after passing security questions was given account details. Mr F says his wife also called 
YBS, but she was not given account details for her account. He says that amounts to 
possible discrimination and is concerned about his account security. Mr F says anyone could 
have called YBS and been given his confidential information.
YBS says Mr F passed its security questions and so it correctly gave him account details. It 
says it cant comment on Mr Fs wifes security questions or its decision about her access. 
Mr F brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr F was able to access his account and couldnt comment on his wifes position. 
The investigator thought it was up to YBS to decide its security questions and process.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says his position was the same as his wifes save, he 
contacted YBS on a different occasion. He says they should have been treated the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I am sure Mr F appreciates that banks and building societies must have security measures in 
place to protect its and its customers money. Im satisfied it is for a business to decide what 
those measure are, when exercising its commercial judgement.
There is no dispute here that YBS asked Mr F security questions which he passed. It was 
also able to verify his telephone number and e-mail address. So, Im satisfied that YBS took 
appropriate steps to ensure it was speaking to Mr F and there is no issue that it was Mr F.
I appreciate Mr F suggests that anyone could have called YBS and given it his details. But 
Im satisfied that didnt happen as it was Mr F that called YBS, and he gave correct details. 
So, I cant see why Mr F says YBS acted unfairly or made a mistake by allowing him account 
details in these circumstances.
I cant fairly comment on any complaint Mr Fs wife may have as it was she, and not Mr F 
that didnt obtain account access. I dont know for example if she was asked identical 
questions or if there was an issue with her telephone number. I cant see how Mr F was 
discriminated against in these circumstances as he did obtain account access and it difficult 
to see what his complaint is here.
If Mr Fs wife thinks she has been treated unfairly then she would need to make her own 
complaint. But I cant see that YBS has acted unfairly or made a mistake by giving Mr F his 
account details after he passed security.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman