DRN-1644231
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him loans he says he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
This complaint is about five loans Sunny provided to Mr T between March and September 
2019. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate
 
TakenDate
 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan
 
AmountHighest Combined
 
Monthly Repayment
1 07/03/2019 13/06/2019 10 £550.00 £110.00
2 01/07/2019 05/07/2019 6 £600.00 £195.58
3 04/08/2019 09/08/2019 6 £600.00 £192.52
4 23/08/2019 30/08/2019 6 £200.00 £66.67
5 07/09/2019 16/09/2019 6 £200.00 £62.41
 
Mr T mainly said that Sunny lent to him irresponsibly as it failed to carry out proper checks 
and the loans werent affordable for him. As a result he told us he was caught in a spiral of 
debt and his financial situation worsened as a result of these loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that Sunny shouldnt have lent 
loan 5 to Mr T. Our adjudicator set out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right 
for Mr T. 
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicator and said it didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Sunny mainly said that its records showed that Mr T was able to sustainably meet his 
monthly repayments. Sunny said its view that the loans werent unaffordable for Mr T was 
supported by the number of loans and relatively small amount of credit provided to him, the 
information Mr T provided to Sunny about his circumstances, including his income and expenditure, and the information Sunny obtained from the credit reference agencies at the 
time.
Sunny has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr T. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr Ts credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had seen enough to say that loans 1 - 4 shouldnt have been 
provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Mr T said about his income 
and expenses when he took out these loans. I agree with our adjudicator that there isnt 
enough to say Sunny shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr T. It was still early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend these 
loans. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about the first four loans.
But I think that by loan 5, Sunny should have realised that Mr T wasnt managing to repay 
his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Sunny could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr T had struggled 
to repay previous loans. Within a month after paying the previous loan hed taken out 
a new loan each time. 
 
Mr T took out loan 5 just one week or so after he paid loan 4. And this was now the 
third time in a row that hed repaid a loan early then soon borrowed again. 
 
Although loans 4 and 5 were for smaller amounts than his earlier loans, this record of 
borrowing doesnt suggest that Mr T was asking to borrow because of a new need for 
a short term loan. Rather, I think this indicated that overall Mr Ts financial 
circumstances hadnt improved and he had ongoing money problems.  
 
It looks likely to me that Mr T had to borrow again each time because he was facing 
money problems after repaying each previous loan.  
 
In these circumstances, I think there was a significant risk Mr T wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 5.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 5.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Sunny has said, including 
comments made in response to our adjudicators view. But this doesnt change my overall 
view. For the reasons I've explained, I think borrowing and repaying this number of loans 
early suggests to me that Mr Ts finances were not in a stable position and he was struggling 
to manage his debt. The fact he saved on interest isnt a reason for me not to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint about loan 5.
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 5, not including anything already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Pay Mr T the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove any adverse information Sunny has recorded on Mr Ts credit file for loan 5. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint about loan 5. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out 
above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman