DRN-2981054
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way that BUPA Insurance Limited has administered her personal
private dental insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M holds a personal private dental insurance policy. Her policy year runs from 10 June
until 9 June of each year. During each policy year, Mrs M was entitled to various dental
benefits, up to a specified limit. Mrs M self-pays her dentist and subsequently, claims back
the treatment costs from BUPA.
In January 2020, Mrs M paid a deposit to her dentist for a procedure which was scheduled
for 27 February 2020. Due to the dentist becoming unwell, this appointment was put back
until 5 March 2020. However, Mrs M cancelled this appointment and so it was rescheduled
for 23 March 2020.
But on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the UK government as a result of
the Covid-19 pandemic. This led to the closure of NHS and private dentists to prevent the
virus spreading. So Mrs M was unable to undergo her planned treatment until July 2020,
following the reopening of dental practices in June 2020 and the renewal of her policy on 10
June 2021. Mrs M made a claim on her dental insurance policy for the costs associated with
her treatment.
BUPA agreed to settle Mrs Ms claim. As shed had the treatment in July 2020, BUPA dealt
with the claim in line with the 2020-21 policy year entitlements. Mrs M was unhappy with
BUPAs decision. Thats because she felt that if it hadnt been for Covid-19, shed have been
able to undergo treatment before her policy renewed in June 2020 and therefore, the claim
wouldve been settled under that years policy entitlements. Mrs M also felt that due to
Covid-19, shed had no benefit from her policy. BUPA maintained its decision though. And it
told Mrs M that it wasnt offering a rebate to its dental customers at that point. But it said Mrs
M could make use of BUPA dental services. Or, if she was already undergoing treatment,
she could have a remote emergency consultation.
Mrs M remained unhappy with BUPAs position and so she asked us to look into her
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms
and conditions made it clear that BUPA would assess claims in line with the date of
treatment  so the 2020-21 policy entitlements would apply. And she noted that at that point,
BUPA was considering its response to Covid-19 for dental policyholders. But that it had
continued to provide some benefits while dental practices were closed. So she didnt think
BUPA needed to take any action.
Mrs M disagreed. Ive summarised her detailed responses to our investigator. She said she
wasnt aware of any dental support during Covid-19 and BUPA hadnt told her about it until 3
July 2020. Shed made many calls to BUPA between March 2020 and her policy renewal
date and BUPA hadnt answered her questions. She said she hadnt been sure if shed be
able to renew. Shed had little choice but to renew her policy, as she was keen to complete
the treatment shed begun in January 2020. She said that if it hadnt been for Covid-19, her
dentist is clear that the treatment wouldve been completed during the 2019-20 policy year.
She stated that many other businesses had adapted their processes during the pandemic to
assist customers.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 July 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mrs M that while Ive summarised her detailed responses to our
investigator, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. In making my decision
though, I havent commented on each and every point shes raised and our rules dont
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. It seems to me
there are three main issues for me to decide. Was it fair for BUPA to pay the claim under the
2020-21 policy year? Was it fair for BUPA to retain the premiums Mrs M paid between 23
March 2020 and 8 June 2020, while dental practices were closed? And did BUPA give Mrs
M enough information about available benefits while dental practices were closed?
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
Mrs Ms complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with
BUPA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
Was it fair for BUPA to pay Mrs Ms claim under the 2020-21 policy?
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mrs Ms contract with BUPA.
The policy includes a section called Making a claim. One term says:
Payment of benefits is conditional upon BUPA receivinga fully completed claim for
payment within six months from the date of the completion of the treatment for which
you are claiming unless we agree otherwise where this was not reasonably possible. (Bold
is my emphasis.)
I think this term makes it clear that BUPA will only pay claims once treatment has been
completed. In this case, theres no dispute that while Mrs M paid a deposit for her treatment
in January 2020, she didnt undergo treatment until July 2020, after the new policy year had
begun. So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, I think it was reasonable for BUPA to
conclude that the claim should be considered under the 2020-21 policy, rather than the
2019-20 policy.
Its clear Mrs M feels strongly that but-for Covid-19, her treatment wouldve been completed
by 9 June 2020 and Ive considered this. Ive borne in mind though that her dentists letter
states that the first scheduled appointment was cancelled due to their having flu. And Mrs M
cancelled the rescheduled appointment on 5 March 2020. Both of these cancellations
happened before the UK government imposed restrictions on dental practices on 23 March
2020 due to the pandemic. And it seems likely that if either of these appointments had gone
ahead, Mrs Ms treatment wouldve been completed as planned before 9 June 2020. These
cancellations werent down to BUPA or any action on its part, or the part of its own dentists.
And they werent down to Covid-19. So while I dont dispute that Mrs M couldnt undergo
treatment following 23 March 2020, I cant fairly find that it was only Covid-19 which
prevented her completing treatment in the 2019-20 policy year.
On this basis then, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to find that BUPA
should depart from its policy terms and consider Mrs Ms claim under the old policy
entitlements. This means I think its considered her claim fairly. And while I appreciate Mrs M
felt she had little choice but to renew her policy in June 2020, when she might not otherwisehave done, the policy terms say she needed an active policy in order to be entitled to claim.
So if Mrs M hadnt renewed her policy, she wouldnt have been able to make a claim for her
dental treatment.
Is it fair for BUPA to retain the premiums Mrs M paid between 23 March and 8 June 2020?
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums
must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no
successful claim has been made under the policy.
BUPA provided cover under Mrs Ms private medical insurance policy from 10 June 2019 to
9 June 2020. BUPA is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of Mrs M
making a claim during the policy year. And the terms of Mrs Ms plan set out her cancellation
rights under the contract. These say that if she cancelled her policy within 21 days of either
receiving the policy documents, or the cover start date, shed be entitled to a full refund of
her premiums (unless any claims had been made). If Mrs M chose to cancel her policy at
any point after 21 days, BUPA would refund the premiums shed paid after the date the
cover ended. Theres no term in the contract which allows Mrs M to obtain a refund if dental
practices close. So I think it was fair for BUPA to tell Mrs M that a rebate wasnt available to
her at that point and that it was still considering its options with regard to dental
policyholders.
I dont think its accurate to say Mrs Ms policy was unusable. BUPA was offering its
policyholders the chance to use its own dentists for emergencies or remote dental
consultations. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if dental treatment
was unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. Im satisfied the closure of
private and NHS dental practices due to government restrictions between 23 March and 8
June 2020 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was outside of BUPAs control.
Did BUPA give Mrs M enough information about the available policy benefits during
lockdown?
As Ive mentioned above, BUPA was offering policyholders the chance to use its own
dentists for emergencies and it was offering remote consultations. Mrs M told us that she
hadnt been aware of these services until July 2020  which was after most dentists had
been able to reopen. Ive listened to calls between Mrs M and BUPA during lockdown when
she was considering next steps and its clear Mrs M wanted to know about how it was
responding to the pandemic. BUPA repeatedly told her a decision would be made about
dental policies and a letter would be sent. But at no point did it mention the available benefits
to her and I think, given Mrs Ms concerns, it mightve been helpful if it had done so. It also
isnt clear that Mrs M was sent anything by BUPA prior to July 2020. So I accept that BUPA
may not have given Mrs M as much information about the policy benefits as it couldve done.
But I need to consider whether I think this caused Mrs M to lose out. Mrs M said she
wouldve used one of BUPAs dentists for her treatment, if this option had been available to
her. But the treatment wasnt characterised as an emergency. She also said she did get in
touch with a BUPA dentist, but it told her it would be prioritising its own patients post 
lockdown.
I can appreciate why Mrs M wanted to get the treatment done quickly, given there
had been a risk that an emergency situation could arise while she waited for her dentist to
reopen. But as the treatment itself wasnt considered to be an emergency (and couldnt have
been done remotely), I dont think this wouldve fallen within the scope of the availablebenefits during lockdown. This means Im not persuaded that Mrs M couldve got the
treatment done any sooner even if BUPA had made the available benefits clear. So I dont
think Mrs M lost out as a result of any information failures on BUPAs part.
Overall, I dont currently think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case
to require BUPA to refund any premiums to Mrs M.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
BUPA had nothing further to add.
Mrs M disagreed. Ive summarised her response to my provisional decision. She said her 
dentist had only emphasised the two pre-Covid-19 appointment cancellations to show how 
eager shed been to get the treatment done. She said cancellations happened all the time 
and it was unreasonable for me to take these into account to not support her claim. Mrs M 
felt that but for the closure of her dentist due to Covid-19, its beyond doubt that her 
treatment wouldve happened ahead of renewal. She accepted the purpose of the policy 
terms, but this differed from what BUPA should do, given the circumstances. 
She felt BUPA hadnt given her enough information about the available benefits during the 
closure of dental practices until after the policy had renewed. When shed called a dentist 
during lockdown, shed only spoken to a receptionist, rather than a dentist. This had led her 
to believe her treatment wasnt an emergency. She felt shed have been in a far better 
position to question her treatment if shed been given clear information upfront. And she set 
out the costs shes incurred as a result of the way BUPA decided to deal with the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M, Ive decided BUPA hasnt done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mrs Ms planned dental treatment on 23 March 2020 had to be cancelled 
due to the UK lockdown. And I accept that the treatment didnt take place until after dental 
practices were able to reopen. So I do agree that the reason the treatment couldnt take 
place on 23 March 2020 was down to Covid-19. But it remains the case that Mrs Ms two 
earlier appointments, scheduled for February and early-March 2020, were cancelled for 
reasons other than Covid-19. And if either of these appointments had gone ahead as 
planned, its most likely that the treatment wouldve been completed before the policy 
renewed on 9 June 2020. So I still dont think I can fairly find that Covid-19 was the only 
reason why Mrs M wasnt able to undergo treatment within the 2019-20 policy year. 
Its clear Mrs M feels strongly that BUPAs failure to provide her with clear information about 
the available policy benefits has caused her to lose out. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied BUPA couldve given Mrs M clearer information about the benefits 
which remained available to her during her calls with it. But Im still not persuaded, on 
balance, that BUPA needs to do anything more to put this error right. Mrs M says that if 
shed been given the right information, shed have been able to question the receptionist she 
spoke to during lockdown about her treatment. Its possible Mrs M wouldve been able to 
probe further and speak to a dentist. 
But it remains the case that for Mrs Ms treatment to be covered during this period, it would 
need to be deemed to be emergency treatment. It doesnt seem that the practice Mrs M 
spoke to felt that her planned treatment was an emergency. And I havent seen any specialist dental evidence to suggest that the planned treatment was considered to be an 
emergency in and of itself. This means that even if BUPA had given Mrs M clear information 
upfront, there still isnt enough evidence to show that shed have been entitled to undergo 
the treatment as an emergency before 9 June 2020.  So I still dont think Mrs M has shown 
that BUPAs failure to give her clear information caused her to lose out.
In the round, Im still persuaded that it was fair for BUPA to deal with Mrs Ms claim in line 
with the 2020-21 policy year entitlements. And Im not telling it to refund any of the premiums 
she paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman