DRN-3093062
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of things when she 
contacted it concerning her motor insurance policy after her car caught fire. 
What happened
In early February 2021, Mrs H told Haven about a fire in her car, which was believed to have 
stemmed from an electrical fault. Haven arranged to collect the car.
Haven deemed the car a total loss. It said the pre-accident value of Mrs Hs car was £555 
(although it later indicated to our service that the value would probably have been more).  
But, in any event, as there was an excess of £200 payable for any claim and Mrs H still 
owed £832.73 towards her premium, Haven didnt think it was viable for her to make a claim. 
So, it wrote to her and said that if she didnt make a claim it could close the matter as 
notification only, which would have less effect on her future premiums than if it processed 
her claim. Mrs H then contacted Haven and said shed withdraw her claim. She asked for the 
car to be returned to her. 
Haven told Mrs H that as the car was deemed a category B total loss it couldnt return the 
car to her and would dispose of it or take it to a licenced salvage yard. Mrs H wanted to 
know why she couldnt have the car back. Haven told her she couldnt because she wasnt a 
licenced salvage yard and due to the category of total loss (B) the car couldnt go back on 
the road. Mrs H wasnt happy about that, so she complained. 
Whilst Haven was considering the complaint Mrs H called it again. It told her the car had 
been salvaged. Mrs H wasnt happy about that as she said she wanted to break the car up 
for parts and sell them on. She thought Haven had denied her that opportunity. 
In its complaint response Haven gave Mrs H similar responses to those already given. It 
added that as her insurer, it had an obligation to ensure the car wasnt put back on the road. 
It repeated that it could only dispose of it or take it to a salvage yard on Mrs Hs behalf. 
Haven said it had received £5.55 for the salvage value, which was the amount it paid to Mrs 
H. And it closed the claim as notification only. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with Havens response, so she complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and asked Haven for more information, including about the 
salvage value of Mrs Hs car. In response, Haven indicated the amount paid to Mrs H was 
wrong and didnt reflect the full salvage value. It then agreed to pay a further £219.50 to 
Mrs H (the correct salvage value being around £225.00). Our investigator didnt think Haven 
had dealt with things fairly. To settle the complaint, she recommended that Haven pay Mrs H 
the additional £219.50 mentioned and £100 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its incorrect information and service issues. Mrs H indicated she 
accepted the investigators assessment, but Haven didnt respond, despite reminders from 
our investigator. So, she told Haven and Mrs H that the matter would be referred to an 
Ombudsman. Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with our investigator that Haven hasnt handled things fairly and 
reasonably. It gave Mrs H incorrect information and paid the wrong amount for the salvage 
value of her car. And thats clearly led to increased disappointment for Mrs H. 
Havens since accepted that it didnt get things right as far as the salvage value is 
concerned. And its agreed to pay Mrs H an additional £219.50 to reflect that. I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances. But I think this matter has been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mrs H. And in those circumstances, I think Haven should pay £100 
compensation to fairly recognise that. 
Putting things right
 Haven Insurance Company Limited should now:
pay Mrs H £219.50 in respect of the additional salvage value of her car;
pay £100 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
incorrect information and initially paying the wrong salvage value for her car. 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited should settle the complaint as 
Ive indicated above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman