DRN-3504867
The complaint
Mr Ks unhappy The Chorley and District Building Society (Chorley) failed to notify him about 
a reduction to the interest rate earned on his savings. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
First, I note Mr K has referenced other errors made by Chorley during his time as a 
customer of theirs. Its important to say Ive only considered the specific 
circumstances of this complaint when reaching my decision.
Chorley have provided a copy of a letter template that wouldve been sent to Mr K 
notifying him of any changes to the rate of interest on his savings account. 
Chorley have explained they used a third-party mailing company to send the letter to 
all live accounts. 
Its not unusual for a business to send bulk communications out this way. I can see 
from the evidence provided Mr Ks details were included in the account listings.
The address held by Chorley which was provided to the third-party company for Mr K 
was correct. So, on balance, Im satisfied they made him aware the rate of the 
interest on his account was to change.
Im not disputing Mr K unfortunately didnt receive the letter, but Im satisfied that 
having looked at their records it was sent, and I cant fairly hold Chorley responsible 
for the safe delivery of mail.
Mr K says some banks send notifications such as this twice, so he thinks Chorley 
should have done.
I certainly agree that wouldve been helpful in the circumstances of this case, but 
Chorley didnt have to do this. And they had no reason to doubt their initial letter 
hadnt reached Mr K safely.
In summary, I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my findings. But, in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Chorley acted fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking them to 
do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Chorley and District 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman