The complaint
Mrs V complains about Animal Friends Insurance Services Limited (AFIS) and their 
decision to turn down the claim she made for her dogs treatment.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs Vs dog was diagnosed with a peripheral odontogenic fibroma mass in 
on its right upper canine tooth. This followed on from previous treatment Mrs Vs dog has for 
an inflamed gum in August 2019. The vet advised that the best course of treatment was for 
the tooth to be removed and submitted a pre-authorisation request to AFIS on Mrs Vs 
behalf.
AFIS responded to the pre-authorisation request explaining the treatment wouldnt be 
covered under the terms and conditions of Mrs Vs pet insurance. They explained that there 
was a specific exclusion that related to any dental or gum treatment. So, they wouldnt be 
covering any of the costs.
Mrs V was unhappy with AFISs decision to turn down her claim, so she raised a complaint. 
She said she didnt think the terms and conditions were clear or fair. She thought that as the 
condition her dog was diagnosed with didnt result from any issues with its gums or teeth, 
she didnt think it was fair not to cover her claim. So, she wanted the decision to be 
overturned and the costs of the treatment paid for.
AFIS didnt agree. They thought the mass that was removed was linked directly to the gums, 
ligament and bone. So, they thought their decision to reject the claim under the dental and 
gum treatment exclusion was fair. Mrs V was unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Although she understood Mrs 
Vs point that the mass itself didnt arise due to a dental condition, she explained the mass 
could only be found on periodontal ligament which attaches a tooth to the jaw bone. So, she 
thought AFIS had been reasonable when deciding that the treatment fell under to the dental 
and gum exclusion in the terms and conditions. Because of this, she didnt think AFIS 
needed to do anything further. 
Mrs V wasnt happy with this view. Although she understood the mass was linked to the 
ligaments found in the mouth, she thought the terms and conditions didnt make it clear 
situations such as that wouldnt be covered. As Mrs V didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1921418Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs V. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been worrying when her dog had to undergo the procedure to remove the mass. 
And Ive no doubt she took out the insurance policy to cover her costs in situations such as 
this to remove the financial worry that accompanied this. So, when AFIS explained they 
couldnt uphold her claim, I can understand the confusion and frustration this wouldve 
caused. But for me to agree that AFIS had done something wrong, Id need to see that 
theyd turned down the claim unfairly on in an unreasonable manner. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
First, Ive considered whether I think it was reasonable for AFIS to conclude the treatment 
Mrs Vs dog underwent fell under the gum and dental exclusion. The terms and conditions 
state:
1.3 Exclusions- the following are excluded from cover.
1.3.10 Any dental or gum treatment, including root canal treatment and any investigation 
costs leading up to diagnosis.
 
Although I understand Mrs Vs point that the mass itself was a benign tumour and not linked 
to a gum or dental condition, Ive seen Mrs Vs vet submitted the pre-authorisation detailing 
the claim for a mass on gum. Ive also seen that it was diagnosed as a peripheral 
odontogenic fibroma mass. This diagnosis relates specifically to the ligaments that attach a 
tooth to a jaw bone. As this ligament can only be found in the dental area, I think its 
reasonable for AFIS to conclude that any treatment to remove this fall under the gum and 
dental exclusion of the policy. So, I think AFIS acted fairly when deciding not to cover the 
costs Mrs V incurred.
Ive also considered Mrs Vs comments regarding the wording of the exclusion and whether 
they are fair and reasonable. Mrs V has explained she thought the exclusion didnt make 
clear enough that any procedure to remove a tumour or lump in a mouth would be classified 
as gum or dental treatment. But I dont think thats the case. I wouldnt expect AFIS to detail 
every condition that would be classed as gum or dental treatment. So, I wouldnt expect 
them to make a specific point of saying tumours and masses were also included. 
I think the wording makes it clear to customers that any treatment to the gums and dental 
area wouldnt be covered by the policy. And Ive seen theyve included this exclusion in 
several areas throughout their terms and conditions. So, I cant agree that the terms and 
conditions were unfair on this occasion and I dont think AFIS need to do anything further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs V was hoping for, but I hope the explanation brings 
some closure to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint about Animal Friends 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.Josh Haskey
Ombudsman