DRN-2135880
The complaint
Miss W complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined her claim on her furniture 
warranty.
What happened
Miss W bought a sofa in 2018 with a five year warranty underwritten by Amtrust. In 
February 2020 she made a claim on the warranty after her cat urinated on the sofa and left a 
stain.
Amtrust sent out a technician to inspect the damage around six weeks later. Miss W 
explained that while she had been waiting for the visit her cat had urinated again in the same 
place. 
Following the visit, Amtrust contacted Miss W to say her claim had been declined. It said that 
its technician had reported that the staining looked like it had occurred over a long period of 
time and not just from one occasion. And the warranty excludes this kind of damage. 
Miss W didnt think this was fair, she said that the cat had urinated a second time but only 
when she was waiting for someone to come and assess the claim. She complained to 
Amtrust.
Amtrust didnt uphold her complaint. It said that its technicians report had said the urine had 
soaked all the way through to the wooden frame of the sofa so this would be most likely to 
have been caused over time rather than from a single event.
Miss W didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint by upheld. She 
said that, apart from the stain, the sofa appeared to be well maintained. And she said it 
wasnt possible for the technician to inspect the wooden frame, so he couldnt have known it 
had soaked through. She thought Amtrust should accept Miss Ws claim. 
Amtrust didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has said that it declined Miss Ws claim because the policy doesnt cover gradual 
damage and it believed the staining had happened over time. 
The warranty states it covers the following:
Accidental Staining in this Plan this means sudden and unintentional spills of food, drinks, 
human & domestic pet bodily fluids, cosmetics, dyes, tar, inks, glue, soaps, wax, paints and 
caustic solutions which result in a stain.
However under the section what is not covered, it states as follows:
Any stains or damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your product becoming 
gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
So although the warranty would cover a stain caused by cat urine, it is excluded if the 
damage happened gradually over a period of time. 
When a claim on an insurance backed warranty is made, it is first for the insured to prove 
there is an incident that is covered by the policy. In this case Miss W has shown that her cat 
has urinated on the sofa and I can see this is covered. It is then for the insurer to accept the 
claim or prove that an exclusion applies. So I need to decide if Amtrust has done enough to 
show the above exclusion applies in this case and that theyve treated Miss W fairly and 
reasonably.
When it accepted the claim, Amturst sent out a technician to inspect the damage to the sofa, 
and he reported that he thought the staining had happened over time. He said in his report: 
The urine has saturated the ottoman chaise seat the wooden board and the wooden 
structure on the inside and the whole of the r/h/f arm is saturated through to the wood. So I 
can understand why Amtrust has declined the claim.
However Miss W says that when she initially made the claim there had only been one 
incident. But there was one more incident before the technician had been able to attend. 
As there are two conflicting accounts of how the damage occured, I have considered what is 
more likely. 
I have looked at the photos of the sofa, along with the account from Miss W and the report 
provided by Amtrusts technician. Although its clear that the technician thought the staining 
had happened over time, I dont think Amtrust has done enough to prove this. Ill explain 
why.
The photos provided of the sofa show a large stain. However, if a cat urinates on a sofa it is 
unlikely to only cause a small mark, as with any liquid spilt on fabric. Further the staining isnt 
consistent with what I would expect to see if it had built up gradually. Although the stain is 
large, it is light in colour and not very distinctive. There is also no visible bobbling or wearing 
of the fabric, which would likely happen if it had continually come into contact with liquid. And 
the rest of the sofa appears in good condition, with no obvious stains or marks in other 
areas. 
Miss W also reported there was a strong smell from the sofa and had removed one of the 
seat covers due to that smell. And this is to be expected from a cat urine stain. Gradual 
damage is usually when staining has built up over time without the owner taking any action. 
Due to the smell it seems less likely that Miss W would wait some time before taking action 
and let the stains build up. Particularly as the rest of the sofa is in a good state of repair.Based on the evidence I think its more likely that the stain isnt a result of gradual damage, 
but is the result of two occurrences. For this reason I dont think Amtrust has done enough to 
prove that the exclusion applies in this case. So I dont think it treated Miss W fairly by 
declining her claim. I therefore require Amtrust to consider Miss Ws claim in line with the 
other warranty terms, without applying the exclusion for gradual damage.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Amtrust Europe Limited to re-consider Miss Ws claim 
in line with the other policy terms without applying the exclusion for gradual damage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman