DRN-2177736
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Toyota Financial 
Services (UK) Plc (TFS) was misrepresented to him as he was told the car had a lower 
mileage than it actually had. He also says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the handbrake fault
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then TFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
If there was a fault with the car Mr J and Mr J returned the vehicle within the first 30 days the 
relevant legislation would allow him to reject the car without the business being provided with 
an opportunity to repair the fault.
Mr J says he had to take the car back to the dealership after only five days, to have the 
handbrake fixed. But hes not provided any further evidence to show that was the case such 
as an invoice or receipt. 
The dealership have no record of a complaint from Mr J about the handbrake and on the 
balance of evidence Ive been provided I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres been 
sufficient information provided to demonstrate there was a fault with the car that TFS would 
have been responsible for.
the mileage
If the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr J and if I believed he would not have 
proceeded with the agreement had it not been for the misrepresentation, I would ask TFS to 
take some further action.
Mr J has explained that he was told that the car had completed only 9,000 miles when it was 
supplied to him. But the business dispute that and the mileage on the finance agreement 
explains, accurately, that the mileage at the point of supply was 12,521 miles. 
Thats what the odometer would have said too, and I think its reasonable to suggest Mr J 
should have noticed that when he took receipt of the car.
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence the car was mis-sold to him and overall, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask TFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman