DRN-3441515
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr C took out the PPI at the same time as arranging his mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS no longer has any documentation from the sale, which is not surprising given how long 
ago it was, especially as the mortgage itself ended in 2003.
Mr C says he was led to believe that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage lending. Ive 
no doubt that Mr C has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, given that the 
sale was in 1996, it also wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat. Mr C 
says that the taking of the policy was certainly encouraged. It could be that he was told that it 
would be a good idea to buy it, rather than he had to buy it.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional and I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different happened 
in this case. On balance, I consider it more likely that Mr C decided to buy the policy, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
It is likely that this was an advised sale. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to Mr C, BoS 
needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for him.
Mr C would have received generous sick pay from his employer. Although this sick pay was 
technically discretionary, I take Mr Cs point that it is likely that he would have qualified for it. 
However, even in that case, I still dont think this made the PPI unsuitable. The policy would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr C would have 
received full pay for. Mr C had some savings, but having the policy would have allowed him 
to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Hes said that his wife would have helped, but having the policy would have lightened the 
burden on her income. In addition, the PPI also covered unemployment, not just accident 
and sickness.
In order to decide that the policy was mis-sold Id have to conclude that BoSs advice to buy 
it was unreasonable. I accept that Mr C was in a better position than some others might have 
been if they couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. But his other means 
werent so great as to make the recommendation unsound. It seems to me that Mr C had 
some need for the insurance and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time. Therefore, on balance, I consider it was reasonable for BoS to advise him to 
buy it.
BoS also needed to provide Mr C with enough information for him to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the PPI was right for him. I think Mr C would have known 
something about the policy  that it would have covered his mortgage repayments if he was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I doubt hed have 
decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr C probably had an interest in the PPI 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change 
his mind. So he hasnt lost out as a result of anything that BoS may have done wrong, so 
there is nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman