DRN-2234473
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) failed to provide a legible copy of her 
original credit agreement. Mrs G also complains that Lowell failed to carry out reasonable 
checks when it acquired the debt and that it cant demonstrate that the outstanding debt it 
says is owed is correct. 
What happened
Mrs G took out a personal loan in 2004 but on 20 January 2006 the account was closed and 
defaulted after repayments werent maintained. 
On 31 March 2014 Lowell purchased the debt from the original lender. On 16 July 2014 
Lowell and the original lender both wrote to Mrs G to confirm the new ownership of her 
account. 
Mrs G continued to make payments to the original lender. In January 2015 Mrs Gs 
payments were forwarded by a third party as part of a debt management plan (DMP). Mrs 
Gs payments continued to be received via third parties until June 2019. 
Last year, representatives acting for Mrs G complained and said Lowell hadnt been able to 
provide a legible copy of the credit agreement. They also said Lowell had failed to provide 
evidence to show how the outstanding balance had come about. Lowell responded on 
20 January 2020 but didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Lowell said the important information 
relating to Mrs Gs credit agreement was legible, that it was satisfied the debt had been 
legitimately acquired and that the outstanding balance is correct. 
Mrs Gs representatives referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They didnt uphold the complaint and Mrs Gs representatives asked to appeal. 
In response, the representatives raised concerns that Lowell had failed to provide a legible 
copy of the loan agreement. They also advised that Mrs Gs payments to Lowell had been 
made via third parties and that it was unfair to assume she was aware she was repaying the 
debt. As Mrs G didnt accept, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs Gs representatives for the level of detail included in their submission 
and subsequent responses to the investigator. Ive considered all the points made and 
raised both to Lowell and our investigator. Where issues raised relate to the actions of the 
original lender, I havent commented. In addition, whilst Ive read everything Mrs Gs 
representatives have said, my response focuses on what I feel are the key issues. Whilst I 
may not have commented on all the points raised, I have read an taken them into account 
when reaching my decision. My approach reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Mrs Gs representatives have pointed to industry guidance that says a business should be 
able to provide a legible copy of a consumers credit agreement. Ive read the guidance and 
Ive looked at the credit agreement we have on file. I agree that some of the wording isnt 
legible but I can read the key information relating to Mrs Gs loan. I can see her name, 
address, date of birth, the loan amount, the amount of interest, the total amount borrowed, 
the administration fee, the monthly payments required as well as Mrs Gs signature and the 
date she signed. I can also read much of the remaining information within the credit 
agreement. 
Whilst Im aware of the industry guidance referred to, our service takes a fair and reasonable 
approach to resolving complaints. Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows Mrs G did 
agree to take out a personal loan on 14 September 2004. I havent found that Lowell has 
acted unfairly by relying on the information it obtained from the original lender, including the 
credit agreement, as a basis for asking Mrs G to make repayments. 
Mrs Gs representatives have said that Lowell failed to show the amount owed was correct. 
But both Lowell and the original lender confirmed the outstanding balance in the notice of 
assignment letters they sent on 16 July 2014. If Mrs G felt the amount Lowell said was 
outstanding was wrong, Id have expected her to have raised those concerns at the time. 
But, Mrs G went on to make monthly payments to the outstanding debt for the next five 
years. I think that shows Mrs G wasnt concerned that the level of debt transferred to Lowell 
was wrong. 
In addition, Lowell has forwarded details of all the payments Mrs G made between 2014 and 
2019. Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows Lowell purchased the debt when Mrs G 
owed £9,860.06 and that it has a record of all the payments she has made from that time. 
Mrs Gs representatives also say that the debt was paid as part of a DMP including around 
50 debts and that she cant reasonably be expected to have been aware she was paying 
Lowell. Im not persuaded Mrs G was unaware of the debt with Lowell. Whilst I can see the 
vast majority of Mrs Gs payments have come via third parties, Im satisfied that she agreed 
to make repayments as part of the terms of her DMPs and that she would have been aware 
of the debts included. I also think its reasonable to note that more than one third party has 
acted for Mrs G during the period she made payments to Lowell and that each would have to 
be satisfied she was aware of the debts and could afford to repay them before negotiating a 
DMP for her. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but, for the reasons Ive given above, I havent been persuaded 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman