DRN-3787951
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy about the charges that are showing on her property at the Land Registry. 
She initially said that she wanted the charge removed in respect of a secured loan that is 
being administered by Target Servicing Limited trading as Target Loan Servicing, and later 
said that Target had told her that two charges would be removed but then said they wouldnt 
be.
What happened
In 2008 Miss T took out a secured loan with a lender that Ill refer to as W. She borrowed 
£5,000 over a five-year term. The credit agreement showed that if all payments were made 
in full and on time, and the interest rate remained the same, that Miss T would repay around 
£8,600 over the term of the loan.
Unfortunately in August 2011 Miss T went into arrears on her account for a few months, she 
made overpayments for eleven months to catch up (until August 2012) but then she only 
made two further payments (in January and February 2013) before the term ended in June 
2013. This meant, at the time the term ended, there was still a balance outstanding. No 
interest has been charged on that outstanding balance.
In 2018 the loan was transferred from W to a lender Ill refer to as C. C appointed Target to 
administer the loan on its behalf. Letters were sent out about the arrears.
In May 2022 Miss T called Target to complain. She said shed received a letter about the 
loan and she was in the process of selling the property, but her solicitor had told her there 
were two charges showing at the Land Registry.
Target didnt uphold the complaint saying that there was an outstanding balance of around 
£1,600. It said once the balance is cleared, it would look to remove any charges in relation to 
this loan from the Land Registry.
Miss T referred the complaint to us, adding that she was initially told that both charges would 
be removed from the property and later that only one would be.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He said he could see there had been confusion 
about whether or not C held both charges, but that was cleared up relatively quickly. He said 
the 2008 loan hadnt been repaid in full so the charge for that needed to remain until the 
money was repaid, and as the other charge wasnt held with C then it  and/or Target  
couldnt remove the charge.
Miss T didnt agree, saying it wasnt clear that only one charge would be removed when this 
loan account is repaid. As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the transaction history of the 2008 loan account and Im satisfied that, despite 
the term ending in 2013, due to the number of missed payments a balance of around £1,600 
was still outstanding when C took over the loan in 2018. 
The loan was secured on Miss Ts property, and until the loan is repaid in full it is reasonable 
that the charge remains in place. For that reason, there are no grounds for me to say the 
charge relating to this loan should be removed or that the outstanding sum doesnt need to 
be paid.
Miss T has said that Target misled her into thinking another charge would also be removed 
when she repays this loan. According to the records, the other charge is from 2005 and isnt 
held by C. Having considered everything Im satisfied that doesnt relate to this secured loan, 
and so C (and/or Target) would be unable to arrange for it to be removed when this loan is 
repaid. That charge doesnt relate to a loan that was ever held with C and so it cant get 
involved in the removal of it. I understand Miss Ts solicitor was looking into this for her, and 
that seems the best way forward.
It is clear there has been confusion about the charges, and Miss T has placed a great deal of 
emphasis on the call of 11 July. However, even if I were to say that Target misled Miss T into 
believing both charges would be removed (which Im not making a finding on either way) 
then it wouldnt follow that Target now had to do so. 
This is what we call a misrepresentation; that is, if Target gave incorrect information to 
Miss T about whether both charges would be removed. When were looking at complaints 
about misrepresentation we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the 
position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in 
the position they would be in if the misinformation had been correct (that is, that both 
charges would be removed). 
Miss T is already back in the position she would have been in had she been clearly told on 
11 July that only the 2008 charge would be removed, as that information was given to Miss T 
just a few weeks later on 27 July. She could never have been in the position where C (and/or 
Target) would remove both charges. For that reason, there are no grounds for me to order 
Target to do anything further in respect of this issue.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this complaint because:
There was still a balance outstanding on the loan therefore Miss T needs to repay 
that.
The loan is secured against the property therefore the charge will remain until the 
loan is repaid.
Miss T was told on 27 July that only the 2008 charge would be removed, and so any 
potential misrepresentation was resolved at that point which was just 16 days after 
the call where the initial confusion came about.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 Julia Meadows
Ombudsman