DRN-3535484
The complaint
Miss O complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to record a fraud marker against 
her name.
What happened
Miss O held an account with Barclays for a number of years. In 2018, Barclays received a 
report from another bank to inform them that Miss O had been the recipient of fraudulent 
funds. Barclays carried out an investigation and decided to end their relationship with Miss 
O. The account was closed and Barclays registered a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System (CIFAS) marker against Miss O.
In 2020, Miss O realised she was struggling to open other bank accounts. One bank 
informed her to get a copy of her credit file and she noticed the CIFAS marker - she 
complained to Barclays. Barclays investigated things and Miss O informed them she thought 
her ex-partner had used her account fraudulently, and without her permission. Barclays 
reviewed things and noticed that the correct PIN and card had been used and cash 
withdrawals in branch were made so they were satisfied Miss O was involved. Barclays 
responded to Miss Os complaint and explained they wouldnt be removing the CIFAS 
marker. 
Since the complaint was with our service, Miss O got in touch to say she found out from a 
mutual friend that her account had been used fraudulently by her ex-best friend  not her ex-
partner. Miss O explained that her ex-best friend had asked to use her account for money 
transfers, and Miss O agreed without asking any further questions.
Our investigator responded to the complaint and explained that as Miss O had allowed a 
third party to use her account, she also accepted responsibility for their actions. And our 
investigator explained that there were no reports of unauthorised use made from Miss O to 
Barclays and therefore, she thought Barclays were reasonable to hold Miss O responsible 
and register the CIFAS marker.
Miss O disagreed. She explained that it didnt make sense for her to open the account in 
2013 and wait until 2018 to commit fraud. Miss O stated that she was innocent, and she 
thinks Barclays may have racially profiled her and assumed she was guilty because of her 
race.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether it was fair of Barclays to apply the marker, based on the evidence and 
what the rules say about applying such markers. 
Was the fraud marker applied fairly?
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently. This type of marker will 
stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult for a customer to take out new 
financial products as Miss O has encountered. In order to file such a marker, Barclays arent 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss O is guilty of a fraud of financial crime, 
but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS 
says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or 
financial crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
 The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Miss Os account or fraudulent funds have entered 
Miss Os account and were either moved on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to 
have strong evidence to show that Miss O was deliberately dishonest in receiving the 
fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. But a marker 
should not be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough 
evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
Its not in dispute that the funds that entered Miss Os account were fraudulent and she didnt 
have any legitimate reason to receive these into her account. So, I have carefully considered 
whether Barclays could conclude she was deliberately dishonest in the receipt and utilisation 
of these funds and not an unwitting money mule. Having done so, I do think there is enough 
evidence to suggest that Barclays could reasonably conclude Miss O had been deliberately 
dishonest. Ill explain why:
I havent seen any evidence of reports of unauthorised use from Miss O to Barclays 
at the time the account was used (2018) until 2020 when she became aware of the 
CIFAS marker.
The contact notes from Barclays show Miss O initially told them she didnt know who 
transferred the money, and then changed to confirm the money received could have 
been from her estranged father. Further conversations show that Miss O thought it 
was her ex-partner and has since changed to her ex-best friend. I dont consider in 
the circumstances; Miss Os story has been inconsistent.
Miss O has confirmed to our service that she often let other people use her account 
to move money around and she had a close relationship with both her ex-partner and 
her ex-best friend 
Miss O confirms she shared her PIN and therefore I consider Miss O and the 
individual in question had an agreement which extends beyond this one payment.
Money was withdrawn in branch, and therefore the individual who withdrew the 
money would have needed the card, PIN, Miss Os date of birth, and to match Miss 
Os description. I dont consider there is any other reasonable explanation on how 
this could have been varied out without Miss Os consent.
Miss O is responsible for the use of her own account; and therefore should have 
been aware of why it was being used by third-parties.
In summary, Im satisfied that by her own admission Miss O gave someone permission to 
use her account  and it was then used to receive and pass on fraudulent funds. Based on 
all of the available evidence and arguments, Im more persuaded that Miss O was an active participant in what happened. Miss Os testimony has been inconsistent and contradictory at 
points. So, I think it was fair for Barclays to register the appropriate fraud marker.
Discrimination
Miss O has said she believes Barclays racially profiled her and assumed she was guilty. This 
is a serious allegation for Miss O to make, and one Ive thought about carefully. Ive 
explained above why I consider Barclays actions to be fair in the circumstances of whats 
happened. Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays made their decision based on Miss Os 
race or any other characteristic. Therefore, I wont be upholding the complaint on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman