DRN-3830759
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr G made the complaint, for ease, Ive referred simply to him throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr G holds travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
Mr G was due to fly abroad in July 2022. He was due to travel to a country Ill call T, via 
another country. Unfortunately, the day before he was due to travel, Mr Gs connecting flight 
was cancelled by the airline. Mr G says there were no alternative, viable routes to travel to T 
and so he had no choice but to cancel the whole trip. He was able to recover some costs, 
but he made a cancellation claim on the policy for his irrecoverable costs.
UKI turned down Mr Gs claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered by the 
policy terms.
Mr G was unhappy with UKIs decision, and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think itd been 
unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr Gs claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr G disagreed. He said hed been left out of pocket through no fault of his own. While he 
accepted that the policy didnt stipulate payment, he thought that any consumer selecting a 
travel insurance policy would naturally assume that reimbursement through cancellation 
would be covered as standard.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Gs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether UKI treated 
him fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr G found himself was completely outside of his 
control. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to 
decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. 
Therefore, UKIs obligations under its contract with Mr G are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr Gs policy says that UKI will cover the cancellation of a policyholders trip if cancellation is 
down to one of the following, listed, insured events:
One of the following people dies, is seriously injured or is seriously ill: 
any insured person; 
your travelling companion; 
a close relative;
a close business associate; or
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with. 
One of the following people is quarantined, is called for jury service or is called as a 
witness in a court of law: 
any insured person; 
your travelling companion; or
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with. 
One of the following people is made redundant and registered for a Jobseekers 
Agreement with the Department for Work & Pensions, or is a member of the British 
armed forces or Emergency Services and authorised leave is cancelled due to an 
unexpected emergency:  any insured person; or  your travelling companion. 
One of the following people is required to stay at their home as a result of it being 
seriously damaged by fire, storm, flood or due to a burglary in the seven days before 
departure on your trip: 
any insured person; or
your travelling companion. 
Your pet cat or dog requiring life saving treatment in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip. 
Your passport or visa being stolen in a burglary in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you being unable to arrange a replacement in time.
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination, providing the advice came into force 
after you opened your Platinum account or booked your trip (whichever was the later) 
and was in the 28 days before your departure on your trip. 
You are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation because the 
accommodation or immediately surrounding area is adversely affected by natural 
disaster.
In my view, UKI has clearly set out the specific, defined events for which it provides 
cancellation cover. Mr Gs trip couldnt go ahead because of the cancellation of a connecting 
flight by an airline. This simply isnt an event which UKI covers under the cancellation section 
of the policy.
Id add too that UKI has set out a list of General Exclusions which apply to the whole policy. 
One of these exclusion says that UKI wont pay for:any loss not specifically covered by this policy.
Like the investigator, Ive looked carefully at the remaining sections of the contract. But there 
simply isnt any section which provides cover in the circumstances in which Mr G 
unfortunately found himself.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Gs position, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct UKI to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman