DRN-2768375
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. My references to Great Lakes include its 
agents.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 29 February 2020, to cover a holiday from 7 to 21 May 2020. 
Mr and Mrs M paid £172.11 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
covered Mr and Mrs Ms declared medical conditions. Mr and Mrs M also paid an additional 
premium of £43.16 for optional cruise plus cover. The premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their 
travel insurance policy, including the additional cover options, included a discount of £29.66  
On or about 30 March 2020 the cruise company cancelled Mr and Mrs Ms holiday. On 
1 April 2020 Mr M contacted the broker to ask for a cash refund of their travel insurance 
policy premiums. 
Great Lakes said it wouldnt offer a full cash refund of the premiums as the 14 day 'cooling 
off' period had expired and under its policy terms no refund was payable outside that period. 
Great Lakes also said it had given cancellation of trip cover since the policy was taken out 
on 29 February 2020. It offered a pro-rata credit voucher of £97.24, valid for 36 months, to 
buy a new policy with it. Alternatively it offered Mr and Mrs M the opportunity to move the 
single trip dates to within 18 months of the original policy purchase date, providing the 
duration and destination were the same (or a premium may be charged) and the original 
policy dates had not already expired. 
Great Lakes hadnt included the premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their cruise plus cover 
within its calculations. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to Great Lakes and then brought their complaint to our 
service. They said they wanted a cash refund as due to their age and health they did not 
intend to travel abroad within the 36 months the voucher was valid, the cruise was for a 
special occasion which had now passed and a voucher would be worthless to them. They 
also said it was unfair for Great Lakes to take their money and provide no insurance cover 
for the cruise which could not take place. Mr M emphasised that he hadnt asked 
Great Lakes to cancel the policy, he had requested a premium refund as Great Lakes could 
not insure a cruise that did not happen.
Our investigator said Great Lakes needed to recalculate the pro-rata credit voucher so that it 
refunded the whole of the optional cruise plus cover. Great Lakes agreed and revised the  
pro-rata voucher offer to £149.03. The voucher was valid from 6 April 2021 (when 
Great Lakes issued the voucher to Mr and Mrs M) to 6 April 2024.
Mr and Mrs M initially reluctantly agreed to the voucher, understanding that it was 
transferable to a third party. However when they received the voucher it said it was not 
transferable. Great Lakes confirmed to our investigator that the voucher was transferable 
and it also emailed Mr M to confirm the same. Mr and Mrs M were not reassured and say the 
terms of the voucher are too restrictive and they want a cash refund. 
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes to clarify the terms of the alternative offer to 
change the single trip dates. Great Lakes said the option was no longer available as the 
policy end date expired on 21 May 2020.  
I also asked Great Lakes to clarify its recalculation of the pro-rata credit voucher, which it 
did. But it had taken the date of calculation as being from 1 April 2020 whereas we generally 
require a business to calculate their pro-rata refunds for single trip policies from the day the 
trip was cancelled. Mr M had told us that was 28 March 2020. But the most persuasive 
evidence was that the cancellation of trip date was 30 March 2020, which Mr and Mrs M 
accepted for the purpose of the calculation. Great Lakes recalculated the pro-rata credit to 
be £154.01 and offered a voucher to that value valid for 36 months. Mr and Mrs M accepted 
the amount but want a cash refund, not a voucher. Mr M said he has very recently seen his 
doctor who had doubled the daily dosage of one of his blood pressure pills and wanted to 
monitor his blood pressure. Mr M said travel abroad was not recommended due to the 
increased stress of travel in future.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
I understand Mr M didnt tell Great Lakes that he wanted the policy cancelled. But by asking 
for a refund of the policy premiums, as he no longer needed the policy, he was in effect 
asking for the policy to be cancelled. I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably by taking 
1 April 2020, when Mr M asked for a refund, to be the date of policy cancellation. If it hadnt 
then the policy would have continued to its end date so the value of any pro-rata voucher 
would be nil. There would still be no basis for a cash refund, as Ill explain below.  So I will 
be referring to cancellation of the policy as in effect that is what happened. 
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs M held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel.   
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs M had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they would not be 
entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of 
them cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that 
time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These apply to both the basic policy and to any 
additional cover options purchased and say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mr Ms cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy was purchased on 
29 February 2020 and cancelled on 1 April 2020. This was more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs M are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip 
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control.So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart 
from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ms contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 29 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs M werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered Mr and Mrs M for cancellation cover from 29 February 2020. So, the premium Mr 
and Mrs M paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a 
number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr and Mrs M falling 
ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs M making a successful claim under the 
basic policy from 29 February 2020 until their holiday was cancelled on 30 March 2020. 
Great Lakes would have covered the risk of Mr and Mrs M making a successful claim under 
their cruise plus cover from their intended departure date. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ms 
cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered during that time. 
However, after 30 March 2020 due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under 
Mr and Mrs Ms single trip travel insurance policy. The holiday had already been cancelled 
due to Covid-19 and I have seen no evidence that Great Lakes has paid a claim in relation to 
this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for 
any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was 
also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Mrs M were travelling 
abroad.   
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from 30 March 2020, when the holiday was cancelled. 
I think Great Lakes should refund the premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their cruise plus cover 
in full. Cruise plus cover provides a benefit in the event of missed port departure, cabin 
confinement, itinerary change, unused excursions and cruise interruption. 
So this cover would only have provided a benefit in the event of a claim occurring while 
Mr and Mrs M were on their cruise. Mr and Mrs M didnt travel, so Great Lakes didnt ever 
cover the risk of a claim being made under this particular additional cover option. 
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for the 
additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be difficult to 
tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mr and Mrs M didnt travel on 
their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under the additional 
cover options attached to their single trip insurance policy. 
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover 
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra cover 
at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been calculated 
on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the policy. However, 
the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip insurance policy, so I dont 
think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the additional cover options which 
Mr and Mrs M paid for any differently. 
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Ms 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ms reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs M entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. 
Although Mr and Mrs M say Great Lakes took the premium but provided no cover for the  
cruise it provided cancellation cover before the trip and by paying a refund by way of a 
voucher means the remaining risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs M. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and can be used to 
purchase a new single trip or annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. I accept the last 
voucher sent to Mr and Mrs M said it isnt transferable but Great Lakes emailed Mr M to 
clearly confirm that the voucher is transferrable, which I think was reasonable action for it to 
take.
The revised voucher following Great Lakes most recent recalculation should be on the same 
terms and I am satisfied that the voucher can be used by either Mr and Mrs M or by a third 
party.
I understand why Mr and Mrs M may not wish to use a voucher. They say their age and 
health means they are unlikely to travel in the future and I appreciate that the policy was to 
cover a cruise to mark a special personal occasion for them. Mr M has recently had 
increased blood pressure which he says will prevent him from travelling abroad. But if they 
think future travel for them isnt feasible the voucher is transferable so they are able to, for 
example, offer it to family and friends if they dont want to use it.
I understand Mr and Mrs M strongly prefer to have a cash refund, not a voucher. But as Ive 
outlined above there is no requirement under the policy terms or the industry rules for 
Great Lakes to give them a cash refund for all or some of the original premium. The offer of 
a pro-rata credit voucher also goes beyond what Great Lakes is required to do. Although 
having the voucher is more restrictive than a cash refund I dont think the terms of 
Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher is a fair offer in the 
circumstances.The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break down the premium for the basic policy or the additional cover 
options into pre-travel cancellation and post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged 
is split equally across the whole period of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances. 
The premium Mr and Mrs M paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 83 days 
from 29 February 2020 to 21 May 2020. So any pro-rata refund should equate to the 
premiums equivalent to the unused days of cover from 30 March 2020, when the holiday 
was cancelled, until the original end date of the insurance policy on 21 May 2020.
Putting things right
Great Lakes has now updated its calculation of the value of Mr and Mrs Ms voucher on the 
basis of a pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from 
the date their holiday was cancelled and a full refund of the premium paid for the cruise plus 
cover. I think the updated settlement offer of a voucher for £154.01 is fair.  
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE to the extent Ive outlined 
above as I think the updated settlement offer is fair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman