DRN-2085873
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy he took out in 1989. He believes 
the policy was mis-sold as it was unsuitable for his needs. He has said he was told that if he 
ever stopped paying into the policy his money would stay invested and carry on gaining in 
value until encashed. Mr C has also said that he was led to believe he couldnt cash the 
policy in until he was 65.
ReAssure Limited took over responsibility for policies sold by the original product provider 
and is responsible for the advice Mr C is complaining about. As such, I will refer to ReAssure 
throughout, even where actions were taken by previous providers of the policy.
What happened
The application form completed at the time of the sale detailed that Mr C was a managing 
director in manufacturing. He was 39 years old. The policy applied for was a Homeplan 
mortgage endowment with a sum assured of £39,950 and a term of 15 years. The monthly 
premium was £136.87 and paid by direct debit. The premiums were invested in a managed 
fund. It was documented that the policy was to be used in conjunction with a mortgage of the 
same amount and term, and the lender was detailed on the application form. 
Mr C signed an execution-only declaration as part of the application process, which stated:
I confirm that, in relation to the sale of the above investment contract, I am an execution-only 
customer, i.e. that:
(1) The sale of the contract is the direct result of my request to purchase that particular 
contract
(2) I did not seek any advice from and was not given any advice by, General Portfolio Life 
Insurance PLC, or any of its company representatives in connection with this purchase.
When the policy was issued Mr C was sent the policy schedule. This gave details of the 
policy and premium. It documented that the policy matured on the 15th anniversary of the 
date of commencement. It also detailed that on the survival of the life assured at the maturity 
date the policy would pay a sum equal to the units attributed to the policy on the maturity 
date. A copy of the policy terms and conditions were enclosed with this document. These 
explained what would happen if premiums stopped being paid.
In the spring of 1991 the policy was assigned to a mortgage lender as security for a 
mortgage in Mr Cs name. Shortly thereafter Mr C cancelled the direct debit mandate and 
stopped paying premiums. ReAssure said that when this happened it would have written to 
Mr C, asked him to set up a new direct debit and set out what would happen if he didnt. 
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, ReAssure has been unable to provide a copy of 
this letter.
As premiums werent paid, the policy was made paid-up whereby the policy remained 
active in that the protection benefits were maintained and paid for by deductions from the 
policy value. The policy value was exhausted by these deductions in 1999 and it lapsed 
without value.
In 2005 Mr C contacted ReAssure about his policy and was told that it had lapsed without 
value in 1999. 
In 2017 Mr C again made enquiries about the policy and was told the premiums had ceased 
being paid in 1991. ReAssure confirmed he would have been sent a letter about this at that 
time. The policy value had been used to maintain the protection benefits thereafter until the 
fund value was exhausted in 1999. 
Mr C complained to ReAssure about the sale of the policy in August 2019. ReAssure 
responded to the complaint and explained that as Mr C hadnt received advice from one of 
its advisers before taking out the policy, it wasnt responsible for whether the policy was 
suitable for him. Mr C wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and referred his complaint 
to this service. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint, but she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view of his complaint. He sent in unit statements from 
1995 and 1996 showing the value of the plan had increased between the dates of the two 
statements. He questioned how the policy could have no value three years later. Mr C also 
said he had no recollection of having a mortgage with the lender or dealings with the solicitor 
detailed on the application form. He recollected that he was told this was an investment plan 
(invested in the stockmarket) and the adviser approached him at his place of work. Mr C also 
questioned why he was not allowed to surrender the policy on the numerous occasions he 
asked to.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint which I will deal with separately  the original sale of 
the policy and its value and administration following Mr C stopping paying the policy 
premiums. 
Mr C has said that an adviser approached him at his place of work in 1989 and advised him 
to take out the endowment policy. Hes said he was told it was a stockmarket-linked 
investment plan, which couldnt be cashed in until his retirement  Mr Cs state retirement 
age at the time would have meant a term of 26 years. Mr C has also said he has no 
recollections of a mortgage with the lender detailed on the application and didnt buy a new 
property until two years later when the policy was assigned to that lender. 
However, ReAssure has provided an execution-only declaration signed by Mr C, indicating 
he didnt receive any advice, which means he selected the policy type and details of the 
policy himself. 
Mr C has said the policy was not taken out for a mortgage in 1989 and he was not aware 
that it was a mortgage endowment. However, the policy application that Mr C signed 
indicated the policy was taken for that purpose. In addition, the product name of Homeplan 
would rather indicate it was to be linked to a house purchase. I also note that when Mr C bought a property in 1991 the policy was assigned to the mortgage on that property, which 
would indicate that in 1991 he was aware of what type of policy hed taken out. 
It is not possible for me to determine whether or not there was a mortgage being arranged in 
1989. It is possible there was, but it didnt complete. However, whatever the situation in 
1989, I think it likely Mr C knew the policy existed and what type of policy it was as he used it 
for the mortgage he took out in 1991. It would also appear that he knew about the 
investment medium for the policy as hes said he understood it to be invested in the 
stockmarket, which a managed fund does invest in.
Mr Cs policy was sold in the early days of regulation and we have seen execution-only 
declarations completed for some sales from around that time which probably shouldnt have 
been because limited advice was given. It is possible that is the situation here and a financial 
adviser did have some input into the selection of the policy arranged. Unfortunately, because 
of the passage of time there is very limited information available and it isnt possible to know 
for certain at this juncture what the situation was. However, as Ive said above, it would 
appear that at the time Mr C knew what he was taking out and it may have been needed.
In relation to the policy lapsing, Mr C has said in his complaint that he believed it would 
remain invested and it would continue to grow until his retirement. As I have said, the policy 
had a term of 15 years and that was clear on the documentation from both the time of 
application and after the policy was set up. The documentation was clear about what would 
happen at the end of the term and, the terms and conditions, set out what would happen if 
Mr C stopped paying the premiums and didnt surrender the policy. 
I have looked at the unit statements from 1995 and 1996 that have been provided. 
Unfortunately, neither Mr C nor ReAssure is able to provide the later statements or any 
communication from the time the policy lapsed. However, the benefit costs for a man of 
Mr Cs age would not have been negligible as they may have been if hed been younger  
life cover and associated benefit costs will generally increase with age. In addition, the 
performance of the global financial markets, and so the value of stockmarket based 
investments, declined in the late 1990s. This is what triggered the wholesale mortgage 
endowment review process that started in 2000. As such, it is entirely plausible that the 
value of the policy would have been shown to be decreasing in the unit statements from 
1997 onwards. 
I note that Mr C has said he tried to surrender the policy on numerous occasions, but was 
told he couldnt. As I have detailed above, ReAssure only has records of contact about the 
policy after the policy no longer had a value. Had Mr C believed the policy had a term to his 
retirement and would keep a value until that time, I would have expected him to question that 
he was being told the policy had no value.
I know that Mr C doesnt accept the policy ceased to have a value in 1999. However, that is 
what the records ReAssure has shown and that situation is entirely plausible in the 
circumstances. I have seen nothing that leads me to believe something happened other than 
the policy value was affected by the general financial situation and was further eroded due to 
the cost of the policy benefits, as ReAssure has said it was. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
22 October 2020.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman