DRN-3340020
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by BMW Financial Services (GB)
Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
Mr C has been represented by a third party throughout his complaint. However for clarity,
Ive only referred to Mr C in this decision.
Mr C acquired a used hybrid car under a 49 month hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in 
November 2019. The car was around four years old and had covered around 28,364 miles 
when it was acquired. The car cost £31,750.
The day after acquiring the car, Mr C contacted the supplying dealership to let it know the 
hybrid car battery wasnt charging as expected. Mr C said he expected the car to be able to 
achieve around 19 miles on electric power. He returned the car to the supplying dealership 
so it could carry out tests. In the meantime, he contacted BMWFS to report the problem with 
the hybrid battery on 17 December 2019. He collected the car from the supplying dealership 
on 21 December 2019, following it carrying out a reconditioning of the hybrid battery and 
telling Mr C the car was showing a range of 11 miles when the hybrid battery was charged 
fully.
Unhappy with this, Mr C emailed BMWFS later that month and told it:
he chose that model of the car due to the hybrid battery advertised range of 19 miles, 
which suited his needs. But he could only achieve a range between four and seven 
miles on a full charge.
the supplying dealership told him the three-pin cable would be suitable for charging 
at home, but he said he had since been told this should only be used for occasional 
use as it can damage the hybrid battery.
he had raised concerns with the supplying dealership about the media entertainment 
system before acquiring the car. He says he wasnt told part of the system required 
an annual subscription
one of the keys had bad cosmetic damage with broken plastic casing and 
discoloration.
all four alloy wheel centre caps were damaged with visible areas of surface plastic 
missing. 
a piece of the metal trim in the boot was broken and had come away from the body of 
the car  but this had been replaced by the supplying dealership.
one of the tyres, which was brand new, had a tread depth of 6mm when it should be 
8mm. 
there was a rattle from the boot whilst he was driving the car. This was caused due to 
incorrectly positioned latches which had since been adjusted by the supplying 
dealership. 
the issue with the hybrid battery capacity meant that the car was inefficient when 
considering miles per gallon, running costs and environmental considerations. 
the rear passenger floor mat was missing. 
he wanted to exercise his right to reject the car.
In February 2020, BMWFS looked into Mr Cs complaint. It said, in summary, that electric 
range is only a guide and this will vary. It said whilst Mr C had said the car he had acquired 
could only achieve between four and seven miles when fully charged, the dealer had 
achieved higher numbers than this and it couldnt find a fault. It also said it understood that 
the use of a three-pin plug for home charging was acceptable. It confirmed the supplying 
dealership had rectified the other issues which were expected due to the age and mileage of 
the car. 
Mr C continued to complain to BMWFS. He said the information provided to him about the 
range the car could achieve was incorrect. He said he was induced into entering into the 
agreement as a result of the incorrect information provided to him. He also referred his 
complaint to this service in August 2020. He said he stopped using the car two weeks after 
he acquired it and he acquired another car under a separate finance agreement.
In September 2020, Mr C told BMWFS that the car had broken down and been recovered to 
a garage. He said the fault messages appearing said the cars hybrid battery wasnt being 
charged and there was a drivetrain fault. The garage said it would need to remove the hybrid 
battery to inspect the individual cells but if it did this, historic data would be lost. In     
October 2020, BMWFS said it recommended that Mr C allowed the garage to carry out the 
investigation and repair work. It said if a fault was found and due to the amount of time that 
had passed, it was entitled to an opportunity to repair the car. It said it would arrange a loan 
car for Mr C whilst the investigation was being carried out.
In October 2020, Mr C responded and said he had told the supplying dealership about the 
issue with the electric range within 30 days of acquiring the car and it had carried out a 
repair by conditioning the hybrid battery. He said as the car had been with the supplying 
dealership for 235 days before it was sold to Mr C, this period of inactivity was wholly or in 
part a cause of the degradation of the hybrid battery cells.
Our investigator looked into the complaint in August 2021. He thought Mr C should be 
entitled to reject the car, as he thought it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Mr C. He thought a range between four and seven miles was significantly lower 
than what a reasonable person would expect considering the age, mileage and price of the 
car. He recommended BMWFS take back Mr Cs car, end the agreement, refund the deposit 
and any rentals paid since December 2019, pay 20% of any monthly rentals until December 
2019, pay 8% simple interest on the refunded amounts and remove any adverse information 
from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C agreed with the investigator and said he was prepared to accept the outcome to draw 
the complaint to a close. He also mentioned some additional costs such as insurance for the 
car, the cost of a hire car, the cost of a tyre, DVLA fees and the cost of insurance for another 
car he had obtained.
BMWFS disagreed and said neither the supplying dealership nor Mr C had been able to find 
a fault with the hybrid battery of the car. It said the performance of the hybrid battery was 
dependent on a number of factors, such as how the car was used and the conditions it was 
used in. It also said there were no issues with the combustion engine, so Mr C was still able 
to use the car.As BMWFS remained in disagreement, the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2022, in which I said the following:
Following repairs being carried out to the car by the supplying dealership, Mr C only 
appears to be complaining about the hybrid battery and the three-pin charging plug that was 
supplied to him. So my provisional decision has only focused on these two complaint points. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr C has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and considered it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire purchase 
agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. 
The car Mr C acquired was from a premium manufacturer, around four years old and it had 
covered around 28,364 miles at the time it was supplied. He was paying nearly £450 a 
month to hire the car and paid a deposit of £500. The car was used, so I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be perfect. But, thinking about the price paid and the 
model, I do think they would expect it to be in good condition and free from any faults at the 
point of supply. 
In this case, on 2 December 2019, around 12 days after Mr C acquired the car, he took it 
back to the supplying dealership. At this point the mileage was 28,663. 
What I need to consider here is whether the hybrid battery was performing as it should. I 
then need to think about whether this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Mr C complained about the range the hybrid battery was able to achieve. Ive thought about 
how I think the hybrid battery should have operated, given the age, mileage and price Mr C 
paid at the time the car was supplied to Mr C.
At the time Mr C obtained the car, the manufacturers website stated, when running on 
electricity alone, the vehicle has a range of approx. 19 miles (31km). Figures according to 
EU test cycle for plug-in hybrid vehicles, may vary depending on the tyre format specified.
The website explains the range can be affected by a number of factors such as the external 
temperature, use of air conditioning or heating, the load carried and driving style. Ive also considered the discussions between the manufacturer and BMWFS. In an email the 
manufacturer explained: 
With any vehicle, regardless of being an PHEV or not, the range available in both fuel 
capacity (MPG) and battery rage is merely a guide of figures/range that can be achieved, 
however how they can be achieved is a different matter depending on the testing factors. I 
am sure you can both agree, the literature supplied by (manufacturer name) states that MPG 
or electric only range is up to a certain figure.
From this, I understand the range of around 19 miles per full charge was only obtainable in 
certain test conditions. I dont think its likely that Mr C was driving the car in the same test 
conditions. And I note that Mr C obtained the car towards the end of the year, when external 
temperatures are generally colder. This is likely to have had an impact on the range of the 
cars hybrid battery as soon as Mr C drove it. So, I dont think the fact the car couldnt drive 
19 miles on electric power only means that there was something wrong with it. 
But, Mr C complained that he could only get the car to achieve a range of up to seven miles 
on a full charge. The supplying dealerships technician looked into this. Ive seen a copy of 
the job card and the notes show that Mr C complained the car is only achieving a range of 
10 miles. The technician has handwritten next to this, Only (unclear) 4-6 miles. This 
suggests that the technician found the cars range was between four and six miles on a full 
charge. This is less than Mr C reported at the time. Following this, the supplying dealership 
emailed Mr C and told him they were able to increase the mileage to seven miles. And when 
they returned the car, they said they conditioned the hybrid battery and had managed to 
increase the cars range to show as 11 miles after a full charge. 
The supplying dealership in an email to Mr C said: 
I appreciate this is way off what (manufacturer name) Quote when the vehicle was NEW. 
But we do not know how the previous owner drove or used it, so they may never have used 
the hybrid battery system at all. We simply do not know. 
Electric and hybrid vehicles can suffer with range depletion as they get older, we cannot fault 
the battery system as the codes we initially had have not come back after extensive road 
conditioning and testing. 
However, Mr C says the car continued to be unable to achieve a range showing higher than 
around nine miles. 
The technology in the car is connected to an app which can be controlled on a mobile phone 
device. This shows the charging status and the amount of mileage the car can achieve. Mr C 
has provided a screenshot of the app which he says is from after the hybrid battery was 
conditioned. This shows the range of the car is nine miles with a fully charged hybrid battery. 
Mr C has also provided a set of pictures showing the dashboard of his car. One of these 
pictures show the hybrid battery is 100% charged and there is a range of nine miles. Another 
set shows the hybrid battery fully charged with a range of 11 miles, but subsequent pictures 
from the same journey show the hybrid battery being near depletion after the car has 
travelled just seven miles. 
Overall, I accept the 19 miles advertised range is only obtainable in certain test conditions.. 
And I appreciate over the lifetime of a hybrid battery, it will become less efficient. However, I 
wouldnt reasonably expect a four year old car which has only covered around 29,000 miles 
to only achieve around half of the advertised range. Im satisfied the evidence provided by Mr C demonstrates the hybrid batterys lifespan continued to deteriorate despite a repair 
being carried out.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied the car supplied to Mr C wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
So, Ive thought about what BMWFS should do to put things right. 
Im satisfied Mr C exercised his short term right to reject the car. As I think the car supplied 
to Mr C wasnt of satisfactory quality, I think Mr C should have been entitled to reject it. So 
BMWFS should end the hire purchase agreement and collect the car from the supplying 
dealership at no further cost to Mr C. It should also refund the deposit Mr C paid and pay any 
applicable interest. 
Email correspondence from before the car was supplied to Mr C suggests that Mr C needs 
to pay a deposit of £1,000 to acquire the car. However, the sales invoice for the car only lists 
a deposit of £500. And the finance agreement lists that no deposit has been paid. Mr C 
hasnt provided supporting information to show a deposit payment of £1,000 was paid. If    
Mr C is able to provide supporting information to show he paid £1,000 as the deposit, I 
intend to ask BMWFS to pay this amount. However, currently without this supporting 
information, BMWFS should reimburse £500 to reflect the deposit paid. 
Mr C says he stopped using the car two weeks after acquiring it because it wasnt 
performing as he expected. At this point, Mr C had been able to drive the car for around 300 
miles. Further evidence has been supplied to confirm the mileage was 28,728 after this.     
Mr C says the car broke down in September 2020 and it hasnt been returned to him since. 
Public records show the mileage of the car until November 2019. They show the cars MOT 
expired in November 2020. This service has been unable to find out what the mileage of the 
car was when it was recovered from Mr C in September 2020. But given that Mr C had some 
use of the car, I think he should pay to reflect this use. Ive only been provided with 
information to suggest Mr C was able to drive around 400 miles in the car. So I think Mr C 
should pay one monthly rental to reflect this use. And any further payments Mr C has made 
under the finance agreement should be refunded to him with applicable interest. However, if 
the dealership or BMWFS can provide this service with evidence to show the mileage of the 
car when it was recovered from Mr C in September 2020, Ill reconsider this. 
Mr C has provided evidence to show he hired a car between 7 January 2020 and 16 March 
2020. However, he would have always likely had to pay for the use of a car to keep mobile. 
So because Ive recommended that BMWFS refund all but one monthly rental that Mr C has 
paid, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to also ask it to pay Mr Cs cost to hire 
another car in addition to this. 
When Mr C acquired the car, he had some outstanding finance to pay towards a previous 
agreement. This wasnt carried over as negative equity into this hire purchase agreement. 
Instead, Mr C entered into a separate finance agreement with BMWFS to repay the 
outstanding amount. Having thought about this, this amount was something that Mr C would 
always likely have been liable for one way or another, So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for BMWFS to pay the outstanding finance Mr C owed under his previous 
finance agreement, as this would put him in a significantly better position than if he hadnt 
entered into the contract.
Mr C has also provided documentation to show that he paid for a private number plate to be 
registered to this car on 15 November 2019. This was at a cost of £80. Hes provided further 
documentation to show this number plate was removed from the car by 7 January 2020. 
However Mr C hasnt provided evidence to show a cost was associated with the removal.  Mr C hasnt had benefit of the cost of transferring the number plate, so I think its fair 
BMWFS reimburse this. 
Before the car was supplied to Mr C, email correspondence shows it was agreed that a new 
tyre would be fitted to the car. Mr C has provided an invoice to confirm that the tyre was 
fitted to the car. But the invoice is unpaid and no further supporting evidence has been 
provided to confirm that Mr C paid the cost. So I dont think BMWFS should pay for the cost 
of the tyre as it appears the supplying dealership paid this cost rather than Mr C.
Mr C has asked for some legal costs to be reimbursed to him. Our service is a free 
alternative to the courts. Any expense Mr C has had will have been his choice, so I dont 
think its reasonable to hold BMWFS responsible for this. 
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr C said about the three-pin plug. There is limited 
information here. Mr C said he was told the car could be charged using a three-pin charger. 
But he believes this can cause damage. I dont think Mr C has demonstrated the three-pin 
charger would damage the hybrid battery of the car. But, either way, Im already 
recommending that he is allowed to reject it, so I dont think I need to comment further on 
this as it wouldnt affect what I think is fair to put things right. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Im minded to instruct 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to put things right by doing the following:
End the hire purchase agreement with no further payments due from Mr C; 
Arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr C; 
Refund Mr Cs deposit payment of £500; 
Retain one monthly rental payment of £448.12 and refund Mr C any payments hes 
made in excess of this; 
Pay Mr C £80 for the transfer of the private number plate that Mr C paid for on 15 
November 2019; 
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement*; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this hire 
purchase agreement.
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and said he accepted it. But he also provided 
further evidence to show he had made two payments to the supplying dealership around the 
time he acquired the car. The first payment was for £500 and the second payment was for 
£600. Mr C also said that he had minimal use of the car and so he requested I consider 
whether BMWFS should be entitled to keep one monthly payment.  
BMWFS said it didnt agree with my provisional decision. And it said I should obtain an up to 
date mileage reading for the car, as although Mr C was unable to use the hybrid battery due to the range, the combustion side didnt register any problems. It also asked Mr C to provide 
it with details of the current location of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I responded to both BMWFS and Mr C about the issues they raised after I issued my 
provisional decision. Having reviewed all the information provided to me, no further 
information has been provided to suggest the car was of satisfactory quality at the time it 
was supplied to Mr C. So my findings from my provisional decision remain unchanged and I 
think the car supplied to Mr C wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Since issuing my provisional decision, our service has obtained information to confirm the 
location of the car and has provided this to BMWFS.
Ive gone on to consider the further evidence both Mr C and BMWFS have provided 
concerning what BMWFS should do to put things right.
Mr C provided to show the amounts he paid to the supplying dealership. I sent this 
information to BMWFS. It explained the initial £500 payment was paid to towards the 
separate agreement Mr C has to clear outstanding finance carried over from his previous 
agreement. I explained this to Mr C and he didnt dispute this. So I dont think BMWFS need 
to pay this amount to Mr C.
BMWFS explained the second payment of £600 was made up of £500 as a deposit under 
this agreement and £100 for the cost of a replacement tyre. I explained this to Mr C and he 
didnt dispute this. So I think BMWFS should refund Mr C £500 to reflect the deposit he paid. 
When I issued my provisional decision, I didnt have supporting evidence to show that Mr C 
paid for the cost of the tyre. However, as BMWFS has now confirmed Mr C paid £100 for the 
tyre, I think BMWFS should pay this amount to Mr C. 
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Cs comments concerning whether BMWFS should be 
entitled to keep one monthly deposit. And having done so, I think it should. I say this 
because since issuing my provisional decision, the dealership that collected the car from    
Mr C have confirmed the current mileage of the car. This is the same as what it was in 
September 2020, when the car was collected from Mr C. And it confirms that Mr C was able 
to travel around 400 miles in the car. So I think Mr C should pay one monthly rental to reflect 
this use. And any further payments Mr C has made under the finance agreement should be 
refunded to him.
No further comments were received from Mr C or BMWFS in relation to ending of the hire 
purchase agreement, collection of the car, the cost of transferring the private number plate, 
the amount of interest payable or the amendment of the credit file. So it follows that I see no 
reason to reach any different conclusions that I made in my provisional decision concerning 
these points. 
Putting things right
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. To put things right, BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited should:
End the hire purchase agreement with no further payments due from Mr C; 
Arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr C; 
Refund Mr Cs deposit payment of £500; Retain one monthly rental payment of £448.12 and refund Mr C any payments hes 
made in excess of this; 
Pay Mr C £80 for the transfer of the private number plate that Mr C paid for on        
15 November 2019; 
Pay Mr C £100 for the cost of the tyre;
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement*; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this hire 
purchase agreement.
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited should follow my directions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman