DRN-2537264
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mr C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr C took out a store card with PPI in September 2003 when he was out shopping. 
The policy covered Mr C if he was too ill to work or had an accident or if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint because I dont think he wouldve bought the policy 
if he had been given clearer information about its cost and benefits.
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mr C clear enough information about the policy so he 
could decide for himself if he should take it out. 
The store card application he filled in shows that the PPI cost £1.50 per £100 of the 
outstanding balance  and Mr C may have been told this. But I dont think its very likely that 
the policys true cost and benefits were explained clearly enough to allow Mr C to work out 
whether PPI offered him any useful benefit it was worthwhile for him to buy. For example, 
I dont know if AXA explained to Mr C how interest might be added on or if hed have to 
continue to pay the premiums during a claim.
Mr C told us he had other means he couldve relied on if he wasnt able to work. In particular, 
Mr C told us that his employer wouldve paid his full sick pay for 6 months. He also 
mentioned having some savings put aside.
AXA said that as Mr C had only been in his job for eight months it wasnt plausible that he 
wouldve had 6 months sick pay.
But I think it is entirely plausible that his employer wouldve paid Mr C, and for as long as 
Mr C told us, if he was off work sick. I dont think its reasonable for me to say that his length 
of service means he wouldnt have been likely to qualify for this amount of sick pay. 
As well as this, the amount of savings hes told us about doesnt seem unreasonable to me 
given his situation.
This means that the policy offered Mr C only limited value given the other means he couldve 
relied on. 
On balance, based on all the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr C wouldve bought the 
policy if AXA had given him clear enough information about the cost and benefits to be able 
to decide if it was good value for him. 
So, I think Mr C has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. How 
it does this will depend on whether Mr Cs store card account is still active or has been 
closed. 
Ive noted that the PPI policy is already cancelled and that it looks like the account is closed. 
But in case Im mistaken about this Ive also set out what AXA should do if Mr Cs account is 
still active 
If Mr Cs account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Mr C would owe on his store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr C owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes his.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
C paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. AXA should tell Mr C what its done to work out A and B.
If Mr Cs account has been closed: A. AXA should find out how much Mr C would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes his.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI  Mr C 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr C 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr C that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman