DRN-3668177
The complaint
Ms J complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund her for
withdrawals she didnt carry out.
What happened
Ms J lives abroad, but visited the UK and left her card with her father. Ms J says she left the
card with her father as he needed the account details for her to receive a payment.
Ms Js father lost his wallet, containing Ms Js card. Ms Js father didnt cancel any cards as
he thought the wallet was somewhere in the house. Ms Js father noticed transactions on his
own account he hadnt made and realised his wallet had been picked up by someone else.
Ms J spoke to her father and cancelled her card, but over £3,000 had been withdrawn using
cash machines. Ms J complained to Halifax and asked it to refund her the money as she
hadnt carried out the transactions.
Halifax replied to say it couldnt see how someone else had been able to get Ms Js personal
identification number (PIN). Because there was no point of compromise, Halifax thought it
was more likely the PIN had been kept with the card. Halifax didnt agree to refund Ms J.
Ms J brought her complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. Ms J said
shed never shared her PIN with anyone and hadnt given it to her father.
The investigator didnt think Ms Js complaint should be upheld and said it was likely Ms J
had authorised the transactions. The investigator couldnt see how someone else had
obtained the card and PIN.
Ms J didnt agree with this outcome, and said she hadnt authorised the transactions. Ms J
said Halifax should have picked up the payments as being out of character with her account
and Halifax should be protecting her money.
Ms J again said she hadnt shared her PIN with anyone else, including her father. Ms J
asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
My provisional decision
Although I agreed with the investigators outcome, it was for different reasons, so I issued a 
provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
Im satisfied Ms Js genuine card and PIN were used to make the cash machine withdrawals.
I also think its unlikely Ms J or her father carried these transactions out.
But its not enough to say Ms J didnt carry out the transactions, I need to be satisfied Halifax
can be held liable for the payments made on Ms Js card.
As a general rule Ms J cant be held liable for transactions she didnt authorise. But Ms J can
be held liable for transactions someone else made if the evidence suggests shes been
grossly negligent with her card and PIN or any other security details.
Ms J says she left her card with her father, so he had the account details to allow him to
make a payment to her account. It seems this was a one-off payment, and the payment had
been made some time before Ms Js father lost his wallet.
Ms J says she didnt tell her father her PIN and has never shared it with anyone else.
Ms Js father lost his wallet and his card was used fraudulently. Ms J has said its possible
someone overlooked him whilst he used a cash machine with his card and stole the wallet.
But this doesnt explain how someone knew the PIN for Ms Js card.
I dont believe theres any other explanation for someone else knowing the PIN other than it
was recorded somewhere in Ms Js fathers wallet. I understand Ms J has said, several
times, shes never shared her PIN with anyone else, but I cant explain how else the
transactions could have been made.
Where evidence is contradictory or incomplete I can decide things on the balance of
probabilities, whats more likely than not to have happened.
And I think, on balance, Ms J did share her PIN with her father. And I think, on balance,
Ms Js father would have needed to have kept a record of it  it wasnt his PIN so it wasnt
one hed remember.
Because I think Ms J shared her PIN, and this was recorded and kept with the card, I think
Ms J has been grossly negligent with her card and PIN. It follows I think Halifax can fairly
hold Ms J liable for the transactions on her account, even though Im satisfied neither her nor
her father carried them out.
Ms J has said Halifax should be protecting her money, and I agree. But I think Ms J also has
to takes steps to protect her card and PIN. I dont believe she did.
Ms J also says Halifax should have realised the spending was fraudulent as there were
numerous cash machine withdrawals and this was out of keeping with the account.
Each cash machine withdrawal was made using Ms Js genuine card and PIN, so to Halifax
it would have appeared as if Ms J was consenting to these withdrawals. There werent any
attempts to access cash in branches, or any spending in shops.
Overall, Im not persuaded these transactions looked out of place. In hindsight, perhaps they
do, but each transaction was authorised using Ms Js card and PIN, which only she should
know. In these specific circumstances I dont believe Halifax should have noticed anything
was wrong simply because of the cash machine withdrawals.
Ms J also says her father tried to cancel the card in a Halifax branch but couldnt as he
wasnt the account holder. Ms J had to call in to cancel the card.
The transactions took place over 13 days, and Ms J has said her father didnt realise his
wallet had been stolen for ten days. And Ms J says her father delayed telling her hed lost
her card after hed realised the wallet, and card, was missing.I think its likely Ms Js father attempted to cancel the card after the last transaction had
taken place. So even if I was to find Halifax should have cancelled Ms Js card on her
fathers say so, I think it would have been too late to stop any of the transactions anyway.
The responses to my provisional decision
Neither Ms J nor Halifax had anything to add following my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party had anything to add, Ive not changed my mind about this complaint. My 
final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
I think, on balance, Ms J has been grossly negligent with her card and PIN and its fair for 
Halifax to hold her liable for the disputed transactions made on her account.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman