DRN-2858657
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) reduced the interest rate 
on her savings account without notifying her. 
What happened
In August 2020, Miss C opened a direct saver account with NS&I. The interest rate at that 
time was 1%. But in early 2021, she found that this had reduced to 0.15% from November 
2020 and she hadnt been notified of this.
 
Miss C complained as she said the terms and conditions of the account said that she should 
have been notified 60 days before the change, and she hadnt received this notice. She said 
she then wouldve had 60 days to move her money elsewhere and this had caused her a 
financial loss. 
NS&I said that the changes in interest rates ensure they are set at an appropriate position 
against those of its competitors. It said that it had sent either a letter or email to all affected 
customers; and there was a press release, a public notice advert and the details were on its 
website.
 
NS&I told us that Miss Cs correspondence details were set up to be paperless so she 
wouldnt have been sent a letter, but it said an email had been sent to her on 12 September 
2020 and the rate then reduced from 24 November 2020. NS&I said that the email had been 
sent directly to Miss Cs email address and not to her online account as a secure message. 
It was sent as part of a batch to customers. 
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said NS&I had provided a copy of the email that was sent to Miss C to notify her of the 
changes as well as its contact log which showed the email was sent to her on 12 September 
2020, which was two months before the changes came into effect. She said that this 
message had given a clear summary of the interest rates and didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Miss C said that she had no record of receiving the email and it wasnt on her online 
account. She questioned why NS&I hadnt provided this to her when she complained. She 
didnt accept that the email had been sent to her and asked for proof of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Miss Cs strength of feeling about this, particularly as she can find no record 
of receiving the email about the reduction in interest rates.
 
NS&I has provided a copy of the message that its records show was sent to Miss Cs email 
address directly on 12 September 2020. This set out the changes in the interest rates on the 
range of affected accounts including the direct saver Miss C has.
 
From what NS&I has said, I understand that Miss Cs correspondence details were set up for 
her not to receive letters, and so it looked to update her by email. And, although I appreciate 
she didnt receive this email; I think NS&Is records show when it was sent to her and what 
email address was used. I am also mindful that the information about the interest rate 
changes was advertised publicly, and was available on NS&Is website, so there were other 
opportunities for Miss C to learn of the changes to her interest rate.
 
I can understand why Miss C has questioned why the date and time wasnt included on the 
copy of the email NS&I provided. Its not clear why this is. Its possible that it related to it 
being automatically generated in a batch. I know that Miss C would like more proof of it 
being sent to her, and Im sorry that shes felt unsatisfied by the records provided. 
However, on balance I think it is more likely than not that NS&I did include Miss Cs account 
in the messages it sent out to its customers about the interest rate changes, as the 
information about this is included in the records of her account activity.
 
So while I can understand that Miss C may have taken action with her savings earlier if she 
had she been aware that the interest rate on her account was reducing, I think that NS&I has 
acted in accordance with the account terms and conditions in notifying affected customers 
about the changes it was making. Its because of this that I dont think NS&I has acted 
unfairly or inappropriately with Miss Cs account. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman