DRN-2060419
The complaint
Miss T complained about the amount Standard Life Assurance Limited paid her when it 
reviewed the sale of her pension annuity.
What happened
Miss T bought an annuity from Standard Life in 2010. That provided an annual income of 
£2,266.44. Following an industry wide review by the regulator, in 2019 Standard Life 
reviewed the sale of Miss T's annuity. It found that it didn't provide her with enough 
information about her possibly being eligible for an enhanced annuity, or about her being 
able to shop around. As a result, Standard Life:
increased the annual income provided by the annuity going forward to £3,308.64
paid Miss T £9,118.69 (being the amount shed been underpaid since 2010), and
paid Miss T £1,830.29 (being interest on the underpaid amount after tax had been 
deducted).
Miss T complained to Standard Life about the amount she received. She felt the annuity
should have increased further and that tax shouldn't have been deducted from the interest
payment. Standard Life told Miss T the amount it paid was based on the pension income she
could have bought in 2010 if her health and lifestyle had been taken into account at that
time; and the calculations used to work this out were agreed with the regulator.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld 
in part. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below.
The review of the annuity sale
I didnt dwell on the sale because it wasnt in dispute that in 2010 Standard Life didnt 
provide Miss T with enough clear information to enable her to make an informed choice 
about which annuity to buy. The issue in dispute was the compensation Standard Life 
paid Miss T in order to rectify the problem.
Compensation in complaints like this is designed to, as far as is reasonably possible, put 
customers in the position they would have been in had the problem not existed in the first 
place. That meant making up for the financial losses Miss T suffered (and would suffer 
going forward) because she bought the annuity she did rather than buying an alternative 
annuity that would have provided a higher annual income.
As part of the review Standard Life asked Miss T to complete a Health and Lifestyle 
form. This was to establish, as at 2010 when Miss T bought the annuity, things like her 
height and weight, whether she was a smoker and whether she suffered from various 
medical conditions. Miss T mentioned various medical conditions on the form and 
Standard Life later discussed them with her. Standard Life then used all the information 
in the form together with the redress calculator to establish what annual income Miss T 
might have been able to get from an annuity in 2010.
Miss T mentioned her age and health, which Standard Life took account of, but she 
hadnt provided anything else to suggest the increased annuity was incorrect. I hadnt 
seen anything which suggested that Standard Life used incorrect information when using 
the redress calculator. It was also the case that Miss T's original annuity had a 
guaranteed annuity rate attached to it, which meant that her original annuity was higher 
than standard annuity rates on the market at the time. So the difference between the 
guaranteed annuity rate and the new enhanced rate was lower than if she'd had the 
lower rate in the first place. Despite this, Miss T's annuity still increased by 46%, which 
was fairly substantial, and would have been due to her health conditions.
So I was satisfied that Standard Life treated Miss T fairly in calculating the difference 
between the annuity she bought and the annuity she could have bought.
However, I thought Standard Life had treated Miss T unfairly in respect of the interest 
paid. Usually when a financial business compensates a consumer for losses they've 
suffered I think its fair for them to add 8% simple interest to the settlement to make up 
for the fact the consumer had been without the money. I didn't think there were grounds 
to depart from that stance in this case.
I thought it was more likely than not that Miss T would have spent the extra money had 
she had it  rather than it earning low interest in a bank account for example. So, I felt 
fair compensation in this case was for interest at a rate of 8% to be added to the 
£9,118.69 back payment Standard Life paid to Miss T. By my calculations, that totalled 
£3,227.70. I calculated that as:
othe difference between Miss T's new monthly income and her previous monthly 
income was £86.85 (ie £3,308.64 less £2.266.44, divided by 12)
ointerest on £86.85 at a rate of 8% simple per annum is £0.58 per month
othe backdated amount paid to Miss T was £9,118.69, which meant the annuity 
had been going for 105 months before it was increased (ie £9,118.69 divided by 
£86.85 = 105)
oso the interest payable on the first annuity payment would be £60.90 (ie £0.58 x 
105 months)
othe interest payable on the second annuity payment would be £60.32 (ie £0.58 x 
104 months)
othe same calculations would apply all the way down to the interest payable on 
the105th payment, which would be £0.58 (ie £0.58 x one month).
The difference between the £3,227.70 I calculated and the £2,287.86 gross interest the 
redress calculator calculated was £939.84.
I was aware the interest calculated by the redress calculator (and paid to Miss T) was 
derived from an approach agreed with the regulator as generally acceptable. However, 
Im separate to the regulator and I am required to decide what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a particular case. And I considered interest of 8% 
simple to be fair in this case.
Tax on the interest
As interest is classed as income, tax is payable on it. The amount of tax payable is 
dependent on the individual consumer as there are tax thresholds and various rates of tax depending on the consumer's earnings. Businesses like Standard Life are entitled to 
deduct tax from any payments they make to consumers in respect of lost interest. It's 
then up to the individual to contact HMRC to either reclaim the tax if they're entitled to, or 
to pay additional tax if it's owed. I thought that was reasonable as Standard Life wont 
have an intrinsic knowledge of every consumer's tax status.
Standard Life told us the total amount of tax deducted from all interest payments for all 
consumers was reported and paid to HMRC quarterly. It further said it normally issued 
customers with a Tax Deduction Certificate which showed the interest paid and the tax 
deducted, which could be used by the customer to reclaim any tax. But HMRC had 
agreed that the redress letter would be sufficient proof in annuity cases such as this.
So I concluded that Standard Life treated Miss T fairly by deducting income tax from the 
interest payment it made. There were no grounds in my opinion to make Standard Life 
increase the amount paid to Miss T in this respect.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T said she was disappointed with my decision as she has had numerous health issues 
which is why her annuity should have been enhanced in the first place. She wants as much 
as she is entitled to, but she would accept the decision as she wouldn't want to take it 
further.
Standard Life was also disappointed with my decision. It said the calculator had three 
aspects to it  the additional payment going forward, the lump sum compensation and the 
interest. It felt it difficult to understand and accept how using the calculator correctly could 
lead to Miss T being treated unfairly. It felt that as Id concluded the calculator had been 
used correctly the conclusion should be that all three aspects of the redress were fair. 
Ultimately, Standard Life didnt think the issues in this complaint make departing from the 
redress calculator fair1.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of Miss Ts health issues and that the annuity should have been enhanced from 
the outset. Thats why the regulator told Standard Life to review the sale of the annuity, and 
why Standard Life later amended the annuity and paid compensation. It remains the case 
that Miss T hasnt provided anything else to suggest that the increased annuity was 
incorrect. So I dont have anything further to add to what Ive said above.
Before addressing the points Standard Life has made, I think it might be helpful if I clarify 
that I said in my provisional decision there was nothing Id seen which suggested that 
Standard Life used incorrect information or incorrectly used the redress calculator. But that 
was in respect to it inputting the correct information (age, sex, weight etc) into the redress 
calculator, and in respect of it correctly calculating the difference between the two annuities. 
I think that was made clear by my specific conclusion, before moving onto the interest 
element, that I was satisfied Standard Life had treated Miss T fairly in calculating the 
difference between the annuity she bought and the annuity she could have bought. I didnt 
conclude that Standard Life treated Miss T fairly by using the redress calculator in respect of 
the interest payable.
1 Standard Life also discussed whether my decision should be published on our website. Ive noted 
the points made but I wont address them here as they make no difference outcome of the complaint.In respect of the calculator, Im aware there are three aspects to it. However, I dont believe 
that constricts me when deciding a complaint to considering the calculator as a whole  
rather than dissecting it into the three elements
It remains that when deciding this type of complaint Im not looking to tinker with the 
calculator in respect of the main compensation  Ill simply check, as Ive done here, to make 
sure the correct data was entered. Thats because I think the calculator is a fair way to 
calculate the difference between two possible annuities. But in this case I remain of the view 
that Miss T was deprived of money that she otherwise would have had the use of, and would 
have used. So it remains my view that fair interest on the back payment should be in line 
with the usual 8% rate I award.
I acknowledge Standard Lifes point about the issues in this case not being sufficient to 
depart from the redress calculator. As mentioned above, the overall compensation is 
designed to put Miss T as far as is reasonably possible in the position she would have been 
in had she bought an alternative annuity in 2010. That includes compensation, in the form of 
interest, for her being deprived of money ie her not having it available to use.
I can rarely say for sure what the cost is to someone of being deprived of money. For many 
people, it might have influenced a range of decisions about spending and borrowing over a 
period of time. In this instance, I think a rate of 8% simple interest per year is fair to reflect 
the cost to Miss T of being deprived of her money. Thats because:
if shed had to borrow money (eg use credit cards) because she was deprived of the 
money its possible shell have been charged more than 8%
it doesnt just reflect the lost opportunities to save or invest  she might also have gone 
without other things she needed or might have benefited from
it reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts.
Standard Lifes argument for the lower interest rate is based on the fact the regulator agreed 
to the redress calculator. Ive already explained in my provisional decision that Im not bound 
by that. And Im not persuaded that Standard Life was bound by it either. I accept it would 
have been unfair to pay Miss T less compensation than the calculator said she was due. But 
I dont think there was anything that prevented Standard Life from paying her more 
compensation than what had been calculated if Standard Life concluded, as I have, that 
what had been calculated was unfair for her particular circumstances. There was nothing 
that prevented Standard Life from making the same calculations that I have done.
Summary
For all the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Standard Life treated Miss T unfairly in 
respect of the compensation it paid her following the review of the annuity sale. But I 
conclude that Standard Life treated Miss T fairly in respect of the tax deduction.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Standard Life Assurance Limited pay Miss T a 
further £939.84 (less tax if properly deductible) in respect of additional interest owed on the 
back payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Paul DanielOmbudsman