DRN-3110112
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) dealt 
with them during a time of financial difficulty. In particular, they say they were pressured into 
voluntarily surrendering their property, which they say was then sold by the bank for less 
than it was worth. Mr and Mrs H also say that attempts to get the property back before it was 
sold were ignored by the bank.
To settle the complaint they want BOS to compensate them for their financial losses.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr H on behalf of himself and Mrs H.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with BOS on 23 March 2008. Unfortunately, within a year 
the mortgage had fallen into arrears and, although some payments were made in 2010, the 
arrears increased. I am sorry to note that Mr H was declared bankrupt, the bankruptcy being 
discharged in November 2011. Mr and Mrs H surrendered the keys to BOS in March 2012, 
when the account balance was just over £475,000, and the property was put on the market 
for sale the following month.
In April 2012 Mr H wrote to the bank complaining that the property was being marketed for 
considerably less than it was worth. Mr H also said I would also enquire to ask how it would 
be possible for me to take possession of the property again with immediate effect..
The banks notes recall that there were discussions with Mr H about information recorded on 
his credit file (which was later amended by the bank, due to Mr Hs bankruptcy). I also note 
that on 3 July 2012, the bank confirmed that it would not be possible to return the property 
unless the mortgage was repaid in full. 
BOS also clarified that the property had been valued by two surveyors, and had been 
marketed at the highest valuation of £375,000. Due to a lack of interest, the price was 
reduced and as at 3 July 2012 when Mr H spoke to the bank it was £345,000. 
I dont have any details of the price the property was sold for in October 2012, but I 
understand there was a shortfall of about £150,000, after taking into account all the costs of 
sale.
In 2020 Mr H contacted BOS again about the mortgage and the sale of the property, 
prompted by a refund of fees hed received following a remediation exercise carried out by 
the bank o historic accounts. In its final response letter, BOS said that it thought Mr H had 
left it too late to complain, because the property had been sold in October 2012, and more 
than six years had passed since then.
Mr H (with Mrs Hs consent) brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
They were unhappy about surrendering the property, which Mr H said was done under 
pressure from the banks agent. They were also unhappy at the price at which the property 
was marketed, and that the bank ignored his query on how he could regain possession of 
the property. 
The investigator noted that BOS didnt consent to us looking at the complaint due to the time 
that had elapsed. However, the investigator thought that the complaint was one that we 
could consider. 
It was explained to the bank that if there was a record of a complaint having been made 
within the time limits set out in our rules, then we could consider it. The banks notes had 
recorded Mr Hs complaints on 27 April 2012 and 9 July 2012 about the sale price of the 
property and about information on Mr Hs credit file. Although BOS said it had sent final 
response letters, it was no longer able to produce these. 
Consequently, the investigator was satisfied that there was a written record of the complaint 
made before the six-year time limit expired in October 2018, bringing the complaint within 
our jurisdiction.
Another investigator looked at the merits of the compliant. Although he was sympathetic to 
the difficulties Mr and Mrs H had experienced, he didnt think BOS had done anything wrong. 
He was satisfied that BOS had allowed several years forbearance where Mr and Mrs H had 
made only nominal payments, but they had never been in a position to clear the arrears. He 
looked at the steps BOS took to assist, but given that the mortgage was interest-only, the 
available options were very limited. 
The investigator didnt think capitalisation of the arrears would have assisted, because 
Mr and Mrs H werent able to maintain even the current instalments, and so wouldnt have 
been able to meet the interest repayments on an increased capital balance.
The investigator wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs H had been pressured into surrendering the 
property. He also didnt think the bank had sold the property at an undervalue. He noted that 
the price had been reduced incrementally over a six-month period, which he thought was 
reasonable.
Finally, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs H had any realistic prospect of 
paying off the arrears in full and all the banks costs. It was only on that basis that BOS 
would have allowed Mr and Mrs H to regain possession.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. Although he said he would be sending in 
further documentation, nothing further has been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing first with the jurisdiction issue, and for the sake of completeness, I agree with the 
investigators findings that we can consider this complaint. There is a written record of Mr Hs 
complaints made in 2012. As BOS hasnt been able to provide copies of its final response 
letters, I cant say for sure that Mr and Mrs H were given referral rights to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the complaint was made in time, before the six-year 
time limit from the sale of the property expired in October 2018.I will now consider the merits of the complaint. I will begin by saying that the financial 
difficulties experienced by Mr and Mrs H, culminating in the loss of their home, have 
undoubtedly been extremely distressing for them. Theyd bought the property in March 2008, 
when the property market was at its peak. Six months later, the financial crash happened, 
which had a massive global impact on the financial markets and which resulted in property 
prices falling over a period of several years. The crash also resulted in record numbers of 
bankruptcies and business failures. 
None of this could have been predicted when Mr and Mrs H bought their property, but the 
crash had an immense personal effect on Mr and Mrs Hs finances. They quickly fell into 
arrears on the mortgage and were never able to put it back on track.
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a lack of support from BOS in relation to their financial 
difficulties, so Ive looked at what the bank was required to do to help Mr and Mrs H.
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. At the 
time of this complaint, the Council of Mortgage Lenders (now known as UK Finance) also 
had its own guidelines about what it expected lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which 
mirrored closely the requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved  for example, short-term illness, a new job offer or maternity leave where the 
borrower will be returning to work within a given timeframe.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
There are limited notes available from the time of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. Theres nothing 
sinister about this  lenders dont usually keep records for more than six years, and this 
mortgage was redeemed more than nine years ago. But the payment history on this 
mortgage shows that Mr and Mrs H were unable to meet the interest-only repayments over a 
very long period of time. 
Unfortunately, however, Mr and Mrs Hs difficulties were not short-term or capable of being 
resolved within a few months. Because the mortgage was already interest-only, the 
payments couldnt be reduced by switching the mortgage to interest-only. Im also not 
persuaded that capitalisation of arrears would have been affordable, given that Mr and 
Mrs H were unable to meet the interest payments on their existing account balance. Overall, 
the options BOS had to help Mr and Mrs H were extremely limited. 
I think BOS acted fairly, in all the circumstances. Mr and Mrs H were given several years to 
try to turn the situation around, but ultimately they werent able to. Mr and Mrs H say they were told by the banks agent that they had to surrender the property. 
I think its more likely that the agent pointed out that the only options left were either for 
Mr and Mrs H to surrender the property or for BOS to go ahead with court action to take 
possession  which would have increased the costs added to the mortgage account. Im 
satisfied, from information the banks provided in confidence, that the surrender process will 
only begin once a borrower requests it. (I am entitled to accept evidence in confidence 
where it contains information about BOSs internal processes which are commercially-
sensitive.)
I fully appreciate and understand that Mr and Mrs H felt they had no choice  either 
surrender the property or have the bank repossess it through the courts. But Mr H hasnt 
been able to show that he was in a position to clear the arrears or maintain the monthly 
payments after that. BOS wasnt able to allow Mr and Mrs H to continue living in the property 
if they were unable to make the payments and had no reasonably prospect of being able to 
do so. I dont think this was an unreasonable position for the bank to take.
Mr and Mrs H wanted to get back into the property, and offered to pay off some of the 
arrears. BOSs policy was that it required all the arrears and costs to be paid before it would 
consider this. I cant tell BOS what policies it should have in place, but I dont think its 
unreasonable for the bank to require clearance of arrears and costs before it will return a 
property in possession to the borrowers. Mr and Mrs H werent able to meet the banks 
requirements, and so it was reasonable for the bank to reject their request.
By the time the property was surrendered in March 2012, the market had fallen considerably 
from its peak in the spring of 2008. This affected the sale price of the property. BOS cant, of 
course, sell the property for the lowest price it can get; it has to act responsibly, obtain at 
least two valuations and offer the property to the open market. BOS did all of that, and put 
the property on the market with the agents whod valued it at the highest price. BOS was 
entitled to rely on the expert opinions of the valuers.
I see the price was reduced incrementally over a period of six months. This is reasonable 
where a property taken into possession isnt generating any interest. Whilst BOS has to try 
to obtain the best possible price, this doesnt mean that the property should be left unsold for 
a long period of time, because interest will continue to accrue against the outstanding 
balance on the account until completion of the sale. 
I appreciate Mr H thinks the property was worth substantially more than even the highest 
valuation, but the fact the property didnt sell at the highest valuation is persuasive to me that 
the property was not marketed or sold for less than its actual value.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were hoping for. From what Mr H has told us, he 
and his family have had a very difficult time over the last few years. I am truly sorry if my 
decision adds to their distress. But, for the reasons given above, I dont think BOS has done 
anything wrong in its handling of this mortgage account, or the sale of the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman