DRN-3240414
The complaint
Miss S complains that a business Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
(Sun Life) is now responsible for, gave her unsuitable advice to take out a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan.
What happened
Miss S met with Sun Life in 1997 (a work colleague was also present who also received 
advice). She was advised to take out a FSAVC plan, the reasons why letter stated:
It is not your intention to stay with your employer, redacted, until retirement: you will 
therefore suffer a shortfall in your retirement planning. I therefore recommended effecting a 
FSAVC in the first place. You have investigated your employers in-house AVC and have 
had details on that scheme. We discussed and I have explained the generic difference 
between in-house AVC and FSAVCs You are also aware that the in-house AVC offers 
reduced charges
A further meeting occurred in 1998 where the premium was increased and the same text 
above was included in that recommendation also.
More recently Miss S complained to Sun Life, she said that at the time she had no intention 
of leaving her employer and she thinks she shouldve invested in her in-house scheme 
instead.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said 
Sun Life had met the requirements of the time.
Miss S disagreed she said she had no recollection of being told about the in-house option. 
And she is certain that if she was told about it having lower charges, she wouldve chosen 
that option. She said the evidence provided by Sun Life was photocopies of documents, 
some of which werent signed by her. And she had no intention of changing employment. 
She thinks the advice was a copy and paste job from her friend who also went for advice  
and did leave the employer shortly after.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint its important to consider the context in which the advice was being 
given. The Sun Life adviser was a tied-adviser, he could only recommend products sold by 
Sun Life. So he couldnt recommend for example that Miss S join her in-house AVC scheme. 
However, there were rules governing what a tied-adviser needed to do in this situation.
The rules applicable at the time
In May 1996 the regulator (Personal Investment Authority) released Regulatory Update 20 
(RU20).
The PIA said that before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among 
other things, of the features described in this article)
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-
house option
RU20 also referred to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It said:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
So I would expect a firm to have especially made clear that the charges would be lower as 
this was the most significant difference for most customers.
Did the adviser meet these requirements?
Ive looked at the evidence provided from the time and having done so, I think the adviser 
did meet the requirements from the time. As I set out above the adviser in the suitability 
letter made clear that the in-house AVC would have lower charges, said that the differences 
had been discussed and that Miss S had investigated the in-house scheme. Sun Life also 
produced a copy of its FSAVC literature from the time, and this set out the likely key 
differences of an FSAVC compared to an in-house AVC. I think its likely Miss S wouldve 
received this at the time.
Whilst I appreciate what Miss S has said about not recalling being told about the in-house 
options, thats not surprising given the advice took place 20+ years ago. And I have to take 
into account the most robust evidence we have, is the documentary evidence from the time. 
Whilst Miss S doubts this evidence as it is photocopies and she hasnt signed every page, 
the information recorded was specific to her, she doesnt dispute she met with the adviser, 
and she has for example signed the declaration that the information recorded was true and 
complete. So I think at the time, Miss S likely did see what the adviser had recorded, and if 
she had thought then that it was inaccurate, I think its likely she wouldve asked for it to be 
corrected then. 
I appreciate Miss S ended up staying with her employer for over 10 years after the advice in 
question until being made redundant, but I dont think that means at the time of advice she 
couldnt have been thinking of leaving in the near future. Plans change and I wouldve 
expected Miss S to have challenged this assertion at the time of advice if it was incorrect. 
Instead she signed the declaration. Obviously as I wasnt present, I cannot be sure what was 
said and what happened. I dont doubt Miss Ss recollections are honest but recollections 
fade and I have to consider all of the evidence provided and decide what is most persuasive. 
And documented evidence from the time is more reliable than recollections many years later.
Conclusions
The adviser could only recommend Sun Life products and couldnt recommend that Miss S 
take out an in-house option. But as I set out above they did need to inform Miss S of this 
option and its potential benefits. The evidence shows that the adviser did meet this requirement and so I think the advice met the requirements of the time. And I therefore have 
to conclude that Sun Life doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman