DRN-3326667
The complaint
Mr H complains that the loan he had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr H took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go on 27 July 2019. He borrowed £400 and 
was due to repay £91.42 monthly for 18 months, finishing on 27 January 2021. The loan was 
sold to a debt collection agency on 28 June 2021.
Mr H says that the repayments were extortionate for a £400 loan and that if Loans 2 Go had 
carried out thorough checks it would have seen he couldnt maintain the repayments 
alongside his other loans. He says his credit rating is ruined and he had to enter a debt 
management plan to repay the loan.
Loans 2 Go says it verified Mr Hs financial disclosures by using external data sources, 
including his credit file. It says that although it adjusted both his income and expenditure, it 
still found the loan repayments to be affordable. Loans 2 Go says Mr Hs credit file showed 
no missed payments and no other adverse information. It adds that the repayments were in 
line with the contractual terms and conditions, a copy of which was provided to Mr H.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that she was 
satisfied Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks, but that those checks indicated 
Mr H was already struggling to manage his money. She recommended that Loans 2 Go 
should deduct any payments Mr H made from the principal, with no interest added. It should 
then attempt to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the balance. Our adjudicator said it 
should also ensure that any negative information is removed from Mr Hs credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that it acknowledged Mr Hs credit report showed 
one historical default, but all payments were up to date and there was no evidence of current 
financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr H. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Hs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about Mr Hs financial circumstances, 
checked his credit file and verified his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Loans 2 Gos analysis showed significant discrepancies between its checks and 
Mr Hs declared income and credit expenditure;
It did not fully understand Mr Hs regular expenditure and had used a statistical 
average to estimate this;
The credit check showed:
oMr H had one defaulted short-term loan account, although this was from 2016;
oMr Hs credit commitments were far higher than the £10 hed declared;
oAll five of the active credit accounts had been taken out in 2019;
One of these was a loan with a balance of almost £3,500 which 
had been taken out less than three months earlier;
With the new loan, Mr H needed to commit around 30% of his income to credit 
repayments.
In particular, I find Loans 2 Go should have been concerned that, with the new loan, Mr H 
would be repaying at least £430 per month of credit. At around 30% of Mr Hs verified 
income, I think Loans 2 Go should have seen that this could be an indication of someone 
experiencing financial difficulty, especially given this loan would be the sixth new line of 
credit in as many months.
So I think Loans 2 Go should have seen from the available information that Mr H might 
already be struggling to manage his money and should have carried out further checks.
Loans 2 Go has provided a copy of the bank statements it requested during its investigation 
of this complaint and Ive had a look to see what they showed as a reasonable proxy for 
what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Mr Hs finances in more depth at 
the time of the lending:
Mr Hs income for the last three months was around £1,200, as compared with the 
figure of £1,453 used by Loans 2 Go in its affordability calculations;
Mr H had at least four short-term loans outstanding at the time of the application;
The statements show a payment to a debt management company in early July 2019;
In summary, Mr Hs bank statements showed he had insufficient disposable income to make 
the repayments, and his apparent reliance on short-term lending was a clear indication that 
he was already struggling to manage his money.
So Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it was irresponsible 
to lend to Mr H and Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision.I cant see Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way and I note that it 
accepted much reduced payments as a result of Mr Hs debt management plan until the loan 
was sold to a third party.
But I do find that Mr H was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan and that Loans 2 
Go was wrong to lend to him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt it 
should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to 
buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr H. 
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file up to this 
point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman