DRN-3720449
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr K transferred £3,940 to a company to purchase a cryptocurrency 
package. He explains he realised it was a scam when the website where he was tracking the 
performance of the investment disappeared. 
Mr K explains he contacted the bank to report that hed fallen victim to a scam about ten 
months after making the payment, but HSBC took no further action. He says that he 
contacted the bank in 2018 and again in 2021 to raise the matter, but HSBC was unwilling to 
help. Mr K says that funds should have been recovered if the bank had acted quickly when 
he first reported the situation. 
HSBC issued its final response to the complaint in October 2021. It said that it was unable to 
take any further action to recover the money or consider a reimbursement as there was no 
protection or insurance in place to reimburse the funds. It explained that Mr K made the 
payment before the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (The CRM) came into force.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. He explained that losing this money had affected 
his financial stability because hed taken out a loan to make this payment. He felt HSBC 
should at least make a partial refund. Our Investigator looked into the situation but did not 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the payment Mr K made 
was unusual or concerning enough to fairly expect the bank to have asked more questions 
about it at the time that it was made. She thought it was highly unlikely any funds would have 
remained to be recovered even if HSBC had contacted the beneficiary bank when Mr K says 
he first reported the scam. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh. He said the 
crux of his dispute was the way HSBC had handled the case after hed reported the scam. 
He didnt think the bank had made any effort to recover the money or to start an investigation 
once the loss was reported. He said that even if the money was transferred on to 
somewhere else from the fraudsters account, banks should still be able to recover funds 
going through international banking networks. He pointed out there are numerous instances 
where banks have been able to successfully recover lost funds. The complaint was then 
referred to me.
Whilst the complaint has been with me, I have been in contact with Mr K and the bank that 
received his funds. I explained that the landscape surrounding fraud and scams has evolved 
a lot since Mr K made this payment in 2016 and that some of the standards and protections 
that may help people that are scammed today dont apply retrospectively. 
I confirmed HSBC was required to make reasonable efforts with the receiving bank to try and 
recover the money Mr K had sent, but explained that HSBC is not obligated to try and trace it 
any further beyond there.
I contacted the receiving bank and established when the money Mr K sent had been moved 
on. I was satisfied from the information the receiving bank provided to me that even if HSBC 
had contacted it promptly when Mr K first reported the situation, no funds would have 
remained to be recovered. This meant that any delays on HSBCs part did not result in a lost 
opportunity for Mr K to recover funds. 
Mr K was disappointed and asked me to make my final decision. He pointed out that in the 
event of a scam like this, sometimes the Financial Ombudsman Service does say that the 
bank must reimburse funds and he didnt see any fair justification why we should not do the 
same this time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has highlighted that in other cases we have recommended that the complainant should 
receive a refund of some or all of the funds that were lost. We assess each case on its own 
merits and I am not able to compare the outcomes of complaints as the precise 
circumstances may be very different, even if on the face of it the complaints stem from 
comparable underlying events. 
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, which is whether HSBC should 
have done more to prevent Mr Ks loss. Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, 
Im not able to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the outcome Mr K was hoping for. Im 
mindful that he has lost a lot of money and that he has had to carry the burden of loan 
repayments for these funds. But in weighing everything up, I am unable to fairly say HSBC is 
responsible for refunding some or all of the loss. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
Theres no debate that Mr K authorised the payment in dispute. At the time he sent the 
money, Mr K agreed to the payment and wanted it to be made. Although he did not intend 
for the money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (which are 
the relevant regulations in place here), and the general terms and conditions of bank 
accounts, Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
HSBC did not identify the payment as being suspicious. Although Mr K does not consider 
this dispute to be about why the bank did not spot the scam at the time of the transaction, for 
completeness, I have considered whether HSBC ought to have done more. Ive looked at 
Mr Ks account statements in the lead up to the scam payment. Even though it was a one-off 
payment made for a specific purpose, I cant fairly conclude that it should have stood out to 
HSBC as being unusual or out of character. The payment was unremarkable, and it didnt 
leave Mr K with less money than he usually had available for his day to day expenses. 
I dont consider the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. In these 
circumstances I wouldnt have expected HSBC to intervene and question Mr K about the 
payment. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. For this reason, I dont consider its reasonable to expect 
HSBC to ask questions about payments that arent unusual or out of character.
As I dont think HSBC acted incorrectly by making the payment, I cant conclude that HSBC, 
at the time, should have done anything more to prevent the loss that Mr K has gone on to 
suffer. So Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC should have refunded Mr K for any other 
reason. 
There is a CRM Code which is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push payment 
scams. HSBC has signed up to the CRM Code, but the payment Mr K has complained about 
was made before it came into force. As the CRM Code is not retrospective, it cannot be 
applied in this case. This means HSBC is not obligated to refund Mr K because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code.  
Ive looked at the steps HSBC took when it found out about the scam. Mr K has highlighted 
that it is not his fault that HSBC did not keep records of the number of enquiries he made 
asking the bank if there was anything it could do to help him. He feels strongly that HSBCs 
efforts to try and recover his funds did not go far enough. But HSBCs handling did not 
impact on Mr Ks chances of trying to recover any funds from the receiving account. The 
money hed sent had already left the recipient account some months before his first contact 
with the bank.
I am sorry to hear about the losses Mr K has suffered because of this scam. It is not in 
question that he is an innocent victim of a sophisticated and cruel deception. But having 
considered everything, I dont think HSBC should have prevented the loss. Nor can I see 
there are any other grounds on which I could say that HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, 
bear responsibility for it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman