DRN-3219181
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax wont refund a payment made 
on her credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for tickets to a sports 
event.
What happened
In August 2017 tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a sporting event using 
Miss As Halifax credit card. The total cost charged to her card was £1244.35.
Miss As brother was the account holder with the Website through which the purchase was 
made. Miss A was the account holder for the credit card used in the transaction to buy the 
tickets. Miss A disputes that the transaction was authorised at the amount charged to her 
account. She says that it was only after entering her card details was the full price of the 
tickets shown and it was at that stage she stopped the process without authorising the 
transaction for the amount charged.
Miss A complained to the Website but was unsuccessful as it felt it hadnt done anything 
wrong. So she complained to Halifax.
Halifax looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. It didnt think it could pursue a 
chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in its view. It also 
thought a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful. It 
was satisfied that Miss A did authorise the transaction at the amount charged. So it didnt 
think it could do any more for Miss A.
Miss A didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly by declining Miss 
As request for a refund. Miss A didnt agree. 
So in November 2021 I issued a provisional decision on this case broadly agreeing with the 
Investigators position that Halifax should not have to refund the cost of the transaction. I 
also found that no claim could be successful in any event as the appropriate relationship 
required for Halifax to be liable wasnt in place in this case.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision saying it didnt have any more to add. Miss A 
has not responded to my decision within the timeframe set. Accordingly I now proceed to 
issue this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Miss As correspondence with us recently and I can see weve used that 
address for our provisional decision. Miss A hasnt contacted us to tell us her address has 
changed so Im satisfied weve sent the provisional decision to the correct address. So, 
bearing in mind the contents of my provisional decision and its reasons for not upholding the 
complaint I think it likely she has chosen not to respond. So in the interests of finality in this 
matter I think I am safe to issue this final decision now.
And considering that Halifax has nothing further to add and the nature of my findings in my 
provisional decision I see no persuasive reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
Accordingly this complaint is unsuccessful. I shall now proceed to provide the reasoning for 
my final decision.
I should make very clear at this early juncture that this decision is not about the secondary 
ticket selling Website. Nor is it about the original purchaser of the tickets who then decided 
to sell the tickets through the secondary ticket selling Website (which was then bought in this 
case). This decision is only about whether Halifax has treated Miss A fairly in not refunding 
the transaction. 
authorising the transaction
Miss A says her brother had the account with the Website (which is supported by the 
Website sending the booking confirmation to him) and they were present together during the 
process to purchase these tickets and used her credit card. She isnt saying the transaction 
was made by any other party and accepts that the tickets were available for collection, but 
they didnt collect them because they didnt want to be considered as accepting them at the 
price charged as they say they thought they were paying a lot less for them when they got 
them. 
Miss A points to the amount of the transaction being different from what she had envisaged 
paying or indeed the face value of the tickets. This service has, over the years, built up a 
very detailed knowledge of the Websites processes and what exactly those using it saw 
during the various iterations of the website over the years. And this service also has also an 
understanding of the automated transaction process used here. And as a consequence of 
this Im satisfied that Miss A and her brother would have been shown the total cost of the 
tickets that Miss A paid (including fees and charges) at the point the card details were 
entered. And for the transaction to have gone through these card details must have been 
confirmed. It is clear that the full cost wasnt shown at the beginning of the process and Miss 
A is correct to point to many people complaining about this issue and there being media 
comment about it. But I am satisfied that the total cost was shown when card details were 
entered, and that Halifax has done nothing wrong in applying this amount to Miss As 
account.
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss A 
does here, Halifax (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Halifax couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss A didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Halifax is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Halifax should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Halifax) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Halifax isnt 
solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the chargeback process. And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is 
a reasonable prospect of success.
Halifax didnt raise a chargeback here because it says it didnt think this would have had a 
reasonable prospect of success. Considering that the booking confirmation for the tickets 
was provided, and the tickets were available for collection by Miss A as arranged and the 
rules of the chargeback process all in all, I dont think Miss A has lost out due to Halifaxs 
approach to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Miss As Halifaxs credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, 
in certain quite limited circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Halifax as she 
does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. This shouldnt be seen as considering the Website and 
Halifax as one and the same. The legislation here limits Halifaxs potential liability in a 
number of ways and only if the requirements in the legislation are met does Halifax become 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation.
In summary section 56 has the effect of making Halifax responsible during the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Miss A entering into the agreement. In essence this means 
Halifax can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales 
process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim under this legislation there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement 
in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. But this isnt the case here. It was Miss As credit card account that was used to 
pay for the transaction, but it was Miss As brothers account on the Website purchasing the 
tickets.  So although Miss A financed the transaction she isnt the purchaser of the tickets-
her brother was. So in essence Miss A is a fourth party in this situation. 
Ive reviewed the Websites terms and conditions which explains that in order to be able to 
use its services account holders must agree to its terms. It also says they will not allow 
customers to buy tickets unless they have registered with their service. In this case it was 
Miss As brothers account that was used to complete the purchase, so it is Miss As brother 
who entered into the contract with the Website as he registered with them and also agreed 
to their terms when he completed the purchase. Miss A didnt contract with the Website or 
agree to its terms or indeed attend the sports event. So although she financed the 
transaction through her credit card she wasnt party to the contract re the purchase/supply of 
the tickets and thus this breaks the DCS chain in this case.
Accordingly Im satisfied that there isnt the necessary DCS relationship present to make 
Halifax responsible under this legislation irrespective of whether there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. And thus it is fair that Halifax isnt responsible for any failings 
by the Website. So Miss As complaint here fails.
All in all Ive considered Halifaxs approach throughout and dont think it has acted unfairly. I 
think that Miss A hasnt lost out as I think Halifax made a fair decision in not taking the chargeback issue further when she raised the matter. Im satisfied the necessary relationship 
(DCS) isnt in place here, so Halifax cannot be held liable for any breach or 
misrepresentation by the Website. And I think Halifax correctly applied the cost of the tickets 
to Miss As credit card account after the transaction was authorised by her. So I dont think I 
can fairly require Halifax to refund Miss A for the tickets. 
For the sake of completeness I should add the following comments. Even if the DCS 
relationship was in place here (which it isnt for the reasons given) I still wouldnt be 
upholding this complaint. This is because Im in broad agreement with the findings of the 
Investigator in this case with regard to not being persuaded that either breach of contract or 
misrepresentation has been made out here under either S75 or S56. This isnt to say that the 
Website couldnt improve its sales practices from the time of the sale here, but rather it 
hasnt been demonstrated that Halifax should be liable under the relevant considerations 
(breach of contract and misrepresentation). And accordingly it follows that by not refunding 
Miss A it has treated her fairly as no liability has been made out. 
I should add that I can well imagine Miss As disappointment at this final decision of mine. 
But it should be remembered that this decision is solely about Halifax and what it did or 
didnt do. I appreciate Miss As response to the Investigators assessment and noting her 
disquiet with the Websites processes and conduct during this transaction and subsequently. 
But she didnt make any comment in that response as to what she thought Halifax had done 
wrong. And here I can only decide on what Halifax did or didnt do in relation to what 
happened here and its obligations in such matters. All in all Im satisfied Halifax has acted 
fairly. So this complaint fails.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing further to do on this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman