The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim made on his platinum 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B was due to travel abroad from the UK. He says he arrived at the 
airport around three hours before his flight was due to depart and started to go through the 
airports security area around an hour before his flight was due to take off. 
Due to various reasons the security process took longer than anticipated and as result Mr B 
missed his flight. He was able to book onto a different flight which departed later that date. 
Mr B made a claim on his travel insurance policy to cover his out of pocket costs including 
the cost of the rebooked flight.
AXA declined the claim as it says the reason Mr B missed the original flight wasnt due to 
any of the reasons covered under the policy.   
Unhappy, he complained to our Service. Our investigator concluded that AXA hadnt done 
anything wrong so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B didnt agree. His complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
AXA has a duty to handle claims made on the policy promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy does cover missed departures in certain, prescribed circumstances. It says:
 We will pay You up to £1,000 for reasonable additional accommodation (room only) and 
travel expenses necessarily incurred in reaching Your overseas destination or returning to 
the United Kingdom or Your Home Area if You fail to arrive at the international departure 
point (including for residents of Northern Ireland any departure point in the Republic of 
Ireland) in time to board the Public Transport on which You are booked to travel on for the 
initial international journey of the Trip as a result of: 
1.the failure of other Public Transport or
2.an accident to or breakdown of the vehicle in which You are travelling or
3.strike, industrial action or adverse weather conditions
DRN-1052877Public transport is defined as: 
any publicly licensed aircraft, sea vessel, train or coach on which you were booked to travel
Im satisfied that AXA has fairly and reasonably concluded that the reason why Mr B failed to 
board his scheduled international flight wasnt due to one of the three stipulated reasons set 
out the policy, and listed above. It wasnt due to the failure of other public transport (i.e not 
the plane he was booked to travel on), an accident to - or breakdown of - the vehicle in 
which he was travelling or because of strike, industrial action or adverse weather conditions. 
It was due to delays caused by the airports security procedures, and thats not a reason 
thats covered under this section of the policy. 
Ive taken on board all of Mr Bs points including what he says about the airports security 
procedures being an inherent part of being able to board the plane, and being able to fly. But 
Im not persuaded that means AXA has unreasonably relied on its policy terms to decline his 
claim in the particular circumstances of this case. Ive also considered what Mr B says about 
delays caused by security measures becoming more frequent and so travel insurance 
policies should cover this situation if it results in someone missing their flight. However, our 
Services role is to consider each complaint, given its own circumstances which is what Ive 
done here. We dont have the power to ask an insurer to re-write its policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2020. 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman