DRN-1715618
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out the card and PPI in July 2002 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says he has always been very reticent about taking out insurance products and doesnt 
think he would have agreed to PPI. Weve seen copies of the web pages that Mr S would 
have seen during the application process. There was a page for PPI and Mr S would have 
needed to select either a yes or no option to request or decline the policy. These options 
have equal prominence and neither has been pre-selected. Therefore I consider that Mr S 
would have understood from the wording and layout of the page that the PPI was optional. 
There was also a link to the terms and conditions. The application process couldnt be 
progressed until an applicant had selected either yes or no. Canada Square has provided 
a copy of Mr Cs application report which recorded the answers that he gave  and this 
shows that he chose the yes option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection of the 
sale has faded. Indeed, Mr S has himself said that it was too long ago to recall. Looking at 
the available evidence, it seems to me that he decided to take out the policy, knowing that 
he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square didnt advise Mr S to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough information to make an informed decision 
about whether or not it was right for him.
The relevant web page did provide a brief description of the policy benefits. And I think that 
Mr S must have known something about the PPI  that it would cover his credit card 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have 
decided to buy the policy without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr Ss employer would have given him some sick pay. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr S would have received full pay for. 
And Mr S didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Mr S has said that his partner and family could have helped, but other people cant always be relied upon as 
their circumstances can change. Overall I think that Mr S had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Canada Square didnt provide as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any 
of those things. As I consider that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no 
worse off as a result of anything Canada Square did wrong, so theres nothing that Canada 
Square needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman