DRN-3763491
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited didnt accept payment of a cheque for  
$288 into his Halifax SIPP account. He feels he received incorrect and misleading 
information when trying to cash his cheque, and is unhappy that he has now lost out on 
$288.
What happened
In brief, Mr M had bought shares in an American financial services company through his 
SIPP. He signed up for a class action against that company, as there had been irregularities 
with regards to information published by it, and the shares had been overpriced. The cheque 
was effectively a refund of the overpayment. It was for $288, and made out to Halifax Share 
Dealing SIPP FBO.
Mr M went into a Halifax branch to pay in the cheque in November 2020, but was told that he 
needed to send it to Halifax's Head Office. He did so with an accompanying letter. He didn't 
hear anything, so he chased Halifax by e-mail on a number of occasions. As he still didn't 
hear anything he went into the branch again to chase the matter. He received a response 
from Halifax dated 8 April 2021, saying it hadn't received the cheque. It also said that without 
receiving the cheque it wouldn't be able to deposit it on Mr M's behalf into his Halifax SIPP 
account.
As the cheque had passed its expiry date Mr M had to obtain a replacement cheque. This 
was for a lesser sum of $256.47 due to administration costs. He went into his local branch 
again, but it was unable to help. Mr M complained, and Halifax responded on 21 May 2021. 
Halifax said the only way Mr M could pay in the cheque was by contacting the administrator 
of the SIPP and completing a contribution form. It said it could only accept cheques in 
pounds sterling not dollars. And that Mr M could arrange for the cheque to be converted into 
pounds sterling by contacting the American financial services firm that had issued it. It said it 
didn't think it had breached its customer agreement with Mr M.
Mr M said the cheque wasnt payable to the SIPP administrator. And was again out of date 
by the time he was told to go to it.
I sent the firm my initial thoughts on the complaint on 16 September 2022. A copy was sent 
to Mr M. I said the cheque effectively represented money that had been paid out of the SIPP 
- a refund on the price paid for the shares. In its response to Mr M, Halifax had said as the 
income (the cheque) wasn't generated within the SIPP, Halifax had no control over how it 
was managed. 
My view was that this wasn't income - it was money that was from within the SIPP, and 
technically wasn't a new contribution. Mr M was a customer of Halifax SDL. I said I accepted 
that the terms of the SIPP provided for a separation of duties between Halifax SDL providing 
the share dealing service, and the separate firm providing the administration services. But I 
said the SIPP was a joint venture between Halifax SDL and the administrating firm. I said 
this was quite an unusual situation. And that it wouldnt have been clear to Mr M who was 
responsible for what - in his mind he was a customer of Halifax SDL.
I said the SIPPs Terms provided, under Condition 2 "About Us" - "The service is provided by 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited."
I said "service" was in bold and defined as "the Halifax Share Dealing SIPP Service, 
including the provision and administration of the account for your SIPP..." My emphasis 
added. 
So I didnt think Mr M ought to have known that he needed to approach the administrating 
firm to pay in the cheque. I said I accepted that the terms may not exactly have covered the 
situation here. But I thought it would most closely fall into Corporate actions - Condition 12 of 
the terms. And 12.8 provided that where the client wished to participate in a corporate action 
and the nominee company received a distribution of entitlement to shares and any other 
benefits due to the SIPP arising from that corporate action, Halifax SDL would allocate the 
entitlement to the account for the SIPP.
Condition 12.13 effectively said that where a payment was received through a corporate 
action that wasnt in Pounds Sterling and it needed to be paid into the SIPP, Halifax SDL 
would make the appropriate currency conversion in accordance with Condition 9.2, and 
inform the client of the Pounds Sterling equivalent when it transferred that money to the 
SIPP. It said it might charge for that service.
I said I understood that Mr M had signed up for the corporate action himself, in the name of 
Halifax SDL, rather than through the Trustees. But I said there were a number of parties to 
the SIPP, and I didnt think Mr M acted unreasonably. I said irrespective of the terms, Mr M 
was clearly a customer of Halifax SDL. I thought it was reasonable for him to approach 
Halifax SDL to help with the cheque and, although he may initially have gone into a branch, 
he e-mailed the Halifax SIPP address on a number of occasions starting on 26 November 
2020, but didn't receive a response. I thought Halifax, when paying due regard to Mr M's 
best interests, should have done more to help with the matter - even if that meant liaising 
with the SIPP administrator and Trustees directly itself to arrange for the cheque to be paid 
into the SIPP.
I said in the particular circumstances, I thought Mr M's complaint should succeed. And I 
thought Halifax should offer to pay in such amount as necessary to increase the value of Mr 
Ms SIPP by whatever the appropriate currency conversion rate was in accordance with 
Condition 9.2, applied to the $288 as at 26 November 2020. And that interest should then be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 26 November 2020 until the settlement date.
I didnt think Halifax SDL should make a charge as per condition 12.13, given the 
inconvenience caused to Mr M by the matter.
Halifax didnt agree to make the offer Id suggested. It said, in summary, that an award which 
was received off the back of civil lawsuit in the USA for a UK taxpayer was considered 
taxable income. It said it didnt think that the class action was a corporate action as provided 
for in the SIPPs terms, and so they shouldnt be taken into consideration. 
Halifax said the damages awarded to Mr M would likely be considered as taxable income. 
But as part of the benefit of a SIPP was that income was free of income tax, there was a 
contradiction. So It didnt think it was fair and reasonable to expect Halifax to overlook that 
the income from the damages was considered taxable. And that to credit Mr Ms SIPP with 
the proceeds of the class action would put him into a false financial position.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my initial view that the complaint should 
succeed. 
As I said, I accept that the terms dont exactly cover the situation here. But I am bound to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. For the reasons I outlined above, I 
dont think Halifax acted in Mr Ms bests interests, and didnt provide a reasonable level of 
customer service. And I think its reasonable to use the terms covering Corporate actions to 
decide on fair compensation given its a fairly unique situation and I think they most closely 
resemble the circumstances.
The benefits when paid out of a SIPP are taxable as income (apart from that part of the 
pension payable as tax-free cash). The SIPP had originally bought the shares. And I think 
the money recovered was effectively money that should be returned to the SIPP. I said 
Halifax should pay in such an amount that it increased the SIPPs value by the amount 
calculated. This effectively takes into account the tax position, including that when the 
benefits are taken out of the SIPP they will be taxable as income (or 75% of it). 
Ive carefully considered what Halifax has said. But Im satisfied what Ive set out provides 
for fair compensation in the particular circumstances.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay such an amount as necessary into Mr Ms SIPP to 
increase its value by whatever the appropriate currency conversion rate was in accordance 
with Condition 9.2, applied to the $288, as at 26 November 2020. Interest should then be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 26 November 2020 until the settlement date.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited shouldnt make a charge as per condition 12.13, given the 
inconvenience caused to Mr M by the matter.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If Halifax Share Dealing Limited
is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan it should pay that amount direct 
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual marginal rate of tax. Mr M 
has said he is a higher rate taxpayer, so the reduction should equal the higher rate of tax. 
However, if Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
only be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I order Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay compensation as I have outlined above under 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman