DRN-2917547
The complaint
Mr W complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited (ACAL) misrepresented the terms of 
his hire purchase agreement for which it acted as credit broker. He also complains he was 
pressured into signing the agreement. He would like to end the agreement.  
  
What happened
Mr W entered into a Personal Contract purchase (PCP) hire purchase agreement with a 
finance provider in November 2018 to acquire a new car. ACAL acted as the credit broker.
In December 2020 Mr W complained to ACAL. Having revisited the documents he believed 
he had been mis-sold the agreement and that the price of the car had been altered to ensure 
the finance went through. He said this resulted in him paying larger monthly repayments. He 
said ACAL had:
Manipulated finance figures, including the base cash price of the new vehicle to 
obtain a sale
Lied about the true cost price of the new vehicle to the finance provider for it to 
secure finance
Mis-represented and mis-sold the product
Employed bully like tactics to get Mr W to sign the agreement under duress 
Were deliberately evasive about the finance agreement and failed to explain it to Mr 
W properly 
Put Mr W under unnecessary financial strain for up to 48 months
Mr Ws complaint about the finance calculations centre around two proposals he was 
presented with where the base price of the new car increased by nearly £3,000.
In its final response ACAL said it was satisfied with the manner in which the finance 
agreement was arranged and that the price of the vehicle was made clear to Mr W and was 
clearly shown on all the paperwork signed by him. It did not uphold his complaint. Mr W 
didnt agree with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Initially our investigator didnt have an explanation from ACAL as to how the price of the 
vehicle had increased between the two finance proposals presented to Mr W. So, he 
recommended upholding the complaint. ACAL then provided an explanation. It said Mr W 
had initially provided an incorrect settlement figure from his existing agreement.  On 
receiving the actual settlement figure the amount Mr W needed to borrow to purchase the 
car increased. Our investigator concluded that ACAL didnt need to do anything further. Mr 
W again did not agree. He said ACAL had lied to the finance provider about the base price of 
the vehicle. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but having done so I wont be asking 
ACAL to do anything further. 
Firstly Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive read all the information on the file, including Mr Ws 
detailed responses to our investigator. I know Ive summarised this complaint in far less 
detail and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by Mr W. 
No discourtesy is meant by this. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W has made broadly two complaints. Firstly that the finance agreement was 
misrepresented to him. And secondly that ACAL employed pressure selling tactics to get him 
to sign the agreement. 
Was the agreement misrepresented?
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a customer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Ive seen several documents relating to the agreement including two order forms which 
illustrate the finance agreement calculation. The key financial information on these forms is 
laid out below:
Order Forms No.1 - 25 November 2018 No.2 - 27 November 2018
Base Vehicle Price £16,998 £19,298
Total price £17,857 £19,869
Part exchange value £9,150 £11,176.96
Settlement £8,200 -£11,176.96
Balance due from finance 
company£16,907 £19,869
Proposal 47 payments of £294.32 then 
optional final payment of 
£7,306. APR 8.9%47 payments of £345.98 
then optional final payment 
of £7,306. APR 6.9%
On the face of it, it does appear that the base vehicle price increased. ACAL said the 
settlement figure of £8,200 as outlined in order 1 would have been the figure Mr W himself 
provided at the time the initial vehicle order was created. It said from looking at the final 
version of the vehicle order, number 2, it established through contact with Mr Ws existing 
finance provider that the actual settlement figure was £11,176.96; this figure being £2,976.96 
greater than the figure Mr W initially advised.
ACAL went on to say that this meant Mr W had an additional sum of almost £3,000 to cover 
should he wish to continue to purchase the vehicle. It said Mr W wished to do that and as 
such a new proposal for finance was created.
In response to this Mr W said that at no point throughout the process did he provide ACAL 
with a settlement figure. He said ACAL provided him with the initial quote and they worked 
out the settlement figure. Mr W said he wasnt accustomed to how finance figures were 
worked out and that to say he had provided them with inaccurate figures is a fabrication. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I must 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
For obvious reasons Im not able to say what was said during face to face discussions which 
took place at ACALs dealership. So, I must rely on what evidence is available and what I 
believe likely occurred. ACAL was acting as the credit broker. While Mr W said he has used 
ACAL to broker a previous agreement it seems unlikely it would have had to hand an 
accurate breakdown of Mr Ws existing finance agreement. And in order to make any kind of 
initial finance proposal Mr W would have had to have given ACAL some information about 
his existing financial agreement. £8,200 does appear to be a rounded up or down figure, 
though I cant say for certain.
Im not disputing Mr Ws version of events, nor do I doubt his strength of feeling in this matter 
as he is quite certain he didnt give ACAL a settlement figure. But I think it likely the first 
figure was an estimate based on information Mr W did provide, and the second was an 
accurate settlement figure. I say this because the original finance provider wasnt ACAL as it 
was the broker. Under this circumstance it seems likely Mr W gave ACAL at least some 
information on which to base the first finance proposal. 
Mr W told this service that even if he had provided a settlement figure for the first calculation, 
ACAL made the point that he was in too much negative equity with the original quote. He 
said ACAL refused to provide Mr W with credit for the new vehicle. He went on to say that 
less than 48 hours later ACAL contacted him. He said it took the actual settlement figure and 
hid it in the base price of the car.
Again, the testimonies conflict. I havent seen any evidence that Mr W was refused credit 
based on too much negative equity, beyond his own testimony. And Im not disputing this. 
Its not unusual to refinance negative equity into a new finance agreement subject to 
approval from the new finance company. And when doing so the customer will be borrowing 
more than the value of the new car. This gives the effect that the price of the new car 
increases. The difference between the settlement figure of £8,200.00 and the actual 
settlement figure of £11,176.96 which ACAL said Mr Ws finance provider confirmed to it is 
the difference in the stated base vehicle price. I accept the way this is presented on the 
order forms isnt helpful, but I dont think ACAL did anything wrong nor do I think ACAL 
manipulated the figures. 
Mr W said he spoke to the finance provider and was told the actual settlement figure was 
£10,880.63. I havent seen the evidence to support this and it is much closer to that quoted 
by ACAL than the £8,200. The difference is possibly one months payment. But I cant say 
for certain.
Mr W has said that the fact ACAL offered a lower APR in the second proposal is a red 
herring. He said ACAL appear to be intimating that it did him a favour by giving him a lower 
APR having lied to the finance company about the base price of the car. For the reasons 
stated above I dont agree ACAL lied to the new finance company about the base price of 
the car. Im persuaded that the reduction in interest rate was a commercial sales decision to 
make the payments more affordable.  
Im satisfied ACAL didnt misrepresent the figures to either Mr W or the finance company. It 
also seems Mr W was keen to purchase this particular car as he of course had the option to 
look for a cheaper car when the actual settlement figure became evident and the finance 
package increased. Did ACAL pressure Mr W into signing the agreement?
Mr W said bully like tactics were used to get him to sign the agreement under duress. He 
said the sales advisor hurried through the documents and was vague when answering 
questions. He said he felt extremely pressured into signing the document. He said the 
advisor was evasive, unwilling to explain the full document and because of the pressure 
tactics employed by him he unwillingly signed the agreement. Mr W said he wasnt in the 
best health at the time.
Im sorry to hear that Mr W wasnt well at the time. As I said above Im not able to say what 
was said during face to face discussions which took place at ACALs dealership as I wasnt 
there. So again I must rely on the evidence I have and what I believe likely to have occurred. 
I asked ACAL to respond to Mr Ws comments regarding pressured selling. It sent me a copy 
of a customer survey form Mr W had completed four weeks after the second vehicle order 
form was completed and the finance agreement was signed. In it Mr W is very positive about 
his experience at the dealership. Mr W gave a maximum score against all the questions, and 
specifically those relating to - advice of financing options, information and advice given and 
overall experience of ACAL. He said yes he would recommend ACAL to a friend and he 
would consider buying his next car from ACAL. Of the sales advisor Mr W said he found him 
to be very professional and knowledgeable and an asset to the company. Mr W said he 
always used ACAL as he is treated with respect and made to feel so comfortable, their 
knowledge is fantastic. 
In response to seeing this feedback form Mr W made no further comment.  
Mr W appears to have confirmed the information was correct by signing the relevant 
documents; not only the agreement but also the declaration. By signing the declaration Mr W 
agreed that the key features of the finance agreement had been explained to him and that 
Mr W was fully aware of the type of finance product he was taking, the term, payments, and 
allowances.
I can see why Mr W would be concerned and upset when, after reviewing the two different 
orders two years after the event he might need a fuller explanation. I havent seen any 
evidence Mr W was pressured into signing the agreement and four weeks after the event his 
recall of it was overwhelmingly positive. So, Im persuaded Mr W was aware of what had 
been agreed, and was not pressured into signing the agreement. And he made the agreed 
payments for more than two years before he complained to ACAL.
Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show ACAL has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances or that the finance agreement was mis-sold to Mr W. So I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require ACAL to take any action in response to Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Mr W has said that neither this service nor ACAL has addressed the fact that ACAL had a 
responsibility to lend appropriately. Mr W brought a complaint to ACAL based on 
reassessing his financial circumstances two years after he signed the agreement. The 
original complaint to ACAL didnt include the affordability of the finance product at the time 
he took it out and whether appropriate checks had been carried out. If Mr W remains 
concerned about this he can raise a new complaint with the finance provider so that it has 
the opportunity to respond first.  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman