The complaint
Mrs L says Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has unfairly refused her claim for 
critical illness benefit. Instead of paying her claim, it has voided her policy altogether for 
misrepresentation.
Mrs L is represented by a solicitor in pursuing her complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on 21 May 2020. A full copy of the findings set 
out in that decision is provided in italics below.
I have reached materially different findings from our investigator.
Unless I see any further evidence that changes my view, I currently intend to uphold the 
complaint but for different reasons. I do not believe this policy should have been voided 
altogether, but I also do not consider a claim should be paid to Mrs L for multiple sclerosis 
(MS). I realise that will be a significant disappointment for Mrs L, but I will set my reasons 
out in detail below.
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what L&G has done. When it received information from Mrs Ls consultant and 
GP following her 2018 claim, it was drawn to her medical history because there was 
reference in the evidence of Mrs L having a history of paraesthesia which dated back five or 
six years. This was before the policy application of 2016.
L&G says its underwriting rules/guidance meant it couldnt have insured her for MS or for 
any critical illness cover at all. Because of this, it cant pay a claim now. I agree with that 
logic for the reasons Ill set out below  though I await confirmed evidence of the 
underwriting, as I have not seen any relevant manual pages or underwriting guidance from 
2016 on the file to support the retrospective underwriting decision dated 11 February 2019. 
It falls to me to look at what Mrs L was asked, and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation, upon which L&G could amend or avoid the policy. Though L&G was 
prompted to consider the medical evidence from 2018 when reviewing the claim, the correct 
position to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application is to look at 
what Mrs L was asked in 2016 against the relevant medical records up to that time.
DRN-1887172Mrs L was asked:
 
When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a 
medical condition, please tell us anyway.
 
 Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
 chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat? 
paralysis, numbness, persistent tingling or pins and needles, tremor or facial pain 
other than dental pain?
memory loss, dizziness or balance problems?
 
Mrs L answered no to that question.
I note that Mrs L did disclose anaemia and cystitis on her application, as well as a family 
history of cancer. Similarly, those questions (for the first two conditions) asked:
 
When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a 
medical condition, please tell us anyway.
 
 Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
 raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein 
thrombosis?
 any conditions affecting your kidneys or bladder, for example blood or protein in the 
urine, kidney or bladder stones?
 
Mrs Ls solicitor makes two principal arguments, the latter of which is that Mrs L did not 
properly understand the question put to her because it asked about several types of 
condition and began with asking about chest pain. I dont accept that the question is 
confusing or unclear. The two questions above where Mrs L gave positive answers also ask 
about other types of conditions as well as the ones she disclosed. I dont expect that just 
because a question may ask about a series of illnesses that Mrs L should reasonably 
disregard what is being asked simply because like conditions arent grouped together. 
The policy application made clear that Mrs L needed to check the answers she gave 
carefully and give relevant information to the best of her knowledge. In doing so, L&G sent 
Mrs L a checking your details document on 18 June 2016, which she signed and returned 
several days later. This had a copy of all of the questions for Mrs L to consider. Mrs L 
returned it without any amendment.
Mrs L saw her GP on several occasions in 2013 and 2014 specifically because of pins and 
needles as she had suffered from these in her fingers and toes for six months. Her solicitor says that when Mrs L attended on 15 October 2013, her GP specifically attributed her pins 
and needles to low folate/vitamin B levels.
The GP recorded on 29 October 2013 that Mrs L had low folate levels and needed vitamin B 
supplements for three months. He also said, if symptoms persist despite adequate levels (or 
worsen in next 3m) consider alternative diagnosis, eg MS.
On 22 April 2014, Mrs L reported to the GP that it seemed her pins and needles improved 
with the folic acid/vitamin B supplements but she couldnt be sure. So, she was sent for 
further blood tests.
On 7 May 2014, another GP recorded normal folate and B12  no obvious pattern, nearly 
one year of paraesthesia hands/feet/increased need to urinate, worried about MS  works 
[hospital]. Some pain right eye. Examination: normal fundoscopy right eye  poor view left, 
no replication of symptoms with carpal tunnel pressure. Advised see optician, keep symptom 
diary.
And finally, on 11 September 2014, Mrs L reported that her pins and needles had resolved. It 
was noted that realised that was to do with working position, has changed seat and got wrist 
rest [now] symptoms have resolved. Is eating more greens now for folic acid. Had life 
insurance refused until resolved. Plan: good. If [necessary] we can report to life insurance.
The other argument supported by our investigator is that Mrs L did not make a material 
misrepresentation whatsoever (that she acted innocently). That is on the basis that she 
believed she had nothing to answer because she had disclosed anaemia (due to low folate 
and/or B12) elsewhere. The solicitor says Mrs L had reasonably deemed the matter 
concluded and therefore had no reason to disclose it. 
I disagree with that argument. I accept that Mrs L disclosed her vitamin deficiency by 
declaring she had suffered from anaemia. But this had resolved by the time of the second 
blood test in April 2014. However, her medical records do not attribute that resolution to her 
taking supplements. The symptoms persisted despite blood tests coming back normal. What 
Mrs L said (and her GP accepted) was that her working position at a desk caused some 18 
months of pins and needles in her hands and feet.
Mrs L did not tell L&G about that in disclosing anaemia. None of the follow up questions from 
her disclosure allowed for an explanation about the symptom of pins and needles.
I believe Mrs L should have told L&G about her episodes of pins and needles. The question 
is clear and unambiguous. It does not ask Mrs L why she had pins and needles, it asks her if 
she has seen a doctor or nurse in the last five years for persistent tingling or pins and 
needles. Put another way, it simply asks if she has had any of the complaints on the list for 
which she needed to seek medical attention since 2011.
L&G could not have known that a vitamin deficiency caused Mrs Ls paraesthesia without 
her telling it about the symptoms she had suffered. I do appreciate why Mrs L says she failed 
to disclose it, but that doesnt alter that she should have done so.  
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
either deliberate/reckless or careless.
I dont believe Mrs L intended to deceive L&G or acted without any care at all, given the 
other disclosures on her application and the explanation of the reasons she overlooked it, 
given she thought it was resolved.But she needed to show more care when answering and checking the question. That she 
decided that it wasnt relevant to disclose 18 months of symptoms is not the fault of L&G. It 
relied on Mrs L answering questions accurately. Though it was a serious oversight, I think 
Mrs Ls actions best fit the careless category. 
L&G says that the Association of British Insurers Code of Practice on Misrepresentation and 
Treating Customers Fairly (the ABI Code) makes clear Mrs Ls actions were reckless. It 
says that because the Code says deliberate or reckless categorisation is more likely to apply 
where the misrepresented information is medical investigations about matters that a 
reasonable consumer would have understood to be important to their health.
However, that argument also supports what Mrs L has said about considering the matter 
resolved. By September 2014 the pins and needles had stopped. Mrs Ls view is that this 
was as the result of medical investigations and/or a change to her working environment. 
Notwithstanding that I believe Mrs L ought to have answered the question positively, I 
disagree with L&Gs conclusion that Mrs L behaved in a deliberate or reckless manner. The 
Code also says that, under notes on misrepresentation that is deliberate or reckless that 
the overall principle is that the remedy of avoiding a policy from the outset should be 
confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.
It goes on to clarify how this category does not apply where  (7.3.1) Having investigated 
the matter, the customer has a credible explanation supported by the facts for the 
misrepresentation having occurred and/or there are other credible mitigating circumstances.
Mrs L has explained why she didnt answer the question positively, against a background 
where she disclosed the other relevant conditions where asked. I disagree that she was right 
to do this, but I am not convinced she behaved recklessly. Careless misrepresentation 
includes anything from an understandable oversight to serious negligence, and I think Mrs 
Ls actions sit in that range of responses. 
L&G has voided the policy, because in incidences of deliberate misrepresentation it can do 
so, as well as consider withholding the policy premiums (though I note it has returned these).
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this.
L&Gs retrospective underwriting statement of 11 February 2019 confirmed that it would 
have declined critical illness insurance altogether. That means I cannot ask L&G to pay a 
claim now as (it says) it never could have insured her for critical illness. 
However, L&G should not have cancelled Mrs Ls policy altogether. That underwriting 
statement of February 2019 shows that life assurance would have been offered to Mrs L, just 
with a rated premium. At the time, she could have potentially paid more to receive the same 
amount of cover. The position now (unless L&G is prepared to do otherwise) is that going 
forwards, the policys sum assured should be reduced proportionately to account for what 
the policy premium of £46.91 would have bought if a +100 rating was applied.  
I should note that in response to this provisional decision, I require L&G to supply the 
relevant underwriting guidance and/or manual pages that were available to it in 2016 
showing how it would refuse critical illness cover if there was a disclosure of pins and needles in the same circumstances as Mrs Ls.
L&G accepted the provisional findings. It also supplied the manual pages for neurological 
symptoms and potential multiple sclerosis for life and critical illness cover, as requested. 
Mrs Ls solicitor said Mrs L didnt accept the decision. A further, detailed submission was 
made by Mrs L. I have read that in full, but I wont be repeating the exact content here. In 
summary, she said:
 
she welcomes the finding that she did not behave in a deliberate or reckless way 
when completing her policy application in 2016;
but she does not accept that she misrepresented her position, and therefore she 
does not agree with a careless categorisation for that misrepresentation;
it was unfair for L&G to say she ought to have known about the importance of 
disclosures because of being refused insurance;
though the GP recorded life insurance was refused, that was her husbands 
insurance where they had been thinking of adding her as a joint applicant but they 
could not do so until any diagnosis was made relating to vitamin B and/or pins and 
needles;
so, she was actually showing due care by waiting to see what her GP said about her 
symptoms rather than not returning to the GP;
it was unfair to write that she had suffered from paraesthesia for years in the 
background of the provisional decision;
what actually happened was that when she was diagnosed with MS in 2018 and 
when reflecting on her medical history she recalled the side effects of her vitamin 
B12 deficiency  which caused the symptoms she suffered;
none of her treating specialists have ever said she had MS dating back to before her 
policy application;
to the best of her knowledge she never suffered from pins and needles again after 
seeing the GP until the onset of the symptoms leading to her diagnosis two years 
later;
she has not been paid the £500 that L&G offered;
she did disclose pins and needles  because she disclosed her vitamin B12 
deficiency;
she did not need to further reiterate in the application that she had suffered from pins 
and needles in the five years prior to the application being made, as the disclosure of 
vitamin B12 anaemia did that for her;
the pain behind her eye mentioned to the GP on 7 May 2014 was a minor issue, 
mentioned once in the course of several visits in relation to the overriding concern of 
the pins and needles  she does not remember making the comment;
the urinary issues she had were not in relation to her pins and needles  these were 
caused by cystitis, a condition she disclosed on her application;
it is true she was worried about MS as when conducting internet research for pins 
and needles, MS is always listed as a possible cause;
but her GP reassured her this was not the case and the pins and needles were 
attributable to the B12 deficiency;  
as far as she was concerned, MS was no longer a possibility because the GP was 
content that the pins and needles were due to a combination of vitamin B12 
deficiency and poor posture; 
she is not medically qualified and therefore L&G cannot presume that she is more 
knowledgeable than her GP;
on the NHS website, one of the symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency is recorded as 
pins and needles;she disclosed the deficiency and she is not responsible for the defects in L&Gs 
application process, nor should her claim be rejected because of it;
she was not careless to not to declare the symptoms of a problem which she had 
already declared under a separate question;
she therefore correctly answered no to the question that included pins and needles;
the question clearly contains the caveat apart from anything youve already told us 
about in the application  she had told L&G she had vitamin B12 anaemia and one 
of the symptoms of that condition is pins and needles;
she did not think she had MS at the time of her application and there is no proof of 
that;
her GP notes are being taken out of context and being unreasonably used to decline 
her claim;
she did not need to repeat conditions she had already disclosed  therefore there is 
no misrepresentation at all. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their prompt replies to my provisional findings. Though I am 
sorry to disappoint Mrs L, having considered carefully the further submissions she has made 
my view of the outcome remains the same.
I believe this complaint should be upheld in part, but I do not share her view that she didnt 
make a misrepresentation during her policy application. I believe she should have answered 
her policy application question differently and my provisional findings on that basis are 
unchanged.
To confirm for Mrs L, I didnt say in the background to my provisional decision that I believed 
she had suffered from paraesthesia for five to six years. What I said was that L&G took the 
view that Mrs L had suffered from intermittent paraesthesia for years because there is 
reference to this in her medical records after her diagnosis of 2018. L&G said this affected its 
view and if it had known about her medical history, it wouldnt have offered critical illness 
cover and would have charged more for life assurance.
My view on the matter was set out in the findings I have included in italics above. What I said 
was though L&G was prompted to consider the medical evidence from 2018 when 
reviewing the claim, the correct position to decide what ought to have happened at the time 
of the application is to look at what Mrs L was asked in 2016 against the relevant medical 
records up to that time.
I realise why Mrs L feels strongly that she made a concerted effort to tell L&G her correct 
health circumstances at the time by disclosing her suffering from vitamin B12 deficiency and 
cystitis. I acknowledge that, and it is part of my reasoning as to why I accept Mrs L did not 
behave deliberately or recklessly in regard to the questions put to her. 
But I dont accept the argument that because Mrs L disclosed the vitamin B deficiency, that 
she did not need to complete the other question positively as well. The question including 
anaemia (when a yes answer is given) provided further subset questions. In Mrs Ls case this was, the type of anaemia (vitamin B12), the relevant period of symptoms, the date of 
diagnosis, and whether she required supplements going forward. She was also asked have 
you had symptoms such as tiredness or lack of energy, or been unable to carry out your 
usual work or daily activities, during the last month?.
Through answering the vitamin B deficiency questions, L&G did not know from Mrs L that at 
the time of her application she had suffered from paraesthesia/pins and needles from 2013 
to 2014.
So, I dont agree with the submission from Mrs L that she had no reason to answer yes to 
the additional question. It is clear that she should tell L&G if she has seen a doctor for 
persistent tingling or pins and needles, unless she has already told it about it elsewhere, 
which she hadnt.
I accept that on the NHS and other websites, pins and needles is one of many (in the NHS 
case, ten) differing symptoms a person may experience as a result of vitamin B12 
deficiency. But L&G wouldnt know which, if any, of the symptoms Mrs L experienced unless 
she told it about each symptom  where a question asked about the relevant ones. In this 
instance, she was asked a clear question about pins and needles which had a direct bearing 
on the cover L&G could offer. 
As Ive said already in my provisional findings, I appreciate why Mrs L may feel the 
disclosure wasnt relevant but it wasnt for her to decide what information L&G needed for 
underwriting purposes. Her duty was to give accurate information about her medical history 
and answer questions put to her with that history in mind.
Mrs L doesnt dispute having been concerned about pins and needles or that she suffered it 
from 2013-14. She argues L&G didnt ask sufficiently clear questions because she disclosed 
it under her vitamin deficiency and therefore could reasonably ignore the other question. But 
as Ive explained, I disagree with that.
It remains that I believe she should have done something different, and that a 
misrepresentation took place. Once that is established the classification of a 
misrepresentation is, under law, either careless or deliberate/reckless. Mrs Ls actions best 
fit the careless category, as she needed to take more care to ensure L&G knew about her 
relevant medical history in response to a clear question.
L&G has now supplied the guidance that it used for applications from 2013 to 2017 where 
possible symptoms of MS are disclosed. That is not to say it is assuming an applicant has 
MS, rather that certain symptoms of a list of 23 neurological symptoms can have an impact 
on the underwriting, depending on the number of symptoms and circumstances. 
In Mrs Ls case, if it had obtained a report of the relevant medical records it could not have 
offered critical illness benefit at all. As Ive already confirmed in my provisional findings, it 
could have insured her for life cover, with a rating of +100 for neurological symptoms. 
I should also note that I appreciate Mrs L has not received her £500 compensation for the 
delay in the complaint outcome, and I recognise this in my award below.
Putting things right
L&G must reinstate Mrs Ls life assurance policy and apply the rating of +100 to her life 
cover for the remainder of the policy term.
I do not order it to reinstate the critical illness element of Mrs Ls protection policy, as L&Gs underwriting is clear that if it had known her specific medical history, it couldnt have offered 
her critical illness insurance due to neurological symptoms.
Mrs L will need to notify L&G as to whether she wishes to continue with the policy, if she 
accepts my decision. L&G should give her a notice period of one month following 
acceptance of the decision, if she wished for the policy to continue with a rated sum assured.
As it has not done so already, L&G must also pay £500 to Mrs L for delaying her complaint 
outcome.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I reject the complaint regarding the claim for critical illness 
benefit. I cannot order Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay a claim as it has 
shown it could not have offered Mrs L insurance in the first place for critical illness.
I do however, direct L&G to reinstate Mrs Ls policy to provide life cover on a rated basis as 
set out above, as it should not have cancelled the policy altogether on the grounds of 
misrepresentation. It must also pay Mrs L £500 for the upset she has been caused.
I make no other direction or award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman