DRN-3796398
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
Miss A says that she was contacted by someone on a social media platform who said she 
was trying to build a business and could help Miss A to invest in cryptocurrency. Miss A 
didnt know at the time, but she was communicating with a scammer. The scammer told her 
that if she invested £500, she could make around £1,500 to £2,500. Miss A was sent a link 
to verify an account with a cryptocurrency exchange and sent her first payment of £500 on 5 
May 2022. I have set out the payments Miss A made as part of this scam in the table below:
Payment no. Date Amount Recipient
1 05/05/22 £500 1
2 25/06/22 £1,500 1
3 25/06/22 £1,500 1
4 25/06/22 £1,300 1
5 25/06/22 £3,000 2
Total £7,800
Miss A had initially tried to make the first payment from her account with another bank, but 
the payment was blocked, and Miss As bank raised fraud concerns with her. The scammer 
coached Miss A to tell her bank that no one was helping her with the payment if any 
questions were asked. When the payment still didnt go through the scammer told Miss A to 
open an account with Monzo and send funds from her bank account to the newly opened 
Monzo account. She was then given the details of a trading account to send funds to and 
told that a trading bot would buy and sell cryptocurrency for her. After the first trade Miss A 
was told shed made a profit of over £2,000 but would need to invest more before she could 
make a withdrawal. Miss A didnt have further funds at the time. 
On 25 June 2022 Miss A started to communicate with the scammer again. She was asked to 
invest more and then to pay a release fee (payment five in the table above). The release fee 
was sent to a different cryptocurrency exchange. 
Miss A realised shed been the victim of a scam when she didnt receive any profit and the 
scammer stopped communicating with her. She contacted Monzo to report the scam on 1 
July 2022.
Monzo didnt agree to refund Miss A. It said that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) didnt apply and that Monzo wasnt liable because 
Miss A lost the funds from her accounts at the cryptocurrency exchanges rather than her 
Monzo account. Monzo also noted that it had tried to cover Miss As funds.
Miss A was unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this case didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said that 
the first three payments werent unusual and out of character, so Monzo acted reasonably in 
processing them. Whilst the investigator thought Monzo should have discussed the final 
payment with Miss A, she said it wouldnt have made a difference as the scammer told Miss 
A to lie. Finally, the investigator said Monzo couldnt have done anything more to recover 
Miss As funds. 
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators findings, so her complaint has been passed to me 
to consider. She said Monzo should have raised concerns about the transactions to 
cryptocurrency exchanges as her bank did.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Monzo is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Miss A made and authorised 
these payments, although I accept that when she did so she didnt think her funds were at 
risk.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss A when she authorised payments from her account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing them. 
Im mindful Miss A didnt have an existing relationship with Monzo and that the payments 
started on the day the account was opened. This means that Monzo didnt have an 
understanding of Miss As normal spending patterns to compare the transactions with. 
Its debateable whether Monzo ought reasonably to have intervened at any point when the 
scam transactions were made. The first transaction was low in value and then there was a 
gap of over seven weeks before the next transaction was made. This second transaction 
was also relatively low in value, as were payments three and four. The final payment was to 
a new payee and also wasnt high in value. I appreciate the overall loss is significant to Miss 
A, but a balance has to be struck between Monzo identifying potentially concerning 
payments, and responding appropriately to any concerns, and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. If all low value transactions were flagged by a bank for additional 
checks many legitimate payments would be affected.  Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.It could be argued that by the time the final payments were made a pattern of unusual 
payments had emerged that Monzo ought reasonably to have investigated. But I dont think I 
need to decide this because Im persuaded that even if Monzo had intervened it wouldnt 
have uncovered the scam and prevented the payment(s) from being made and will explain 
why. 
When Miss A made the first payment in May 2022 the scammer told her if her bank asked 
any questions she should lie and say that she was making a transaction for a long-term 
investment that nobody was helping her with. Miss A didnt raise any objections or question 
why she should lie to her bank. When Miss As bank stopped the payment because it might 
be fraud the scammer then asked her to open an account with Monzo. Miss A followed the 
fraudsters advice without asking any questions.
So, I think that even if Monzo had intervened and asked Miss A questions about the purpose 
of the last transactions and provided a tailored warning about cryptocurrency scams, Miss A 
would have followed the scammers instructions to ensure the payments were processed. If 
Monzo wasnt given an accurate account of the payment purpose, it likely would have 
reached the conclusion that Miss A wasnt at risk of financial harm and followed her 
instructions to process the payments.
Im not satisfied that because Miss As bank blocked the payments she later made from her 
Monzo account, Monzo is liable for them. Banks have different policies in respect of 
payments to cryptocurrency exchanges and many payments to such exchanges are 
legitimate. In any event, Miss A knew that by opening an account with Monzo and making 
transfers from this new account she was bypassing her own banks security measures.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because it only covers payments to another 
person and Miss A transferred funds to her own accounts at the cryptocurrency exchanges. 
This means that I cant consider whether Miss A was vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code 
at the time of the scam. 
Overall, whilst Im very sorry to hear about this cruel scam and the impact it has had on Miss 
A, I cant reasonably asked Monzo to refund her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman