DRN-3036192
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled her claim 
under her buildings and contents insurance for damage caused by a fire.
What happened
Briefly, Mrs A made a claim under her buildings and contents insurance policy with Fairmead 
after her home suffered significant damage caused by a fire in the integral garage. Fairmead 
accepted the claim and Mrs A confirmed that it is now settled. However, she is unhappy with 
the way Fairmead handled her claim overall and shed like compensation for the delays, lack 
of compassion, distress and anxiety she experienced.
Fairmead accepted that it hadnt handled her claim as well as it shouldve done and offered 
£500 compensation. Mrs A didnt think it was enough.
Our investigator proposed an increase to £850, which Fairmead agreed with. Mrs A agreed 
that all the points had been addressed, but she thought that the circumstances warranted a 
sum of £2000. The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint, but I wont be requiring Fairmead to pay more than 
that proposed by our investigator. 
As the facts of this complaint are not in dispute, I wont repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision.
The claim took around 18 months to settle and Mrs A kept a diary of events. Ive looked at 
the diary entries and, where available, the supporting photos and compared them with 
Fairmeads account of events. The following is a selection of incidents which give an overall 
view of Mrs As dissatisfaction with the way Fairmead handled her claim.
She had to take time off work for appointments with contractors, some of whom didnt 
turn up.
Mrs A had to arrange her own alternative accommodation for the second night 
onwards.
Some belongings which had been left on her driveway while cleaning took place 
were taken by a local collector of unwanted household items.
The standard of cleaning was poor and had to be repeated.
Mrs As handbag was emptied, and some items went missing, despite her specific 
request that Fairmeads contractors shouldnt touch it.
Her sons gaming equipment went missing from his room.
There was evidence that someone had gone through drawers and taken personal 
belongings, including mobile phones.
Delays ordering windows.
Delays refunding payments.
Ive looked at the way Fairmead responded to these incidents, and I think it tried to put 
matters right. It wasn't clear who had taken the personal belongings in all cases, but I can 
see Mrs A provided evidence of ownership in the form of receipts, boxes or photos. 
Fairmead paid Mrs A to cover the cost of replacements and having considered the payments 
Im satisfied it was a fair sum. Mrs A hasnt disputed this, but I accept her point that she 
shouldnt have experienced the loss of her belongings in the first place. I can understand 
that this wouldve added to what mustve been an already difficult time, so Ive taken this into 
consideration when deciding whether Fairmeads overall compensation offer was fair.
While I cant consider Mrs As daily rate for the days she took off work, I have thought about 
the impact it wouldve had on her. I think she wouldve had to take time off work to deal with 
this matter anyway, so I cant fairly say that Fairmead should compensate Mrs A for the 
inconvenience of every time she took a day off. However, I have taken into consideration the 
inconvenience she wouldve experienced for missed visits and, what shouldve been, 
avoidable repeat visits when deciding whether Fairmeads offer was fair. 
Looking at the standard of cleaning shown in the photos, I can see that it wasn't up to an 
acceptable standard. Fairmead agreed. I think its reasonable that Mrs A expected the 
cleaning to be done properly first time and she shouldnt have had to arrange further work. 
While Fairmead did cover the cost of further cleaning to an appropriate standard, Ive taken 
into consideration the inconvenience that this caused Mrs A when reaching my decision 
about the level of compensation.
Mrs A asked Fairmead to reimburse the payments shed made towards some of the work 
and for hotel meals, and I can see that Mrs A had to chase responses about work 
progression on occasions. I also see that Fairmead chased Mrs A for payment towards the 
windows, even though they hadnt been ordered. Fairmead accepted that it didnt settle 
payments promptly and it was responsible for some delays in the overall claim process, and 
the evidence supports this. As Fairmead has corrected the payment issues, Ill take into 
consideration the inconvenience and impact Mrs A says this matter had on her.
As a final point, Ive seen that Mrs A paid one of the contractors to complete some private 
works. However, the company collapsed before it completed the work so Mrs A lost her 
money. She felt Fairmead had some responsibility for her loss because it used the company 
to complete other work. As the work was arranged on a private basis, Fairmead wasn't party 
to the contract so I cant hold it responsible. I understand Mrs A is aware of that and has 
taken steps to seek resolution outside of this complaint. 
Overall, I can understand that this whole matter wouldve been distressing to Mrs A and her 
family. But its important for me to differentiate between those things which Fairmead is 
responsible for and those which are, unfortunately, part of the distressing experience of 
repairing damage caused by the fire. 
Its important to point out that when the fire damaged her home, it would always have 
caused some distress and inconvenience. I know Mrs A doesnt dispute this. My role is to 
look at the impact on Mrs A of the additional distress and inconvenience caused by 
Fairmead and decide whether it made a fair offer of compensation. The evidence doesnt 
show that Fairmead was wholly responsible for the overall distress but, as Ive explained, it 
does show that Fairmead couldve handled matters better. 
Fairmead isnt responsible for the fact that Mrs As home suffered significant damage in a 
fire, or for the distress that wouldve caused her; the need to live in alternative accommodation for a while, or that she lost money because the contractor didnt do the 
private work she paid for. But I think its reasonable to say that Fairmead did contribute to 
the distress and inconvenience because it didnt handle her claim as well as it shouldve 
done. Fairmead was responsible for the avoidable delays; failure to reimburse payments 
promptly; not arranging appropriate cleaning and alternative accommodation, and for the 
undoubted distress of the loss of personal items while its contractors were in Mrs As home. 
Fairmead doesnt dispute this. It offered £500 in recognition of the service shortfalls and 
delays, but Mrs A didnt think it was enough. Our investigator thought the compensation 
should be increased to £850. 
Ive considered what Mrs A said about the impact this matter had on her and the fact that 
she started to suffer from, and needed medication for, anxiety. While Mrs A says £2,000 is a 
more appropriate figure, having considered the evidence Im satisfied that the proposed sum 
of £850 is fair in the circumstances, in line with other awards weve made in similar 
circumstances, and takes into consideration the issues Fairmead couldve handled better.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
increase its compensation payment to Mrs A by £350, bringing the total to £850, by 
way of apology for the distress caused and the impact its avoidable delays and poor 
claim handling had on her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman