DRN-2668976
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Moorhouse Group Ltd (trading as Constructaquote.com) set up 
and validated his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants a refund of all the premium 
he paid.
What happened
Mr K applied for a policy through an online comparison site and took about a policy through 
Moorhouse. Moorhouse validated the information Mr K had provided and said hed applied 
for the wrong sort of cover. It said that as a courier, he should have applied for goods for 
hire and reward rather than haulage. This led to a premium increase which Mr K agreed to 
pay. 
Moorhouse chased Mr K for documents to validate the policy and found that Mr K hadnt 
disclosed a disqualification. This led to a further premium increase and Mr K eventually 
declined to pay this and cancelled the policy. Mr K was unhappy that Moorhouse then 
chased him for an outstanding amount. Moorhouse waived its broker fees and the 
outstanding premium.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought it 
was fair and reasonable for Moorhouse to validate the policy. He thought Mr K should have 
applied for goods for hire and reward rather than haulage. And he thought Mr K could 
then have cancelled his policy if he didnt want to pay the premium increase. He also thought 
Mr K should have disclosed the disqualification when asked when he applied for cover. 
The investigator explained that he couldnt consider the premium increase or refund as this 
was a complaint against the insurer, not Moorhouse. But he thought Moorhouse had made 
an error in calculating the insurers refund. He thought Moorhouse should reimburse Mr K 
£131.48, with interest.
Moorhouse agreed to do this. But Mr K wanted all his money back. He said Moorhouse was 
responsible for this. And he thought it had wrongly required him to pay increased premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, I can only consider here Mr Ks complaint against 
the broker, Moorhouse, as his other complaints are against separate businesses. Mr K was 
unhappy with how his direct debits were collected, but thats a separate complaint against 
the finance company. And Mr K was also unhappy with his premium increases and how his 
refund was calculated, but thats a separate complaint against the insurer. 
So what I have considered is whether the brokers acted in line with its terms of business 
and fairly and reasonably in administering Mr Ks policy.
After Mr K applied for cover through Moorhouse, it validated his details by asking him 
questions and requesting documents from him. I dont think this is unusual. And I think its 
fair and reasonable as it ensures that the policy details are correct and so seeks to avoid 
later problems. 
Mr K was unhappy that Moorhouse said that he should have applied for cover for goods for 
hire and reward rather than haulage and that this led to an increase in premium. I can see 
from Mr Ks policy documents that his business is courier. And on the online comparison 
site he used to apply for cover, its explained that the correct cover for couriers is goods for 
hire and reward. So I cant say that Moorhouse was wrong in changing the type of cover. 
And, as Ive explained above, I cant consider here the increase in premium this caused. 
In its Welcome Pack, Moorhouse requested documents from Mr K, including information 
about his driving history. Mr K provided this some time later and after the 14 day cooling off 
period. Mr K hadnt disclosed any previous convictions. But Moorhouse found that Mr K had 
a TT99 conviction leading to a disqualification less than five years earlier. I think Mr K was 
asked a clear question about previous disqualifications and I think he should have disclosed 
this at the time. 
This conviction led to a further, and significant, increase in premium. Again, I cant consider 
this here. But I think Moorhouse acted correctly in validating Mr Ks details and drawing the 
conviction to the insurers attention. And I can see that it explains in its Welcome Pack that 
Mr K has a duty to make a fair presentation of material facts that may affect the cover 
offered. So I cant say it acted unfairly or unreasonably in this.
Mr K then decided to cancel his policy. After his complaint came to us, Moorhouse identified 
that it had miscalculated the insurers refund. It had already agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, 
to waive all its fees and charges and an outstanding amount of premium owed, so I cant see 
anything sinister in this. Mistakes can and do happen by human error. 
Moorhouse has reimbursed Mr K with this amount and its agreed to add interest to this from 
the date of cancellation to the date of payment. So I think that restores Mr Ks position and I 
dont require it to do anything further. 
Putting things right
I require Moorhouse Group Ltd to reimburse Mr K £131.48, adding interest at 8% simple per 
annum from the date of cancellation to the date of payment, as its already done. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Moorhouse Group Ltd to carry out the redress set out above, as its already done.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman