DRN-3632870
The complaint
Mr W complains about the additional rental that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, under a hire agreement 
when there was a delay in the car being collected from him. His relative is also involved in 
his complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr W under a hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in September 2017. The agreement ended in September 
2020 but the car wasnt collected from his relative until October 2020. Mercedes 
Benz Finance charged Mr W for additional rental of £418.44 plus VAT, damage to the 
car of £884.22 and £1,733.82 plus VAT for excess mileage. Mr W accepted the 
damage and excess mileage charges but complained to Mercedes-Benz about the 
additional rental charge.
It credited £76.08 to Mr Ws account for the five days between the end of the 
agreement term and the date that the third party that it had instructed to collect the 
car first tried to make contact to arrange collection of the car. Mr W wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She felt that 
it was fair that the charges for additional usage stand, as the car was collected over a 
month after the agreement ended and the third party had attempted to make contact 
to arrange collection. She couldnt see anything that persuaded her that Mr W had 
been treated unfairly.
Mr Ws relative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says, in summary, that;
she asked Mercedes-Benz Finance how she should go about handing back 
the car but she wasnt told that she would need to remove the private 
registration plate;
there was only one call from the third party before the car was collected which 
was after the hire period had ended and she told it that the car was no longer 
taxed so the third party told her that it would need to be collected by a flatbed 
transporter; and
the third party also told her that she would need to remove the registration 
plate before the car was collected and she then had to call it to arrange 
collection.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
The hire agreement was due to end in September 2020. Mercedes-Benz Finance 
has provided evidence to show that the third party that it had instructed to collect the 
car first tried to make contact with Mr Ws relative five days after the end of the hire 
period. Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt provided any evidence to show that it 
contacted Mr W about the end of the hire agreement before then. The vehicle return 
standards were included in the hire agreement and said:
When it is time to return your vehicle whether that is at the end of the period 
of hire or earlier (when requested to do so), you must return the vehicle in line 
with the Vehicle Return Standards.
The hire agreement didnt set out the process that was required for the return of the 
car and I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Mercedes-Benz Finance to 
have contacted Mr W before the end of the hire period to explain that process to him. 
The vehicle return standards did refer to DVLA advice that cherished number plates 
should be placed on retention at least ten to twelve weeks before the end of the 
agreement. But, if Mercedes-Benz Finance had explained the return process to Mr 
W, he would have been reminded that he needed to remove the private registration 
plate before the car was collected from him.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has provided contact notes which show that Mr Ws relative 
was first contacted about the collection of the car five days after the end of the hire 
period. Mercedes-Benz Finance credited £76.08 to Mr Ws account for the additional 
rental for those five days. The notes show that Mr Ws relative told it that the car had 
a private registration plate. Mr Ws relative says that she arranged for the private 
registration plate to be removed and then tried to contact the third party several times 
to arrange the collection and that she also contacted Mercedes-Benz Finance. That 
will have delayed the collection of the car.
The contact notes show that the third party was aware that the private registration 
plate had been removed seventeen days after its first contact with Mr Ws relative. 
The notes show that the collection of the car was then scheduled for a further fifteen 
days later. It's clear that the private registration plate hadnt been removed from the 
car at the end of the hire period which contributed to the delay in the car being 
collected. But I consider that its also clear that Mercedes-Benz Finance and the third 
party have also contributed to the delay in the car being collected. I also consider it to 
be more likely than not that the delay would have been avoided if Mercedes-Benz 
had explained the collection process to Mr W before the end of the hire period.
The cars tax had expired and the contact notes show the car as a non-runner so I 
consider it to be unlikely that Mr W or his relative were using the car after the end of 
the hire period and Ive seen no evidence to show that they did use the car after the 
hire period ended. I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances 
for Mercedes-Benz to charge Mr W for any additional rental. I find that Mercedes-
Benz Finance should remove any additional rental charges from Mr Ws account.
Subject to any further representations by Mr W, his relative or Mercedes-Benz Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance 
has agreed with my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Mercedes-Benz Finance has agreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason for me 
to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to remove any additional rental charges from Mr Ws account.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to remove any additional rental charges 
from Mr Ws account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman