DRN-3163239
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the settlement offered by Admiral Insurance Company Limited
following a theft claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr G and Admiral. I wont repeat
what is already known to both parties.
In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Our investigator considered this complaint and he recommended that it be upheld. Admiral 
didnt accept the investigators recommendations, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
Both parties were sent a copy of my provisional decision on 22 October 2021 in which I 
explained my intended findings were to uphold the complaint. Further responses were 
invited and a two-week deadline was given. As neither party responded within those two 
weeks, a final deadline of 16 November 2021 was given.
Admiral didnt respond. Mr G has now responded saying that he accepted the decision and 
added at no point did Admiral offer me a factory order, or the next model up. Indeed, I 
was told specifically that these were not options available. 
Ive now reconsidered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral havent responded to my provisional decision  having been given an opportunity 
to do so, and Mr G hasnt provided any new evidence, I see no fair or reasonable reason to 
deviate from my intended findings as set out in my provisional decision. As the provisional 
findings form part of my final decision, Ive included a copy below.
Copy of provisional findings 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my provisional decision.
Although Ive noted Admiral refer to a specific decision by another ombudsman in their
response to our investigators assessment, it would be inappropriate for me to comment on
another ombudsmans decision not knowing the facts of that particular case. Similarly, I also
wont be commenting on what other named insurers wouldve done or what their policy terms
are. In every case, our service considers each complaint on its own merits.
How Admiral settled the claim
Admirals investigation shows that they accepted the circumstances of the loss. I can see
Admiral made contact with Mr G on 15 March 2021 to settle the claim and explained that he
qualified for a new car replacement scheme:
We can instruct our supplier, [redacted], who will look to source you a
brand-new vehicle of the same make, model and specification provided its in UK
stock. They can look at other options if there is no stock availability in the UK and
they will discuss this directly with you.
However, it seems Admirals agent told Mr G shortly after this that they were unable to locate
a replacement as the vehicle had been discontinued the previous August. But Ive also noted
that in their own investigation notes Admiral stated:
there are no stock vehicles and the policy holder does not want to wait for a
factory order.
This is contrary to what Admirals agent told Mr G about the vehicle being discontinued. No
supporting evidence has been provided by Admiral that a vehicle was available to order from
the factory and that Mr G refused this offer.
Ive also kept in mind that around the time this claim was ongoing there was extensive
disruption to the manufacturing of and transportation of many goods  including vehicles.
This was largely due to the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. So it seems likely
that Mr Gs wait time on a factory-built vehicle wouldve been extensive.
So, regardless of which scenario it was, Im satisfied that Admirals appointed agent was
unable to find a direct replacement model within their stock network.
Admiral decided to settle the claim by offer Mr G the market value of his vehicle based on
the relevant motor trade guides. Admiral relied on the following policy term:
If you do not wish for us to replace your car or a car of the same make, model and
specification is not available from stock held in the UK, the most we will pay is the
market value of your car at the time of loss (less any excess applicable).
Has Admiral treated Mr G fairly and reasonably when settling the claim?
Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair and reasonable of Admiral to rely on this term.
Ive concluded that it wasnt and Ill explain my rationale below.
Mr G choose Admiral to insure this new, relatively high value vehicle. Hell have wanted to
help protect his financial position in the unfortunate event (such as a loss through theft) later
occurring. Mr G entered into the insurance agreement with Admiral in good faith.
Admiral - as the experts in the relationship between themselves and Mr G, will know the
intention of this insurance policy is to place Mr G back in the position he wouldve been in
had the insured event (theft) not occurred. Im not persuaded that the settlement Admiral
decided on fulfils this.
Although unfortunate, it was through no fault on Mr Gs behalf that Admirals agent were
unable to source a replacement within their network of contacts. But by relying on marketvalue for the vehicle, I find that (in the specific circumstances of this claim) Admiral have
placed Mr G in a less favourable position.
I accept that theyve settled the finance agreement and paid Mr G directly just under £2000.
But, in the absence of being able to provide a new replacement vehicle, this settlement
doesnt place Mr G back in the position he was in prior to the loss.
I find that Admiral have unfairly relied on the policy term (listed above) to pay the market
value of the car rather than fully indemnify Mr G to enable him to be able to purchase an
equivalent replacement vehicle. Admiral have also told our service that they havent offered
Mr G other options such as an available next model up to the one claimed for.
I currently intend to direct Admiral to settle this claim differently and have explained more
below.
Further comments after the provisional decision  
Mr G commented after my provisional decision about Admiral not offering an alternative 
settlement - such as a different model. Id touched on this point in my provisional decision, 
but for completeness have expanded on it below. 
When our investigator previously asked Admiral about this, their response was:
As previous stated the terms and conditions highlighted in the policy are that we will 
Replace your car with one of the same make, model and specification.
This would be the reason we would not have offered the policyholder a model up in 
the range.
Our service has a long-standing, well established approach to these types of complaints 
which I have followed. That is, where a motor insurance policy offers a new car replacement 
if a car was under 12 months old when the insured event/loss took place, but one isnt 
available.
Im satisfied that Admiral have been given an opportunity to settle this claim fairly and 
reasonably but have failed to do so. 
Putting things right
I direct Admiral to:
Pay the difference between the market value theyve already paid and the original
purchase price that Mr G paid for the vehicle, less any applicable excess.
Add simple interest at 8% per year on the difference. This should be from the date of
the initial payment (market value) theyve already made to the date this further
settlement is made.
This additional settlement should be paid direct to Mr G as it seems (based on the
available evidence) that the finance agreement has already been settled.
My final decisionI uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to follow my 
direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman