DRN-3215879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the performance of a boiler that was supplied to them under 
a conditional sale agreement with A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG).
What happened
In 2013, Mr and Mrs C entered into a regulated conditional sale agreement with ASG for the 
supply, installation and maintenance of a domestic boiler. In early 2019 ASG replaced the 
boiler as thered been various problems with it.
Around 12 months later, in January 2020, Mrs C spoke to ASG as they were having 
problems with their hot water. ASG sent an engineer out. He said the boiler plate heat 
exchanger was blocked with system debris. ASG said the engineer removed the plate and 
removed as much debris as possible to give Mr and Mrs C hot water again. ASG told them 
they were responsible for their own heating system and needed to have a power flush 
completed by their own third-party engineer. ASG also charged Mr and Mrs C a £120 call out 
charge for its engineers visit. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this. They questioned why a power flush was needed as 
one should have been completed when the replacement boiler was installed in 2019. 
Mr and Mrs C were also unhappy about the call out charge. They told ASG that, when Mrs C 
reported the problem, she was told it sounded like the issue was to do with debris in the 
pipes and that ASG would do a flush as a gesture of goodwill for the £120 call out charge. 
They said this was the only reason she agreed to the charge, but the engineer didnt do this 
 instead he cleaned and replaced the plate heat exchanger.
 
ASG rejected Mr and Mrs Cs concerns. In brief, it said a flush was carried out when the 
replacement boiler was installed, Mrs C was made aware there would be a £120 call out 
charge if the problem was caused by debris and, the problems would continue until 
Mr and Mrs C arranged their own additional flush.
 
Mr and Mrs C then arranged for their heating system to be power flushed. This cost them 
£450. They said the plumber who did this told them that if a power flush had been carried out 
when the boiler was installed in 2019, the plate heat exchanger shouldnt have needed 
repairing just a year later. 
Mr and Mrs C raised this again with ASG. They said Mrs C had been told over the phone 
that the call out fee would be waived as a gesture of goodwill. They asked for a copy of the 
phone call and refused to pay the call out charge. In reply, ASG referred to its previous 
response and directed Mr and Mrs C to us. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He thought it was unlikely a power flush 
had been carried out by ASG when it should have been or, if it had, it hadnt been done 
correctly. He also thought there was no basis here for ASG to charge a call out fee. To put 
things right our investigator said ASG should: refund the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs power flush, 
together with 8% simple interest; and, waive the call out charge.
 
ASG didnt accept our investigators view. In short, it said: ASG has a signed flushing 
certificate from when the boiler was installed in 2019 showing Mr and Mrs C were happy with 
it; a flush is never 100% guaranteed to remove all debris; and, since Mr and Mrs Cs own 
flush was carried out, debris has once again been found in the plate heat exchanger.
 
As the matter remained unresolved, it was passed to me. To try and resolve things 
informally, our investigator passed on my initial thoughts to ASG. I explained I wasnt 
satisfied that a power flush was carried out, or if it was, it wasnt done with the requisite skill, 
care and diligence. I accepted there was a discrepancy with what Mr and Mrs C say was 
agreed on the phone call when the problem was reported, but I didnt think this affected the 
overall outcome of this complaint as I wasnt satisfied ASGs agreement allowed the call out 
charge. Taking all this into account I was minded to direct ASG to put things right in the 
same way as suggested by our investigator. I asked if ASG wished to now settle the 
complaint.
 
In reply, ASG repeated its point about problems still happening after Mr and Mrs C had their 
system flushed. It implied the problems were more likely to be down to Mr and Mrs C failing 
to maintain their central heating system.
 
As no agreement has been reached, Ive moved to issue a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and in my own 
words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the key 
issue here: given the issues Mr and Mrs C have had with their central heating, does ASG 
need to do anything to put things right?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual point or argument  only those that Im satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to this. This reflects the informal nature of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
Ive looked at the contract between Mr and Mrs C and ASG. This sets out that ASG would 
supply, install, maintain and service a central heating boiler. I can see in clause 2 a) of 
schedule 1 of the contract that ASG agreed to undertake a power flush of the central heating 
system before installation (my emphasis). Clause 1 of the same schedule sets out that the 
installation will be carried out in a very careful and considered method of working and best 
working practices will be followed.
 
The original boiler was fitted in February 2013. I can see a flush wasnt carried out till the 
following month. I would note the flushing certificate issued at the time is incomplete. It 
doesnt show whether it was a manual flush or power flush, and other sections of the 
certificate have been left blank. Whilst these issues dont directly impact what followed, it 
does show there were discrepancies with ASGs contractual obligations from the start. 
Ill now turn to the installation of the replacement boiler in 2019. ASG has supplied details of 
the flush that was carried out then. Again, this certificate hasnt been fully completed. It also 
doesnt confirm what type of flush has been carried out, nor has the question about the 
duration of the flush been answered. So, its not clear from this if a power flush was actually 
carried out before the new boiler was fitted.
 When responding to my initial thoughts, ASG said it had evidence of a flush taking place, so 
only the standard of it is in question. I dont agree. I accept a flush took place in 2019. What 
the evidence supplied to me doesnt show is what type of flush it was.
 
Mr and Mrs Cs testimony is that when the boiler was installed in 2019, the engineer was 
there rough roughly two hours. Ive no reason to doubt this. My understanding is a power 
flush typically lasts a minimum of four hours and very often, a whole day. It would seem from 
this that either a flush other than a power flush was done or, if it was a power flush, it wasnt 
carried out in a very careful and considered way with best working practices being followed. 
In either case, Im satisfied ASG has breached its contractual obligations to Mr and Mrs C. 
So, Ive gone on to think about how they were impacted by this. 
Mr and Mrs C told us that, when they had their own power flush carried out, the plumber told 
them if one had been carried out before the boiler was installed, it would be very unlikely for 
there to be an issue so soon after this. ASG has said the plumbers remarks are hearsay. I 
do understand this point. But these remarks are consistent with my own research which also 
indicates that if a power flush is carried out correctly, prior to the boiler installation, problems 
with debris in the heat exchanger are unlikely to occur within the timescales here.
 
ASG has commented on potential problems with the power flush carried out by 
Mr and Mrs Cs plumber, especially as there still seems to be an issue with debris. I would 
point out that Im only looking at the actions of ASG here, not Mr and Mrs Cs plumber. In 
any event, this power flush was carried out after the issues with the hot water presented 
themselves, so it couldnt have caused them. Also, debris still causing problems is again 
consistent with my research. That is, once debris gets into a plate heat exchanger, its very, 
very difficult to remove it, even with a subsequent power flush.
 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that, on balance, its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have needed to raise this issue with ASG in January 2020 but for 
it breaching its contractual obligations. If a power flush had been carried out correctly before 
the replacement boiler was installed  as set out in the contract  I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs C would have had the problems when they did. In turn, they wouldnt have 
needed the visit from ASG and wouldnt have needed to then pay for their own power flush.
 
Ill now turn to the matter of the call out fee. Notwithstanding that, as Ive just said, a call out 
wouldnt have been needed, Im not satisfied ASG has any contractual basis for charging 
such a fee.
 
Ive looked at the emails and texts ASG sent to Mrs C outlining its non-warranty call out 
charges. I can certainly understand why it may want to charge for such calls. But if thats the 
case, there was nothing preventing ASG from detailing this when it drew up the contract. But 
it didnt. Instead, Mr and Mrs C contracted with ASG on the terms that it set out in the 
contract. Whether or not it was ASGs intention to include in it a charge for non-warranty 
calls, it wasnt done. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to attempt to introduce a 
new clause into the contract to cover this.
 
Neither do I think the phone call Mrs C had with ASG, nor the subsequent emails and texts it 
sent, change this. The call didnt vary the contract and put such a term into it  and in any 
event, Mr and Mrs C dispute that Mrs C ever agreed to the call out fee. This is backed up by 
her refusal to sign ASGs remedial sheet/advisory notice at the end of the subsequent visit.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above, ASG should: refund the £450 Mr and Mrs C paid to have their own power flush done 
add 8% annual simple interest to this amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement 
waive the £120 call out charge from Mr and Mrs Cs account 
If ASG thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
simple interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must now 
compensate Mr and Mrs C as set out in my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman