DRN-3895469
The complaint
Miss J complains that the car she acquired through MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality and shes unhappy with the way in which MI has investigated her 
complaint.
What happened
Miss J acquired a used car in January 2022 with a hire purchase agreement. She paid a 
deposit of £300, and the balance of £9,590 was to be paid through the credit agreement 
which was set up over a 60-month term. At the time of acquisition, the car had already been 
driven more than 51,000 miles and was just over 6 years old.
Miss J says the car that she was supplied with wasnt of satisfactory quality  theres were 
two faults with it at the point of supply, and although one was repaired, the other fault 
remains, so she wants to reject it. Miss J told us:
when she acquired the car, it came with a broken rear windscreen wiper and a 
message on the dashboard to indicate there was a fault with the cruise control;
she took the car to her local garage where the motor on the rear wiper was replaced, 
but the issue with the cruise control was never remedied;
the garage said the cruise control wasnt faulting when she took the car in, and the 
computer showed no errors;
shes worried the car is going to break down and itll be really expensive to fix, and 
the situation is causing her a lot of stress;
she repaid the car finance two months after the hire purchase agreement started and 
she wants MI to take the car back and give her a full refund;
shes complained to MI, but its asked her to get an independent report before it will 
consider further her complaint about the cars quality;
her local garage checked the car on two occasions but was unable to find the fault. 
Miss J says shes willing to take it to another garage if MI makes the appointment, 
pays for the inspection and provides her with a courtesy car.
MI rejected this complaint. It said in November 2022 that Miss J hadnt previously made it 
aware of the dashboard message, even though it accepted she had communicated with the 
dealership several months earlier. MI says it needs an opportunity to investigate Miss Js 
concerns and it asked her to take the car for a diagnostic as a specialist garage. It confirmed 
it would pay for this diagnostic, but it requires a specialist to look at the car so that it can be 
ascertained what fault, if any, is present.
MI said that because Miss J was unwilling to complete a diagnostic and was unwilling to 
assist it in gaining further information about any faults that may be present, it had no option 
but to reject her complaint. But it did say its offer remained open in the event Miss J changed 
her mind and agreed to arrange a vehicle diagnostic.
MI told us it was unaware of Miss Js complaint when she first brought it to this Service, and 
it hadnt, and still hasnt, been given an opportunity to investigate her concerns. It said, 
based on how long Miss J has had the car, and the mileage shes driven, it was reasonable 
to require Miss J to provide diagnostic evidence of the fault so that it could assess things 
further. And it reiterated that its offer to pay for a diagnostic was still open available to Miss J 
 she just needed to book the car in at her convenience and send it the report.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that in this particular case, on the basis of Miss Js complaint, her role wasnt to 
determine whether there was or wasnt a fault with the car, but instead, whether or not MI 
had made a fair and reasonable decision on the basis of the evidence it had.
She said the dashboard message could indicate a number of things  not necessarily a fault 
 and MIs request for independent evidence was fair and reasonable, as was its offer to pay 
for this report. And she explained that if an inspection report demonstrated that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  there was a fault, and it was likely 
present or developing at the point Miss J acquired it  shed expect MI to review its position 
in respect of Miss Js claim. She told Miss J that in the event she was unhappy with that 
review, shed be entitled to bring a new complaint to MI, and ultimately to this Service.
Miss J disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says shes already 
established that theres a fault with the car, and the fact that a specialist couldnt establish 
the presence of the fault does not mean there isnt a fault. Miss J says the specialist hadnt 
done enough to establish the presence of the fault, and that she has done everything she 
needs to do to provide MI with an opportunity to fix the fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss J is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MI is also the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  MI in this case  had a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality. So, what I need to consider in this case is 
whether the car supplied to Miss J was of satisfactory quality or not
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
And, having considered things most carefully, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I 
say this because based on what Ive seen and read, there simply isnt enough evidence at 
the moment to say that the car supplied to Miss J was of unsatisfactory quality. Ill explain 
why.
Im satisfied that Miss J raised two issues with the supplying dealership very soon after she 
acquired the car. The first related to a faulty rear windscreen wiper with a sprayer that did 
not work. Miss J provided copies of text messages showing that this was successfully repaired with the installation of a new motor for the rear wiper. And shes satisfied that the 
garage repaired this when she asked it to do so.
Miss J says a warning message in respect of the cruise control function appeared on her 
dashboard. She says its appeared several times since she acquired the car and its making 
her anxious. Shes provided this Service with a photograph of the dashboard, and I can 
clearly see the message which says Cruise Control Failure  Have the problem checked 
by your Service Partner. So, I am satisfied that this needed investigating further. This is 
because a message or warning on the dashboard could arise for a number of very different 
reasons. For example, it could simply be alerting the driver to the need to service or carry 
out some maintenance on this part of the car; it could be triggered by road or weather 
conditions; or it could be an indication that the tyre tread is not what it should be. There 
could be an electrical issue, and there could, of course, be a fault with the cruise control 
system. But the cause of the dashboard warning and the existence of a fault can only be 
ascertained through an inspection and diagnostics.
Miss J says she took the car to a garage on two separate occasions, but was told that the 
issue couldnt be replicated, and the computer diagnostics didnt show any errors. She says 
cars are more complicated that just being plugged into a computer, and that she cant make 
the car demonstrate a fault at her request.
But the email from the garage goes further and is more persuasive. It says We also looked 
at the cruise control. The car was road tested on both occasions. We tested the cruise 
control both times and found it to be functioning correctly and without fault. No faults were 
found on the cruise control.
Taking the email from Miss Js own garage in conjunction with her own testimony, this 
suggests that not only did the computer-based diagnostics find no evidence of any faults or 
the existence of fault codes, but that in addition, the road testing was faultless; the cruise 
control functioned as expected on both occasions.
So, based on the evidence available at the moment, Im not able to conclude that theres a 
fault with the cruise control; that it was present or developing at the point of sale; and 
accordingly, Im unable to say that the car supplied was of unsatisfactory quality when Miss J 
acquired it.
I understand Miss Js frustration with the situation and the worry that the dashboard 
message must be causing her. Ive noted that MI hasnt discounted the possibility the car 
has a fault, and its suggested that Miss J books, at her convenience, a diagnostic with a 
specialist. Its also offered to reimburse Miss J with the costs of this diagnostic, and I 
understand that this offer is still available to Miss J.
I think this is a fair and reasonable offer from MI. I say this because, like our investigator, 
were an independent inspection to evidence a fault that likely was present or developing at 
the point of supply, this Service would expect MI to review its position in respect of Miss Js 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman