DRN-2544190
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy was added to 
Mr Bs Barclaycard account when he applied for the card over the internet.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with our adjudicator.
Mr Bs main complaint is that hed applied for a credit card and didnt ask for PPI and he was 
unaware he was taking out PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Based on what we know about the way Barclays sold PPI this way, I think Mr B wouldve 
seen that he had to say if he wanted to take out the PPI. It wouldnt have been put on his 
account if he hadnt selected the option to add it on. 
And it looks like he chose not to take out another optional feature that was available with this 
Barclaycard. So it looks like Mr B understood that it was up to him to choose the optional 
extras he wanted to have.  
On balance, although its completely understandable hes forgotten this after so long, I think 
that Barclays made Mr B aware that the PPI was available as an option with his card and it 
was added to his Barclaycard account when he chose to take it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave him enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself if he wanted to have PPI.
Mr B was eligible for the policy. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt look as if those applied in Mr 
Bs case when he took out his Barclaycard. So, I dont think having more information about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it out. 
Mr B told us his employer wouldve paid him full sick pay for between 3-6 months then half 
pay for the next 6 months if he was off work as a result of accident or sickness. Mr B is clear 
that he wouldnt have received 12 months full sick pay. 
The policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card repayments in full for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  and on top of any work benefits. 
Bearing in mind that Mr B mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go 
back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And as well as this, the policy wouldve also protected Mr Bs credit card repayments if he 
lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So, looked at overall, I think the policy offered him valuable cover. 
I dont know if Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mr B made a claim. But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would 
actually cost on a month to month basis, Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted it. 
The policy appears to have been affordable for him when he took it out  and he couldve 
cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed or he didnt want to keep paying for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr B told us, including what hes 
said in response to the adjudicators view and the comments hes made about the way some 
other PPI claims have been dealt with. 
But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case and the PPI sold with his Barclaycard. 
Theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. So in my 
decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the outcome of 
this complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman