DRN-3535374
The complaint
Mr R complains about TSB Bank plc closing his current account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
I know Mr R has raised issues about other organisations in his submissions to our service. 
But Im only able to consider the issues hes raised regarding TSB in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the issues Mr R has described in his submissions to our service. 
He has clearly experienced very challenging and difficult circumstances. 
Although I may not address every point Mr R has raised specifically, I want to assure him 
Ive considered everything hes provided very carefully.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappointing for Mr R, 
but Ill explain why.
Mr R told us he had to leave his address in August 2017 and at the time he was unable to 
update TSB of a new address.
TSB closed the account in December 2017. TSB are unable to provide letters showing it 
notified Mr R of the closure at the time, but I can see statements were still being sent 
including one with a closing balance.  However, Mr R was not living at the address at the 
time, and had not provided a new address, so I dont think this would have made a 
difference.
The terms and conditions of the account say Mr R would need to update TSB with any 
changes to his contact details.  
At the time the account was closed Mr R was in a plan with a debt management charity, but I 
cant see it was updated of Mr Rs circumstances changing or that he was no longer living at 
his current address.
I understand Mr Rs comments that leaving his address was not his choice. I am sorry to 
hear that. But hes acknowledged TSB were not made aware of this or his circumstances at 
the time. And he didnt contact it for nearly four years. 
I appreciate the reasons Mr R has given for this. And he has my natural sympathy. But I 
dont think TSB have acted unfairly and I wouldnt expect them to keep an overdrawn 
account open indefinitely.
Mr R said he feels TSB has discriminated against him.  It isnt the role of this service to make 
a finding about whether a financial business has acted unlawfully in discriminating against a 
customer on the basis of a protected characteristic. However, I have looked at whether TSB 
dealt with Mr Rs account as I would have expected it to and whether it treated him fairly. 
Having considered everything available I cant see TSB were made aware of his 
circumstances at the time or that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it has handled 
his account.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman