DRN-3964767
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is unfairly holding her liable for a Bounce 
Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
In 2020, a successful application for a £15,000 BBL was made to Barclays, and the funds 
were paid into Miss Es account. The money was then used to purchase a car in her ex-
partners name.
BBLs were designed, under a government-backed scheme, to help businesses get finance 
more quickly if they were adversely affected by the coronavirus outbreak. 
Miss E said she was coerced by her violent ex-partner into obtaining the loan. She said she 
shouldnt be held responsible for the repayment of the debt, as she didnt benefit from it. 
Barclays said there was no bank error in giving the loan. It said it wasnt made aware of 
Miss Es circumstances until the loan was defaulted. 
Our investigator said she was very sorry to hear that Miss E had been a victim of abuse. But 
the investigator didnt think that the bank should be required to write off the loan. She gave 
the following reasons, in summary:
Its important to consider whether the bank ought to have been aware that Miss E 
was in a vulnerable position, and what it should have done differently.
When debits and credits to and from Miss Es ex-partner first appeared on her 
account, they were sporadic, with no clusters of payments. The account almost 
always remained in credit and there was no change in the way the account was run.
The bank wasnt told what was happening. So, from all the information available at 
the time, Barclays had no indication of economic abuse.
Miss E applied for the BBL. Before giving the loan, the bank asked for further 
evidence, which was provided. The money went into the account owned by Miss E.
Most of the funds were spent on a car. It was a chip and pin purchase and there was 
no bank error in that transaction. Miss Es loss occurred when ownership of the car 
was put in her ex-partners name. Had the money stayed in Miss Es account, or had 
the car been purchased in her name, there would have been no loss.
After considering the information that Barclays possessed at the time, the 
investigator concluded that there was no bank error. She didnt think the bank ought 
to have done anything differently, and she therefore didnt think Barclays should be 
required to write off the loan.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss E, but Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, 
and for largely the same reasons. I dont have much to add to the investigators points 
summarised above.
Miss E has acknowledged that she applied for the loan. In her complaint, she described how 
she was coerced into doing so by her ex-partner, who treated her cruelly. But Barclays has 
said there was no reasonable opportunity for the bank to identify that the customer was 
being coerced, and in my view, the available evidence supports this. I cant see any errors or 
failings in Barclays actions when it agreed Miss Es loan application, paid the funds into her 
account, and executed the payment for the purchase of the car.
Moreover, I agree with the investigator that Miss Es loss came about when ownership of the 
car was put in her ex-partners name  a process that didnt involve the bank.
In the circumstances, I cant reasonably require the bank to take responsibility for Miss Es 
loss.
I note that Barclays put Miss E in touch with its specialist support team regarding the debt. 
Im also satisfied that the bank provided her with details of independent organisations 
offering debt advice and support. 
I realise that Miss E will be disappointed by my decision and I acknowledge the depth of her 
feelings about the case. She has had a wretched time and these events leave her in a very 
difficult financial situation. But I find that Barclays has done nothing wrong, so I cant fairly or 
reasonably require it to write off the loan debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman