DRN-4385405
The complaint
Ms B complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In October 2022, Ms B received a message from a friends social media account 
recommending a broker who claimed to work for a company Ill refer to as U. Believing it to 
be a genuine investment could help her to make money from investing in cryptocurrency. 
She contacted the broker who told her to open a Revolut account and to purchase 
cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto an online 
wallet. On 24 October 2022 and 25 October 2022, she made two payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as M totalling £6,000 using a debit card 
connected to her Revolut account. 
On 25 October 2022, Ms B made further attempts to transfer money to M, all of which were 
unsuccessful. Following the interactions, she had with Revolut concerning the payments, her 
account was temporarily restricted, and she eventually realised shed been scammed. 
She complained to Revolut with the assistance of a representative who argued the payment 
activity was highly unusual when compared with the normal operation of the account as Ms 
B had paid new payee linked to cryptocurrency from a newly opened account. But Revolut 
refused to refund any of the money shed lost. It said there was no valid chargeback claim 
because once a money order is processed, the service is considered provided. 
Ms B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service and her representative has 
explained the scam had an adverse effect on Ms Bs health and wellbeing, as well as her 
finances. 
Revolut further commented that each of the payments were 3DS authenticated, so it had no 
reason to stop the payments. And they were received into an account under Ms Bs control, 
so the fraudulent activity didnt occur from Ms Bs Revolut account. It said the account was 
opened on 24 October 2022, so it was difficult to identify them as unusual or outside Ms Bs 
normal spending behaviour. It explained that its customers dont behave in the same way as 
customers of traditional high street banks and its not unusual for them to perform high 
velocity transactions which leave their balance close to zero. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think the 
disputed payments were particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance, so Revolut didnt 
miss an opportunity to intervene. She explained this was a new account, so there was no 
transaction history to compare the payments with, and the first payment was low value, so it 
would have appeared routine.
 
She accepted the second payment was a higher amount, but she explained it isnt unusual 
for customers to make occasional larger payments. She also noted there were no warnings 
about M, and as Ms B didnt speak to or interact with Revolut at the time of the payments, 
she didnt think it missed an opportunity to identify they were being made in relation to a 
scam.
She added that even if Revolt had intervened on 25 October 2022, she didnt think it would 
have made a difference to the outcome because when it did intervene, it didnt uncover the 
scam.
Ms B has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, arguing Revolut 
should have intervened when she made the second payment as it was a large amount 
compared to how she normally operated the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms B has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover Ms Bs payments when 
she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Ms B).
Ms Bs own testimony supports that she used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers.to M. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Ms Bs 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts 
decision not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies was fair.
Im satisfied Ms B authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her 
bank account, Ms B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
It's not in dispute that this was a scam, but although Ms B didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
PreventionIve thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Revolut ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were 
part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms B 
when she tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an 
account, Id expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Ms B from financial harm 
due to fraud. 
The first two payments didnt flag as suspicious on Revoluts systems. Ms B was paying a 
legitimate cryptocurrency merchant and the account was newly opened, so there was no 
spending history to compare the payments with. The first payment was low value and 
wouldnt have been concerning, and I dont think Revolut needed to intervene when Ms B 
made the second payment. This is because even though the payment was a higher value, 
the spending behaviour was consistent with the reason given for the opening of the account 
and as there was no other spending to compare the payment with, I dont think it was 
suspicious enough to have warranted an intervention. 
Revolut did intervene on 25 October 2022, when Ms B tried to make further payments to M, 
and Im satisfied the interventions contributed to the discovery that she had been scammed. 
But if it had intervened when Ms B made the second payment, it would only have been 
required to provide a written warning and based on the fact Ms B made several attempts to 
make a further payment notwithstanding relevant scam warnings in the live chats she 
engaged in, I dont think a written warning when she made the second payment would have 
made a difference to her decision to go ahead with the payment.
Im sorry to hear Ms B has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman