DRN-3209205
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to Mr R 
(the person whose estate is referred to as Mr T above) by HSBC UK Bank Plc in 1998. The 
complaint is that the PPI was mis-sold. 
The complaint is brought by the estate of the late Mr R (called Mr T in the header above).
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought HSBCs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr R paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Representatives for the estate of Mr R, disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt 
raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments made 
previously. Mr Rs estate (its executor) also requested a decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like the sale to Mr R. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of the PPI, to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think HSBC made it clear Mr R didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I say 
this because nothing has been said to make me think this wasnt made clear. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr R, so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about his circumstances at the time shows the policy wasnt unsuitable for 
him. For example, he was eligible for the cover and Ive nothing to suggest the policy 
benefit wouldnt have been useful for him - taking into account the work benefits he might 
also have received. So I think it likely he had a need for the cover. 
Also nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation wouldve made it hard to claim and 
Ive nothing showing he had any health issues the policy terms for pre-existing medical 
conditions mightve excluded. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. Also I think it likely the cover was affordable.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think he wouldve done so 
without having an idea of what it was for - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. It wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, and it seems like the benefit 
wouldve been useful to him if he couldnt work for an extended time.
Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr R thought he was 
buying from the information its likely he was given  and, with this and all Ive said above 
in mind, I dont think he wouldve declined it had HSBC given him any more information.
Overall, I consider Mr R wouldve still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances, I think the 
policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work due to disability 
or unemployment. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was 
getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve have taken it in any event.
The representatives of the estate of Mr R have raised a number of what I consider to be 
general complaint points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points 
include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented 
poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled 
with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have 
disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and 
the impact on the chances of making a claim.
The representatives of the estate of Mr R have not said how these points apply to the 
specific facts and circumstances of this complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. Having 
done so, these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This 
means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to the estate of Mr R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so, Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mr R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mr R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
HSBC didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representatives for the estate of Mr R have made a number of representations about 
this part of the complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, the representatives have said the estate of Mr R should get back all the money 
Mr R paid for the policy because: HSBC failed to tell Mr R about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr R 
wouldnt have taken the policy had he known about the level of commission - and the estate 
of Mr R should receive a refund of all the premiums Mr R paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for the 
estate of Mr R in order to remedy the unfairness caused by HSBC not disclosing the high 
level of commission to Mr R before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as the representatives of the estate of Mr R suggest, driven to conclude that 
Mr R wouldnt have purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure to disclose the level of 
commission, for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return to the estate of Mr R some of the money Mr R paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves the 
estate of Mr R in the same position as if Mr R had still taken the policy Ive concluded above 
he wouldve still taken if HSBC had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint or make any award in favour 
of the estate of Mr R for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the estate of Mr R an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman