DRN-2540363
The complaint
Mr G isnt happy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt remove adverse information from 
his credit file which they had previously told him they would do.   
What happened
Mr G had a credit agreement with Tesco which he repaid by monthly direct debit. In May 
2020, Mr G wanted to change the date of the direct debit so that it better aligned with when 
he got paid. Mr G attempted to do this online but was unable to do so.
Later that month, the direct debit payment due on the account wasnt taken. This led to 
Tesco applying a late payment fee and interest to the account and reporting the late 
payment to the credit reference agencies.
Mr G called Tesco when he realised what had happened and was told that there had been 
an error of some kind and that the fees and interest would be refunded. Mr G was also told 
that his credit file would be amended so that no adverse information would be recorded.
However, while Tesco did refund the fees as they said that they would, they didnt refund the 
interest and they didnt remove the late payment marker from Mr Gs credit file. Mr G wasnt 
happy with this, and so he made a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Gs complaint. They apologised to Mr G because they felt that their 
agent shouldnt have told Mr G that Tesco would remove the late payment marker from his 
credit file. Instead, Tesco noted that they have an obligation to report late payments to the 
credit reference agencies, and because Mr Gs payment was missed, Tesco felt that they 
had updated his credit file appropriately. However, Tesco did agree to refund the interest as 
they had previously said they would, and they offered Mr G £25 by way of apology for the 
incorrect information he had received.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, they noted that 
while a payment had been missed, they didnt feel that Mr G should be held primarily 
accountable for this, and that Tescos online systems had played a role in why the direct 
debit wasnt taken. So, our investigator upheld the complaint in Mr Gs favour and said that 
Tesco should remove the adverse information from Mr Gs credit file.
Tesco didnt agree with this outcome, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for essentially 
the same reasons. So, I will be upholding this complaint and asking Tesco to remove the 
adverse information from Mr Gs credit file.
This isnt a decision Ive taken lightly, and its entirely appropriate that Tesco should highlight 
their obligation, as a regulated organisation, to report true and accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies. However, in this particular instance, I feel that there are mitigating 
circumstances which lead me to believe that it wouldnt be fair to record a late payment 
marker on Mr Gs credit file at this time.
Firstly, Mr G didnt miss the direct debit payment in question because of a lack of available 
or a financial inability to make the payment of any kind. Rather, the reason that the payment 
was missed was because of a technical misunderstanding surrounding Mr Gs attempt to 
change the date of his direct debit to better align with the day he got paid. Indeed, Mr G was 
actively trying to minimise the risk that a payment would be missed by trying to ensure that 
payments would be taken on the day that the maximal amount of funds would be available in 
his account.
Secondly, as alluded to above, the direct debit payment failed due a technical 
misunderstanding. I have reviewed all the information provided to this service by both Tesco 
and Mr G, and I will note that both sides of this disagreement have their merits. For instance, 
it can reasonably be said that Mr G should have been more aware of the potential for this 
direct debit payment to not be made.
However, Tesco have confirmed that when Mr G accessed their online systems to attempt to 
amend the direct debit  which he was ultimately unable to do  because Mr G clicked the 
update button, a new direct debit mandate was requested and the old one cancelled, even 
though no update to the direct debit information had actually been made.
So, I can understand why, given that Mr G had not amended his direct debit details, he might 
not think that any further action needed to be taken, and why an online warning to the 
contrary might be overlooked. 
That isnt to say that I feel that Mr G bears no responsibility for what happened here, but 
rather that I can understand why he might not have given the matter his full attention. 
importantly, I cant conclude that Mr G is entirely at fault for the payment not being made. 
And this, along with Mr Gs intention in amending the direct debit being as explained above, 
leads me to feel that it isnt fair or reasonable that he should incur a late payment marker on 
his credit file in these particular circumstances.
It follows that I will be upholding this complaint and asking Tesco to remove the adverse 
information from Mr Gs credit file. But I wont be asking Tesco to take any further action, 
including making any additional offer of compensation to Mr G beyond that which they have 
already made, as I dont feel that to do so would be appropriate in this instance.   
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should remove the adverse information from Mr Gs credit file 
and honour any offers of compensation made previously to Mr G, if they have not already 
done so.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC on the 
basis that I have explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman