DRN-4465317
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) gave
her a loan she couldnt affordable because she had a lot of other debt at the time.
What happened
Miss H was advanced one loan of £1,880 on 31 August 2022. Miss H was due to make 11
monthly payments of £314.94 followed by a final payment of £295.66. Miss H has had some
problems repaying the loan and Lending Stream has said the outstanding balance has been
sold to a third party.
Following Miss Hs complaint, Lending Stream wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to
Uphold it. Unhappy with this response, Miss H referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator who upheld the complaint. He said based
on the loan term and nature of the lending, Lending Stream ought to have done further
checks before granting the loan. Had further checks been conducted then it wouldve
discovered Miss H had at least three outstanding payday loans at the time and so the
payments for this loan werent sustainable.
Lending Stream didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and in summary said:
Proportionate checks were conducted because Lending Stream used information 
from its credit check to increase the expenditure figure provided by Miss H.
The credit checks didnt show any defaults or delinquencies within the last year and 
showed Miss H had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
It wouldnt have been proportionate to have reviewed Miss Hs bank statements.
The adjudicator explained why these comments didnt change his mind. Lending Stream
didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me. I then proceeded to issue a 
provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Both parties were given a further opportunity to provide any new submissions, but these 
needed to have been received no later than 17 November 2023. 
Neither party has provided anything new for my consideration and as the deadline for a 
response has now passed, I am proceeding to issue the final decision.  
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the
amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances of the application. Lending Streams checks couldve
taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size
of the repayments, and Miss Hs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors
include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H. The adjudicator didnt consider
this applied in Miss Hs complaint and I agree, as only one loan was granted.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loan 
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able to repay 
her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
The adjudicator explained in his assessment why Lending Stream needed to have
conducted more thorough checks and these more in-depth checks wouldve led it to
conclude it ought to not have granted the loan. Ive thought about this, but I dont agree the
loan term on its own was enough to mean further checks needed to be done.
While the length of the agreement plays a part in whether further checks ought to have been
conducted, this wasnt an unusually long agreement for an instalment loan. I cant fairly say
that the fact the loan ought to have run for a year is solely enough to have prompted
Lending Stream to have conducted further checks.
Taking account of the fact that this was Miss Hs first loan from Lending Stream, I do think
the checks it carried out were proportionate and the checks also showed it that Miss H could
afford the repayments  Ive explained why below.
As part of her application, Miss H declared a monthly income of £2,500. Lending Stream
says it didnt feel it needed to make any adjustments to this income figure based on what it
knew about Miss H.
Miss H also declared monthly outgoings of £719. This was broken down as £540 for normal
expenses with £179 being attributed to credit commitments. However, Lending Stream says
it looked at other information such as statistics that relate to the population and it considered
how much people typically spend with their income.Having carried out this further check, Lending Stream didnt make any adjustments to the
expenditure figure Miss H declared for normal expenses. But, based on its response to the
adjudicators assessment Lending Stream did make adjustments to the credit commitments.
Before the loan was approved, Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that, although Lending Stream carried out a
credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or
possibly have declined Miss H s application.
Having looked at the credit results, in my view there wasnt anything that wouldve led
Lending Stream to have carried out further checks. It knew Miss H had 12 active accounts
and these accounts were costing at least £888 per month to service and repay.
Lending Stream could also see that Miss H hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last
three years or had any delinquent accounts either. Overall, there wasnt any signs, from the
credit check to indicate Miss H was in financial difficulties, or to have prompted Lending Stream to 
carry out further checks.
After carrying out the credit search, as Lending Stream knew that Miss Hs credit
commitments were more than the £179 she had declared, Lending Stream has explained
that it took the larger figure of £888, added together with the other living costs Miss H had
declared this gave monthly outgoings of £1,428. This still left more than sufficient disposable
income for Miss H to afford the loan repayments.
Given it was the first and only loan it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on
the information Miss H provided to it and what it collected to show she had sufficient
disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything to suggest that
Miss H was having either current financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments
would be unsustainable for her.
Taking everything into account, I am intending to not uphold Miss Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. I still dont think, given what 
Lending Stream knew about Miss H that it needed to do any further checks before lending. 
However, the checks it did do, were proportionate to the circumstances and showed it that 
Miss H would likely be able to afford her loan. 
I therefore do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman