DRN-3042751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim they made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2015, Mr and Mrs S were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 5-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2017 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £9,820 to mislead 
Mr and Mrs S  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so the 
true cost was £12,489.60.
Mr and Mrs S were promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £1,005,72 and this didnt take 
into account that after making their loan repayments Mr and Mrs S had an actual annual 
deficit of £1,856.77.
The credit agreement would be self-funded by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments alone.
The system would not cost them a penny. 
They would make savings on their electricity bills.
The CMC also said: Mr and Mrs S had been pressured into signing the agreement and 
purchasing the solar panel system; Shawbrook had failed to assess Mr and Mrs Ss credit 
worthiness; they had no warranty or guarantee despite being told the system would be under 
warranty for 20 years; and it hadnt been explained that the performance of the system 
would deteriorate slightly year on year.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs S and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December 
2013; copies of marketing material used by P; a job advert for P; the loan agreement with 
Shawbrook; and some of Mr and Mrs Ss FIT statements. 
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to
Mr and Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it 
said:
The fixed sum loan agreement made clear that the cash price of the system was 
£9,829.00 and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was 
£12,489.60.
The contract P had provided to Mr and Mrs S set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was 
not self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved.
The contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was £511.66, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were £208.16 a month, or £2,497.92 over the 
year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan 
repayments.
P denied that Mr and Mrs S were pressured into purchasing the system. It explained 
that Mr and Mrs S were made aware of their cancellation rights but did not execute 
these. P has also explained that Mr and Mrs S did not raise this with it.
The contract with P clearly says that the inverter has a 20-year warranty and that HIES 
had separately provided Mr and Mrs S with their warranty / guarantee.
The performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract.
As part of their loan application, Shawbrook had completed a full credit check to assess 
Mr and Mrs Ss credit worthiness and their ability to repay the loan. Mr and Mrs S had 
met its lending criteria.
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mr and Mrs S to it.
As Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. During our investigation 
Shawbrook provided a set of documents between Trading Standards and HIES in relation to 
P. Having considered all the information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think 
that P had misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the 
complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
The quotation is generated post-purchase and therefore Mr and Mrs S relied on the 
verbal representations made by P.
Mr and Mrs S did not possess the relevant expertise and knowledge to understand the 
various graphs and tables.
The CMC thinks when calculating the savings on Mr and Mrs Ss electricity P should 
have been calculated at 37% of the system generation.
The estimated performance over 20 years table doesnt compare the benefits against 
the loan repayments, isnt clear and doesnt show Mr and Mrs S would need to make 
additional contributions to their monthly loan repayments.
The graph on page 6 is extremely difficult for anyone without prior knowledge of Solar, 
the Feed in Tariff scheme, savings with additional products to understand. Furthermore, 
the graph titled average monthly returns over 20 years is misleading as it shows from 
months April to August monthly returns in excess of £80 per month. 
Mr and Mrs S opted for an OWL device as an optional extra for their solar panel system and this isnt guaranteed to generate any savings. Therefore, P shouldnt have relied 
upon it when calculating yearly benefits.
It is important to mention that P never included the OWL heating controller as an optional 
extra when calculating the potential benefits of Mr and Mrs Ss system.
The CMC also suggested that we speak to Mr and Mrs S for their recollections. When our 
investigator spoke to Mrs S, she told us:
She initially registered her interest for the system through an advert online.
P visited her home and was very persistent and didnt give her time to think about what 
was discussed before they committed to the purchase.
The sales representative said they would receive a percentage of the cost of the solar 
panels but what they did end up receiving was lower than what was said in the meeting. 
She couldnt remember specifically what was told due to the amount of time that has 
elapsed.
The sales representative said they had to pay the deposit straight away.
As no agreement could be reached about how to resolve the complaint, the case has been 
passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 75(1) 
says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement arranged by P, 
Shawbrook accepts that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs S 
could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by P in the same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 
75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook. For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation 
as an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party 
which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This says:(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there is or was an unfair relationship.
Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of the sale
Ive listened to the call that Mrs S had with our investigator and considered this along with 
the complaint the CMC submitted to Shawbrook. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ss recollections 
do differ in some respects from the complaint letter and their personal statement submitted 
by the CMC. 
As an example, in the complaint letter the CMC has said that Mr and Mrs S were cold called, 
whereas Mrs S told us that she registered their interest in the system online before being 
contacted by P.
Mr and Mrs S have decided to instruct the CMC to bring their complaint. The complaint letter 
submitted to Shawbrook was seven pages long and set out in some detail the reasons for 
the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were made that induced Mr and 
Mrs S to enter into the contract. No doubt it was written on the instructions of Mr and Mrs S 
and approved by them. 
The complaint letter is dated 15 March 2017, approximately 19 months after the date of sale, 
and I would expect this to reflect Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of what happened at the time 
the system was sold.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have spoken to our investigator and provided additional 
information that wasnt included in the initial complaint made on her behalf, there is a 
significant time difference between the date the complaint was made and the conversation 
with our investigator. I think this may help to explain the inconsistencies I have highlighted 
above. I think that its reasonable to assume that the CMCs letter accurately reflects what 
Mr and Mrs S say they told it and their version of events at the time of sale, especially as the 
CMC has put the alleged representations in quotation marks. So, in so far as there are any 
discrepancies that have a material impact on my decision, Ive placed more weight on the 
submissions made in the original letter of complaint. 
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Ss solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering 
whether there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ss 
recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The quotation document
Mr and Mrs S say they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by their FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
whether this supports what they say they were told as I consider the quote was central to the 
sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote. 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, make it clear that Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive a total income in year one of £224.30 from their FIT.
Page nine of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect 
from their system. The expected year one electricity savings is £170.69 and the combined 
income and savings, including the savings attributed to the voltage optimiser, in year one is 
shown as £511.66. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The following page, page 10, has a section titled Repayments. There are three tables set 
out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The 120 months table is highlighted but I 
have focused on the 60-month table as this is the finance option chosen by Mr and Mrs S. 
The table sets out that there are 60 monthly payments of £208.17 due and compares the 
overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, with the 
expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare their FIT income to their 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that they were told 
their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr and Mrs S have said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,820.00. They 
have said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £12,489.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs S made it clear that the cost of the 
system was £9,820.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the 
total amount of credit is £9,820.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would 
be £12,489.60.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,820.00, Mr and Mrs S 
would pay more than this as they had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would not cost them a penny, 
and that they could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £511.66.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs S could expect to make a 
loss of £166.42 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £163.81 a 
month. It wouldnt be until the loan was repaid that they would have sufficiently recouped any 
previous annual losses and the system would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
or indeed until the loan had been repaid, and Im therefore unable to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs S were told that the system would not cost them a penny. I think the quote is clear that 
there would be a difference between their expected income and monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page six of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between the 
expected income and loan repayments:
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would not cost them a penny as the graph, in
my view, clearly illustrates the expected shortfall between the expected income compared to
the monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs S were told that theyd receive a year one benefit of £511.66 as 
this was the expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on their 
energy bills. Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs S were led to believe that theyd receive this sum in their hand. Im satisfied 
that the quote makes it clear that theyd have to make loan repayments and overall there 
would be a deficit.
I also dont accept that Mr and Mrs S were told by P that the system would pay for itself over 
the term of the loan. Page 12 of the quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 
20 years:
This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement  so, after the 5-
year loan term. This table also sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P 
made them aware that performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. The 
quote document also refers to any warranty associated with the system or the inverter and 
whilst Mr and Mrs S have said they dont have a warranty, Im satisfied that this is not the 
case.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. The quote sets out that the system was expected to 
produce 1,461.70 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive.
Mr and Mrs S provided a meter reading to their FIT provider on 13 February 2017. The 
meter reading was 2,168.01 kWh. I have calculated that the system generates, on average, 
4.03 kWh per day or 1,470.86 kWh a year. This is slightly higher than the estimated 
generation provided in the quote, so Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with, or 
in excess of, the quote.
Ive gone on to consider whether P has overstated the potential income and savings Mr and 
Mrs S could expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote provided to Mr and Mrs S was personalised to their specific circumstances and 
used a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs S would use rather than buying it from their energy provider, leading to 
savings on their energy bills, and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the 
expected annual increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI 
were based on the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote. 
The quote sets out that Mr and Mrs S were expected to use, or self-consume, 75% of the 
kWh generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual 
saving of £170.69. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS 
data Ive mentioned above.
The CMC thinks that this saving has been exaggerated and that a 37% self-consumption 
rate would be fair. 37% is the rate a leading solar expert considers fair and the CMC 
provided a report which is dated a few years after Mr and Mrs Ss system was installed.
Mr and Mrs S have provided their electricity bills from before and after installation of the 
system. These show an annual reduction of £292.32 which is higher than the estimates 
provided at the point of sale.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mr and Mrs S were expected to self-
consume were both reasonable assumptions for P to have made.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs S could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 
8.38% and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view explain why Mr and Mrs S arent receiving the financial returns 
from the system that they may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2014. I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used these 
assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the view that 
this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 16 and 
certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be 
disappointed by the financial returns from their system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P 
using unreasonable assumptions when they entered into the contract for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has said that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im 
of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view the CMC said that not all the evidence it had provided 
had been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P and the 
findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel hearing 
from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant be sure that this 
was provided to Mr and Mrs S, or that it relates to the time their panels were sold. Whilst it 
does refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, I dont believe I can place 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mr and Mrs Ss personalised 
quote. 
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, over a year before Mr 
and Mrs S entered into their contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve 
Ps sales process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance its business 
paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This has 
ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved before Mr and Mrs S entered into their contract and I have to take account of 
the particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Mr and Mrs S raised some concerns about Ps sales process, said that they were 
pressurised into entering the contract and loan agreement and that a proper affordability 
check wasnt conducted.
Based on the available evidence that has been provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured and, taking account of the overall cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont think the length of the meeting with P at Mr and 
Mrs Ss home was unreasonable.
Im also of the view that the checks on whether the loan was affordable to Mr and Mrs S 
were proportionate. 
The CMC has also explained that it believes the quotation was generated after the sale and 
was not provided to Mr and Mrs S at the point of sale. I note that the quotation is signed by 
Mr S and is dated 21 July 2015. I have seen no evidence to support the argument that the 
quotation was generated after the sale. I also note that Mr S has signed some of the pages 
of the quotation which I think demonstrates that it was generated and seen by Mr S at the 
point of sale.
Mr and Mrs Ss later recollections
As previously explained, Mr and Mrs S have provided additional information that wasnt 
included in the initial complaint made on their behalf and there is a significant time difference 
between the date the complaint was made and their later recollections. I think its reasonable 
to conclude that the CMCs letter accurately reflects what it was told by Mr and Mrs S about what happened at the time of sale; I have therefore placed more weight on the submissions 
made in the original letter of complaint.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and do not require 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything more to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman