DRN-4116088
The complaint
Mr R complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his car insurance claim.  
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which says the insurer can take over 
and deal with the claim in the way it sees fit. It isnt for this service to decide who is 
liable for an accident, however we do look at whether the insurer has acted 
reasonably in reaching its decision.  
I understand Mr R feels strongly that the third party was acting fraudulently. But I can 
see AXA have considered the photographs its provided but it concluded this wasnt 
enough to dispute the claim and without other evidence, such as CCTV or dash cam 
footage, it didnt feel there was enough to prove this was a fraudulent claim. I dont 
think this is unreasonable.
Mr R said he knows of cases with what he says are similar circumstances  which 
have been upheld. However, this service considers each case on its own individual 
facts, taking into account what we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And as Ive set out above, I dont think AXA have acted unfairly in how it has handled 
the claim or in reaching its decision. 
AXA acknowledged it could have better managed Mr Rs expectations regarding the 
likely outcome of the claim. It has offered £100 compensation to Mr R in recognition 
of this. In the circumstances I think this is fair and reasonable.
I acknowledge AXA have offered £200 compensation in total to Mr R. However, £100 
of this relates to how it has handled Mr Rs complaint and time taken to provide its 
response, which under our published rules isnt something we can consider at this 
service. So, I will not comment on this aspect further.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman