DRN-3808747
The complaint
Mr Ks father complains on his sons behalf that RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited 
unfairly delayed a withdrawal from Mr Ks child trust fund. 
What happened
Mr K held a child trust fund account with RBS. As of his eighteenth birthday, the account and 
any funds within it were his to do with as he pleased. 
Mr K wanted to purchase a vehicle. His father assisted him with gaining access to his 
money. But unfortunately, access to his investment was delayed. Mr Ks father made a 
number of phone calls to the bank to follow this matter up. Whilst doing so, he complained to 
RBS about the delay on his sons behalf.   
RBS apologised for the delay in its final response to Mr Ks complaint. It acknowledged the 
withdrawal process had taken longer than it should have. It offered Mr K £50 to say sorry for 
the delay itd caused. 
Mr Ks father remained unhappy with RBS response. So he referred the matter to our 
service. He felt his son had lost out on the opportunity to purchase a car because of the 
delay the bank had caused, and this should entitle him to further compensation.  
Upon referral to our service, RBS reconsidered its final response. It increased its offer to 
£100 to apologise for its delay. Our investigator gave the opinion that the banks new offer 
was fair and reasonable. They noted that: 
The banks delay had likely inconvenienced Mr Ks attempt to purchase a car 
Theyd seen no evidence that Mr K had permanently lost out as a result of the delay 
We couldnt award compensation for inconvenience Mr Ks father experienced
Mr Ks father didnt accept our investigators opinion. He noted that because of the delay, his 
sons investment had reduced in value by the time it was made available to him. 
When our investigator followed this matter up with RBS, it acknowledged Mr K was £4.47 
worse off as a result of its delay. It accepted that, ordinarily, it would consider reimbursing Mr 
K this amount plus 8% simple interest. However, the bank noted itd accidentally paid Mr K 
an additional £50, on top of the £100 itd intentionally paid him previously. RBS reasoned 
that as Mr Ks financial loss including any interest came to less than this amount, it didnt feel 
it should do more to compensate him. 
Our investigator updated their opinion to say that the £150 paid to Mr K fairly addressed both 
his financial loss, as well as any inconvenience caused by the banks delay. Mr Ks father 
didnt accept this. He wanted £250 to settle his sons complaint. As no agreement could be 
reached, the matters been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that RBS is at fault for the delay Mr Ks complaint focusses 
on. The banks said this was caused by an unusually high level of customer contact, around 
the time Mr K first sought access to his money. What I need to decide therefore, is what RBS 
should fairly and reasonably do, to put Mr K back in the position he wouldve been in, had it 
not caused the delay. 
Mr Ks father has explained to us in detail quite how much time he had to spend speaking to 
the bank on his sons behalf. Hes complained about how frustrating this was and alluded to 
call costs he incurred whilst assisting his son. Hes also suggested that hes personally 
incurred losses, linked to Mr Ks attempts at purchasing a vehicle. 
Im sure this was a frustrating experience for Mr Ks father, and I dont wish to make light of 
any difficulties hes had. But I cant consider compensating him for his own personal losses, 
or any inconvenience hes experienced. This is his sons complaint, not his own. When 
deciding this complaint, I can only consider compensating Mr K for the impact these events 
have had on him personally. And fortunately for Mr K, it seems his fathers actions have 
largely insulated him from the impact of the banks delay.
As his father tells it, Mr Ks involvement in the numerous calls placed to RBS was mostly 
limited to consenting for the bank to speak to his father. Beyond this, theres been no 
suggestion hes had to bear the cost of any calls himself, or that his involvement in these 
calls was ever particularly distressing. I accept however that participating in these calls will 
have been a modest inconvenience to Mr K. 
From what his father has told us, it seems that where Mr K felt the effects of the banks delay 
most keenly, was in the disruption caused to his attempts at purchasing a vehicle. His father 
has explained that Mr K was relying on the money from his investment to put down as a 
deposit on a vehicle. Hes further suggested that because of the delay, this opportunity is 
now totally lost to Mr K.  
Mr K was first able to access his money around 10 weeks after his initial enquiries began. So 
Im satisfied the banks failure to provide Mr K with easy access to his money is likely to have 
caused some upset or inconvenience. However, Ive not seen any evidence that would 
persuade me the banks actions have caused an irrevocable loss of opportunity like Mr Ks 
father has described. 
Mindful of this, Im satisfied the £100 the banks paid Mr K fairly and reasonably addresses 
the impact the delay had on him personally. So Ive moved on to consider whether the 
banks actions have caused any financial losses. 
In the course of our investigation, RBS identified Mr K wouldve been £4.47 better off if itd 
given him access to his investment when he first approached it. The bank appears to accept 
that simple interest at 8% would be due on this amount, as its actions left Mr K out of pocket. 
Ordinarily, I would direct that RBS should calculate whats due to Mr K and make a payment 
to cover this loss. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to do so on this occasion. RBS has mistakenly paid Mr K an additional £50 on top of the £100 it paid for the 
inconvenience it caused. Having reviewed the figures, Im satisfied that £50 is in excess of 
the amount that would otherwise be due to Mr K with respect to his financial loss, inclusive of 
interest. RBS has made no suggestion that it will seek to recover its overpayment to Mr K. 
Its my view therefore that RBS has paid Mr K more than it needed to, to address the loss its 
actions caused him. 
Having considered the entirety of Mr Ks complaint, Im satisfied that the £100 RBS has paid 
him fairly and reasonably addresses the impact caused by its delay. And that the £50 it 
erroneously paid him eclipses any financial loss he suffered as a result of its actions. As a 
result, I will not require the bank to make any further payment to Mr K with respect to this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. But for the reasons given above, I dont 
require RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited to take any further action.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman