DRN-3125393
The complaint
Mr F complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by David Bray 
Ltd (the respondent business in this complaint) and another financial business (which Ill call 
Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was unsuitable for him which has resulted in 
him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr F was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted a financial 
adviser, however this firm was unable to complete the advice process so it referred Mr F to 
David Bray. Mr F met with David Bray in December 2017, during which it gathered 
information about his circumstances and objectives. But as David Bray didnt hold the 
relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of 
his defined benefits in the BSPS, it said Firm B would provide Mr F with advice.
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr F a suitability report on 20 January 2018 advising him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. £53,194.30 was transferred to the new 
personal pension and was invested with R in a managed fund. Firm B charged Mr F £3,000 
for the advice, and Firm B paid £1,050 to David Bray as an introducer fee. Mr F was referred 
back to David Bray for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In 2020 Mr F complained to David Bray about the advice. David Bray told Mr F it hadnt 
provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had referred him to Firm B. 
Mr Fs representative asked our service to consider Mr Fs complaint. The representative 
said Mr F had been verbally advised to transfer by David Bray and he had relied on its 
advice, so it should also be held liable.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that David Bray had
advised Mr F to transfer his pension  he was satisfied that Mr F had only transferred his
pension because Firm B advised him to do so.
Mr Fs representative didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
My understanding of the representatives position is that David Bray should be held liable 
because it verbally advised Mr F to transfer his pension and Mr F relied upon that advice. It 
also argues there was a joint venture between David Bray and Firm B. And in addition, it 
says David Bray should be held liable because it did not treat Mr F fairly or have regard to 
his best interests. Ill address each point in turn.
Did David Bray advise Mr F to transfer?
David Bray did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm B, 
where Firm B would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client 
would be referred back to David Bray for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that David Bray advised Mr F 
to transfer his BSPS benefits. Its clear that Mr F met with David Brays adviser on a couple 
of occasions  this also meets with Mr Fs recollections. And Ive taken into account that 
David Bray has said it completed a pension transfer service questionnaire and risk 
assessment for Firm Bs benefit.
While these documents being completed by David Bray could have given rise to Mr Fs belief 
that David Bray was giving him advice, I think this was clearly done for Firm Bs benefit. In 
fact, the pension transfer service questionnaire bore Firm Bs name. And I dont think that 
any of these documents gave an indication that David Bray would be providing Mr F with 
advice. I can also see that the suitability report referred to David Bray specifically as an 
introducer.
I accept that David Brays adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr F and likely discussed 
his objectives and reasons for wanting to transfer out of the BSPS. But apart from the initial 
fact-finding documents, the remaining work required to put Mr F in a position to transfer was 
completed by Firm B. Firm B gathered further information from Mr F and requested a TVAS 
report. Firm B gave a formal recommendation to Mr F in writing in January 2018. The 
application form for the new personal pension included Firm Bs details and not David 
Brays. So, I think Mr F wouldve understood that it was Firm B, not David Bray, that was 
providing him with advice.
I think David Bray was probably hoping that Firm B would advise Mr F to transfer out of the 
BSPS so it could become the ongoing adviser and receive fees for this. And its possible that 
Mr F believed David Bray was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to show that David Bray gave Mr F a personal recommendation, either 
verbally or in writing. In my view, the evidence shows that Firm B advised Mr F to transfer 
out of the BSPS, not David Bray.
Its also possible that David Bray strayed into giving Mr F verbal advice to transfer his BSPS 
benefits, but regardless, I dont think he couldve done so based on those interactions alone. 
The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr F would be 
required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he wanted to 
transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was repeated in 
the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr F would need to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. Firm B issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr F recommending that he transfer out of BSPS to a flexible 
scheme and Firm B wrote to the trustees confirming that it had given Mr F that advice. David 
Bray did not produce such a document as it did not give Mr F any formal advice in respect of 
his pension. So, Mr F couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he had 
with David Bray or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt have been able to 
meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm B gave the advice for Mr F to transfer out of the BSPS. And 
I dont think David Brays earlier involvement should automatically make David Bray liable for 
the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B. It is my view that Firm B 
remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr F to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr F would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Fs 
representative says Mr F was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with David 
Bray. But on balance I dont think Mr F wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm B. 
Mr F was an inexperienced investor and had no real objectives as his retirement was so far 
away in the future. So, if Firm B had provided Mr F with clear advice in writing against 
transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr F wouldve acted 
against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with David Bray.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr F to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for 
Mr Fs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did David Bray and Firm B embark on a joint venture?
Mr Fs representative says a joint venture existed between David Bray and Firm B to 
facilitate Mr F transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for 
any financial loss Mr F has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
David Bray liable for the advice given to Mr F to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Fs 
representative states that Mr F was verbally advised to transfer by David Bray, Im satisfied 
Mr F transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm B advised him to do so, independently of 
David Brays involvement. So, I think Mr Fs losses flow from Firm Bs advice, rather than 
because of any interaction he had with David Bray before that.
David Bray did not treat Mr F fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Fs representative has suggested that David Bray didnt treat Mr F fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm B. It says that David Bray ought to have known that 
transferring out of a defined-benefit scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it 
endorsed the advice.
As I have said above, David Bray did not have the necessary regulatory permission to 
advise Mr F on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, David Bray could not have advised 
Mr F against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators 
starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As 
David Bray didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr F to Firm B, which was 
regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think David Bray could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr F fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was David Brays advice that ultimately led 
to Mr Fs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also not 
persuaded that David Bray made an error or treated Mr F unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require David Bray to pay compensation to Mr F or to take any further action in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman