DRN-1600503
 
The complaint
Miss M has complained that MBNA Limited mis-sold her a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss M took out the policy in 2001 over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. Miss M disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr Ms 
case.
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss M applied for the credit card by filling out a postal application form. She didnt apply for 
PPI at that time. It was a few days after the account had been set up that Miss M was sold 
PPI over the phone.
Ive seen a copy of the call script that was in use at the time. Im satisfied that the policy is 
presented as optional. As Miss M already had the credit card, I dont think she would have 
thought it was something she needed to say yes to in order to get the card agreed.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Ms recollection 
of events has faded, and indeed she has told us that she can remember nothing about the 
sale. Overall, based on the available evidence, I consider that Miss M probably agreed to 
buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
MBNA didnt advise Miss M to take out the card, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information to make an informed choice 
about whether or not it was right for her.
Miss M would only have received 10 days sick pay from her employer if she was off sick. 
And she didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I consider that 
she had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that MBNA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off as a result of anything MBNA may have done wrong, so theres nothing MBNA needs to do 
to put things right.
 My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman