DRN-3470392
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by AMG Wealth Solutions LLP (AMG Wealth) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Ps employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr P was concerned about what this meant for the security of his DB scheme, so he sought 
advice. Mr P met with his existing financial adviser, from another business, in October 2017 
and they completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. 
They also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which they deemed to be low 
medium  a rating of 5 on a scale of 1-10. This information was then passed to AMG Wealth 
because they held the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on DB pension transfers. 
Mr P met with AMG Wealth on two occasions in December 2017. 
Following these meetings, AMG Wealth advised Mr P to transfer his BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in two funds - a multi asset and a managed fund - 
which AMG Wealth said was aligned to Mr Ps attitude to risk, albeit it appears from what the 
suitability report says that this accounted for a slightly more cautious approach overall. In 
summary the suitability report said the key reasons for this recommendation were that Mr P 
was concerned about the financial security of the new BSPS2 scheme; the transfer away 
from the BSPS would provide the potential for growth, which when added to Mr Ps 
workplace pension would provide flexibility of benefits; and because Mr P wanted his partner 
to benefit from the full pension fund value upon his death.
Mr P accepted the advice and in April 2018 around £83,000 was transferred to Mr Ps new 
personal pension. 
In 2021 Mr P complained to AMG Wealth about the suitability of the transfer advice  he 
didnt think the advice was best for him, his pension or his family.
AMG Wealth didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary it said:
Mr P was given detailed information about his existing DB scheme along with the 
advantages of remaining in it.
Mr P received advice about the transfer and the potential benefits, but he was also 
given detailed risk warnings.
The transfer was suitable because it met Mr Ps stated needs and objectives.
The advisory process was conducted over a number of meetings, which gave Mr P 
the time to make an informed decision.
AMG Wealth carried out a thorough factfinding exercise and took reasonable steps to 
ensure the transfer was suitable, including adopting the starting point that the transfer 
was unsuitable.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr P asked this service to consider his complaint. An 
investigator upheld the complaint and required AMG Wealth to pay compensation. In 
summary they said the recommendation wasnt suitable because:
The transfer to a personal pension arrangement wasnt financially viable  the growth 
rate required to match Mr Ps DB scheme benefits was higher than was reasonably 
achievable at the time and when considering his attitude to risk.
There was nothing to support Mr Ps need for flexibility  he had at least thirty years 
to retirement and he didnt have any firm retirement plans.
There were alternative ways to provide lump sum death benefits  the primary 
objective of a pension is to provide a regular pension income.
While Mr P had concerns about the future of his DB scheme, the new BSPS2 
wouldve provided Mr P with his benefits and the PPF represented less risk than 
transferring.
Overall they said there was no compelling reason for Mr P to transfer out of his DB 
scheme which outweighed him giving up the guaranteed benefits he was entitled to. 
They said a transfer wasnt in Mr Ps best interests and said that, had things 
happened as they should have, Mr P wouldve opted in BSPS2.
AMG Wealth disagreed. In doing so, it provided a substantive response, which I have read in 
full. But in summary it said:
It firstly wanted to highlight some key things Mr P said at the time of the advice, 
including that he had concerns about his employer; he wanted to transfer out as soon 
as possible; and that the Time to Choose brochure hadnt changed his view to not 
remain in the scheme.
Despite Mr P saying that he had no investment experience in the attitude to risk 
questionnaire, he did have some investment experience because he was managing 
his current workplace pension on his own.
It questions the rationale for the investigators opinion, which it says appears to be 
based on the fact that AMG Wealth could not have known what Mr Ps circumstances 
or objectives would be when he reached retirement age and that the only relevant 
circumstances are those at the time of the advice. It says this approach would 
suggest there would never be circumstances in which advice to transfer out of a DB 
scheme would be suitable.
It did obtain information from Mr P about his objectives in retirement, which were to 
provide flexibility, the ability to take maximum tax-free cash and no income while he 
continued to work, and provide lump sum death benefits rather than a spouses 
pension as he wasnt married at the time.
It maintains its view that it took reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable 
based on the circumstances and objectives as expressed by Mr P at the time. It says it had to have regard for what Mr P said he wanted, in the context of clear advice, but 
it feels these are now being treated as largely immaterial with the benefit of hindsight. 
The critical yields were discussed in detail with Mr P, so it cannot be said that the 
value of the benefits being given up werent considered. But it said the critical yield 
had limited relevance to Mr P  it was based on a scheme that would no longer exist 
and while relevant for discussion purposes, income was not a priority.
It disagrees with the investigators view that there was limited opportunity to improve 
on the benefits of the DB scheme because a transfer met Mr Ps objectives, while 
aligned to his attitude to risk.
It disagrees that Mr P wouldve had to take more investment risk to achieve the 
growth rates required  the expectation of the funds chosen was that over a 35-year 
term the returns would exceed the PPF critical yield and match that of the existing 
scheme, albeit the existing scheme wouldnt exist in the future.
It considers the investigator placed a disproportionate focus on the critical yield, 
which doesnt account for Mr Ps wider financial circumstances it was required to take 
into account.
It was not inevitable that the BSPS2 would go ahead and it wasnt in a position to 
know whether the criteria that had to be met for it to be established would be met. It 
said that it did consider the PPF, but deemed it didnt meet Mr Ps objectives, albeit it 
did point out that this was a less risky option. It also said that the irrationality of 
scheme members concerns about the PPF are made with the benefit of hindsight 
and discount the negative information and messaging, including from the scheme 
trustee, that was circulating among scheme members at the time. 
There is no evidence Mr P wouldve remained in the scheme had he been advised to 
do so. Mr P had a strong and clear desire to proceed with the transfer. It advised him 
if he wanted a guaranteed pension at 65 he should remain in the scheme  but he 
didnt want to, which is borne out by his decision to proceed. It believes Mr P 
wouldve proceeded in any event and regardless of the advice it gave.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AMG Wealths actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
I can see that AMG Wealth has referred on several occasions to its requirement to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable for Mr P. And I agree that under 
COBS, AMG Wealth was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr P was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But additional regulations apply 
to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AMG Wealth 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ps best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
AMG Wealth produced a transfer value analysis report, as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme  referred to as the critical yield. It produced a number 
of these reports based on different providers and different investment funds. And from what I 
can make out, all were based on Mr Ps existing BSPS scheme benefits. But Mr P didnt 
have the option to remain in the existing BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or 
move with the scheme to the PPF.
I can see in the suitability report that AMG Wealth referred to and set out the details of the 
BSPS2. But it has also argued that there was no certainty at the time of the advice that it 
would be established  it says there were certain criteria that had to be met and it was in no 
position to know whether they would be met. I assume it is for this reason that it chose to 
carry out the analysis using Mr Ps benefits in the existing scheme.
But in my view, all of the information available at this time pointed to the BSPS2 going ahead 
as envisaged. At the time of the advice Mr P had received his Time to Choose pack. And 
details of the scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income 
benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. As I said, AMG Wealth referred to 
this in its suitability report. I accept its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think 
the benefits available to Mr P through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored into the advice Mr 
P was given, so that he was able to make a properly informed decision. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been consideredreasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr P was 29 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork said his intention was to 
continue working until 65, although it said he wanted to access his tax-free cash lump sum at 
the earliest point while he was still working. The TVAS report dated 18 December 2017, 
which appears to be the most relevant report here set out the relevant critical yields; at age 
65 it was 5.68% if Mr P took a full pension - the TVAS didnt provide the critical yield for a 
reduced pension and tax-free cash. The critical yield required to match the benefits provided 
through the PPF was 4.27% if Mr P took a full pension and 4.08% if he took tax-free cash 
and a reduced pension. 
But as Ive said above, Mr P remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided instead. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields to some 
degree, but I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits, particularly at age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.7% per year for 35 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps 
low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the critical yield if 
Mr P took a full pension through his existing scheme at age 65 was 5.68%. So, if Mr P were 
to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 65, I think the critical yield wouldve 
been somewhere between 5.68% and 4.27%, but most likely closer to 5.68%. Given the 
discount rate of 4.7% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr P was most 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he 
transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
AMG Wealth says that the funds were chosen with the expectation that over a 35-year term 
the returns would match that of the existing scheme critical yield. But not only was this not 
guaranteed, as I said above I think there would be little point in Mr P relinquishing the 
guarantees available to him through the DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme, which appears to be what AMG Wealth is arguing.
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.27% if Mr P 
took a full pension and 4.08% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. And I accept 
this is lower than the discount rate. But it is lower only by what I consider to be a small 
margin. 
Its also the case that these rates are only those to match the PPF benefits  not exceed 
them. And here because the difference between the two rates was so small, I think its likely 
that, at best Mr P would end up receiving benefits of broadly the same overall value as those 
he would receive through the PPF, as a result of investing in line with a low medium attitude 
to risk. There of course still remained the real risk that Mr P might end up with benefits of a 
lower overall value than those provided by the PPF.I can see AMG Wealth says the critical yield had limited relevance to Mr P. It says it was 
based on a scheme that would no longer exist ,and while relevant for discussion purposes, 
guaranteed income was not a priority  Mr P wanted to take his benefits flexibly. Ive already 
said why I think AMG Wealth shouldve provided critical yield figures based on the BSPS2. 
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should be downplayed here. I still 
consider it gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr P was considering giving up. 
Its also the case that the regulator required AMG Wealth to provide it and so deems it a 
necessary and important part of the decision-making process. Furthermore I think it was 
relevant in this case because I dont think Mr P was reasonably in a position to say with any 
degree of certainty whether he wanted to take a regular income at retirement or not. Mr Ps 
expected retirement was still more than three decades away, so given this period of time I 
think its possible that Mr P might want or indeed need some guaranteed income in 
retirement. And Mr Ps DB scheme would provide this.
So given Mr P was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, or at best match those if the scheme moved to the PPF, for this reason 
alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Of course, 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as AMG Wealth 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable and in Mr Ps best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
these below.
 
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons AMG Wealth recommended the transfer was because it provided 
Mr P with flexibility  for example the advice paperwork said Mr P wanted to access a cash 
lump sum while he was still working but not take an income at the same time.
But I dont think Mr P knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
Importantly in this case Mr P was only 29 years old and theres nothing to show or suggest 
that Mr P had anything that could reasonably be described as concrete plans for retirement. 
And this isnt surprising  he still had a significant period of his working life in front of him. 
The advice paperwork says Mr P wanted access to a cash lump sum at the earliest 
opportunity  in this case 58. But its also recorded that Mr P said potentially it is too far to 
judge... So it strikes me that Mr P didnt really know  I think it was simply a nice to have or 
something that seemed like a good idea to Mr P. Theres no evidence that Mr P needed 
access to a lump sum at this stage and AMG Wealth didnt interrogate Mr Ps apparent 
objective to understand why. 
Mr P also had his workplace defined contribution (DC) scheme, and with the potential of 
many years contributions ahead, this had the potential to be worth a not inconsiderable 
sum. Given the nature of a DC scheme, this already provided Mr P with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. 
And while  Mr Ps DB scheme didnt allow him to take his benefits flexibly  albeit he 
couldve opted to take them early and/or forego some income for a cash lump sum if his 
needs dictated later on  it seems Mr P already had a degree of flexibility in how and when 
he took his pension benefits when taking into account both his DB and his DC scheme.
So in any event, Mr P didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr P did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still many years 
away. While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Ps scheme moved to the PPF, if he 
opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, 
if indeed it was required. This ought to have been explained by AMG Wealth.
I can see AMG Wealth says it had to take into account Mr Ps objectives and have regard for 
what he said he wanted. But AMG Wealths role wasnt simply to transact or facilitate what 
Mr P said he wanted  its role was to really understand Mr Ps needs, his objectives and his 
plans for retirement and recommend what was in his best interests. But Im not persuaded it 
did this.
Turning to Mr Ps income need  Ive not seen anything to show that AMG Wealth 
considered what Mr Ps income need in retirement would be as part of its advice. Its likely at 
this stage Mr P wouldnt have known given it was so far in the future. But without asking and 
attempting to establish this, I dont think AMG Wealth was in a position to advise Mr P fully 
on his retirement needs. 
Looking at Mr Ps circumstances, Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr P needed variable 
income. And nothing to indicate that either opting into the BSPS2 or moving with the scheme 
to the PPF wouldnt have provided Mr P with a solid income foundation upon which his other 
provision could supplement, to meet his overall need.
For example  at age 65 under the BSPS, Mr P was due an annual pension of just over 
£8,700, and under the PPF it was around £6,600. If Mr P opted into the BSPS2 I think Mr Ps 
pension at 65 wouldve been somewhere between these two figures (and closer to the 
BSPS.) Given Mr P didnt have any known need for a cash lump sum, I think Mr P couldve 
met his income needs in the BSPS2 until his state pension became payable at age 68. I 
think any shortfall couldve been met with a combination of Mr Ps future wifes pension, and 
by accessing income and/or by taking his tax-free cash entitlement from his DC scheme. Mr 
P wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, 
to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I think its also the case that Mr P 
didnt have to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
As I said earlier on, I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. I 
think all of the information from the scheme trustees indicated that it was likely the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, but I accept it wasnt certain. And if Mr P had opted into 
the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. As I 
said above, at age 65 Mr P wouldve been entitled to a pension of around £6,600 a year. 
This was lower than the pension I think hed be entitled to under the BSPS2. But I dont think 
it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. 
As Ive said above, Mr P wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension 
became payable, as well as his future wifes pension to supplement their household income. 
So, I still think Mr P couldve met his needs in retirement even if the scheme moved to the 
PPF.
Overall, I think Mr P couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF at age 65. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
I can see AMG Wealth said in response to the investigators view that it believes the 
rationale theyve adopted means there would never be circumstances in which advice to 
transfer out of a DB scheme would be suitable. But Im satisfied that in this particular case 
because Mr Ps retirement needs were unknown, it wasnt a suitable recommendation for 
Mr P to take irreversible decision to transfer. Death benefits
The suitability report said that Mr P wanted to ensure that his partner could benefit from any 
available funds in the event of his death, particularly as he wasnt married.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr P. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Ps security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Ps death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
I also think the existing death benefits within the DB scheme were underplayed. While Mr P 
was single at the time of the advice, it was recorded that he was marrying his partner within 
six months of the advice. So I think the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme 
wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr P predeceased her. There was also provision for a 
childrens pension up to age 23 (if they remained in full-time education) which couldve been 
beneficial if Mr P and his wife decided to have children. I dont think AMG Wealth made the 
value of these benefits clear enough to Mr P. They were guaranteed and escalated  and 
under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would also be calculated as if no tax-free cash had 
been taken. Its also the case that it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
Furthermore, I think AMG Wealth ought reasonably to have known that Mr P had generous 
death-in-service cover through his employer if he died before retirement. So he already had 
lump sum death benefits available, which he could nominate his future wife to receive. And it 
also knew that Mr P was paying into the current DC scheme and he wouldve been able to 
nominate his wife as beneficiary of this plan too. 
Furthermore, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse over and above that 
which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think AMG Wealth shouldve instead explored 
additional life insurance. And in my view the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr P 
how much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse, after taking into account the above 
existing means. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which was likely to be cheap to provide, particularly given Mr Ps young age and the fact he 
was in good health. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think AMG 
Wealth did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr P to meet this 
objective.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
I have no doubt that Mr P was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension 
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF circulating and I can understand why, when asked, Mr P said he wanted to break ties with 
his employer and wanted to retain control of his pension benefits.
So its quite possible that Mr P was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and the negative perception of the PPF. But it was 
AMG Wealths obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive already explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to 
Mr P through the BSPS2 into account, and I think this wouldve alleviated Mr Ps concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF. Ive also noted AMG Wealths points about Mr Ps 
negative perception of the BSPS2 because he didnt trust his employer. But AMG Wealth 
ought to have reassured Mr P that an independent board of trustees was responsible for 
managing the scheme and they were required to act in members best interests.  
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AMG 
Wealth shouldve reassured Mr P that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning 
as he thought or was led to believe.
As I set out above, the income available to Mr P through the PPF wouldve still provided a 
solid base, which his other means could supplement to likely meet his income need at 
retirement. He was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was 
not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that Mr Ps concerns shouldve led to 
AMG Wealth recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr P was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr P. But as I said earlier, AMG Wealth wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr P might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr P needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring to a personal arrangement Mr P was, at best, likely to receive broadly the same 
overall retirement benefits at age 65. And I dont think there were any other particular or 
compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was 
in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time 
when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, I think AMG Wealth shouldve advised Mr P to opt into BSPS2. I appreciate that the 
BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead when the advice was given. But I think it was clear to 
all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr P had over 30 years before he expected to 
retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it 
would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr P wouldve retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if he needed to. Also, Mr P was shortly due 
to be married and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, 
and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr P chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous 
under the BSPS2.
Of course I have to consider whether Mr P wouldve gone ahead in any event, against AMG 
Wealths advice. AMG Wealth says there is no evidence Mr P wouldve remained in the 
scheme had he been advised to do so. It says Mr P had a strong and clear desire to proceed 
with the transfer. It says it advised him that if he wanted a guaranteed pension at 65 he 
should remain in the scheme  but he didnt want to, which is borne out by his decision to 
proceed. It believes Mr P wouldve proceeded in any event and regardless of the advice it 
gave.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against AMG Wealths advice. I say this because, while 
Mr P was motivated to transfer when he approached AMG Wealth and I can see that Mr Ps 
recorded comments in the relevant sections of the advice paperwork convey a sense of 
urgency about things and an anxiety about the schemes future, on balance, I still think Mr P 
wouldve listened to and followed AMG Wealths advice if things had happened as they 
should have and it recommended he opt into the BSPS2.
Mr P identified himself as an inexperienced investor during the advice process and Ive not 
seen anything which contradicts this. AMG Wealth has challenged Mr Ps categorisation of 
himself as inexperienced and argues that he had some experience because he was 
manging his current workplace pension. But Ive not seen enough to persuade me that Mr P 
was actively managing his workplace pension. From what I can see, the pension transfer 
analysis document simply recorded that Mr P had recently paid more attention to his pension 
and it had become important to him. In any event, I dont consider Mr P was someone who 
possessed the necessary knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the advice they were 
given in complex pension matters. Mr Ps pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision at this time. So, if AMG Wealth had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
 
AMG Wealth says Mr P had a strong and clear desire to proceed with the transfer. It says it 
advised Mr P that if he wanted a guaranteed pension at 65 he should remain in the scheme 
 but he didnt want to, which is borne out by his decision to proceed. But Im not persuaded 
this is evidence that Mr P wouldve proceeded regardless of the advice he was given. As I 
explained earlier on, not only did AMG Wealth not properly take into account the benefits 
available through the BSPS2 to allow Mr P to make an informed decision, its also the case 
that AMG Wealths recommendation, as it describes it, was completely undermined by the 
positive recommendation that Mr P should transfer out of his DB scheme. So it seems to me 
that Mr Ps decision to proceed with a transfer was because AMG Wealth had told him that it 
was the right thing for him to do. 
 
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about his employer and the future of the scheme 
were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or 
in his best interests. If AMG Wealth had explained to Mr P that he could meet all of his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr P would have insisted on transferring out of his scheme.
In light of the above, I think AMG Wealth should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr P. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
AMG Wealth  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr P. Taking everything into account, including that I 
consider Mr Ps retirement provision is of great importance to him, I think the unsuitable 
advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. 
However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or 
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr P whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr P has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr P. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for AMG Wealths unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P 
would have most likely transferred his benefits into BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
So AMG Wealth should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
AMG Wealth must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, compensation should be 
based on a normal retirement age of 65 in this case. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.AMG Wealth may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date AMG Wealth receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes AMG Wealth to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AMG Wealth to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AMG 
Wealth Solutions LLP to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman