DRN-2658499
The complaint
Mr I complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) gave him a credit card when he was in 
financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr I took out a credit card with a credit limit of £250 with Vanquis in March 2019. He says 
Vanquis acted irresponsibly in providing this facility as he was in financial difficulty at the 
time. 
Vanquis said that it carried out appropriate checks and saw nothing to suggest that Mr I was 
in financial difficulty, and that it thought Mr Is difficulties started when he lost his job in mid 
2019. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr I was unhappy with this and brought his case to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded that 
Vanquis had carried out proportionate checks in relation to Mr Is application and had not 
acted irresponsibly in giving him a credit card with a limit of £250.
Mr I wasnt happy with this and so the case has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I complains that Vanquis acted irresponsibly in giving him a credit card. He says he was 
suffering financial difficulties at the time. In particular, he says that hed had four short term 
loans from a company in the same group as Vanquis (which I will call X) which had been 
taken out, repaid and re-borrowed in quick succession shortly before his application. 
He says that he missed payments on his credit card because the borrowing granted was 
unaffordable.
Before agreeing to give Mr I a credit card, Vanquis was required to assess whether he could 
afford repayments on the credit limit it was offering. 
The Financial Conduct Authority has laid down rules in its handbook (CONC) that say what 
a lender needs to do before granting credit. These rules require the lender to undertake a 
reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer . This includes an 
assessment of whether the customer is likely to be able to repay the credit limit over a 
reasonable period of time in a sustainable manner. The customer should be able to repay 
without having to borrow to do so, or the credit having an adverse effect on their financial 
situation.
There is no set way to assess creditworthiness, but the assessment should be reasonable 
and proportionate to the customers circumstances, such as the credit limit, the customers 
financial situation and their borrowing history.  I am also mindful that Vanquis is a second 
chance lender and offers credit to individuals with a low credit score. This means that 
having a high level of borrowing, or historic negative lending history wouldnt necessarily 
mean that Vanquis would decline an application. But it still had to carry out a proportionate 
assessment.
Vanquis considered information provided by Mr I and a credit reference agency. 
Looking at the information provided by Mr I when he applied, he said he had a personal 
income of £16,000 and was living with his parents. Vanquis assessed his living expenses as 
£476.67 (the amount declared by Mr I was £350). I can see that Vanquis carried out a credit 
reference agency search which showed Mr I had a number of loans and credit cards. The 
information about Mr I showed that his total active non-mortgage debt was £2100 at the time 
of the application, so although he had a number of loans and cards, his overall debt was 
relatively low. Vanquiss internal notes state that there were no defaults or county court 
judgments (CCJs), against Mr I. Vanquis also said that there were no missed payments 
registered against Mr Is external lines of credit. Taking account of all of this, and the low 
limit of £250 offered, I am satisfied that Vanquis carried out a proportionate assessment. 
I note that Vanquis wasnt able to provide a copy of the search it carried out, but it did 
provide credit reference agency data for the months immediately after Mr Is application. This 
showed a picture that was consistent with the position recorded by Vanquis when Mr I 
applied for his card. For example, in the month after the application, the data showed no 
defaults or CCJs, and a current delinquent value of zero, and as such supports the 
information recorded by Vanquis.        
The data also shows one instance of over limit. As the rest of the information Vanquis saw 
gave it no cause for concern, I cant reasonably say that this shouldve changed Vanquiss 
lending decision.
Mr I feels that his recent use of short term loans with X showed that he was in financial 
difficulty, and that given the group relationship between Vanquis and X, Vanquis shouldve 
taken account of this, and not offered him a card. While I can understand that Mr I feels that 
account information should be shared and used within a group of companies, I note that any 
current borrowing wouldve been included in the outstanding debt figure of £2100 provided 
by the credit reference agency. And, in the light of the information Vanquis already had 
about Mr I which gave it no cause for concern, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Vanquis to look into Mr Is borrowing history in further detail when considering a low credit 
limit of £250. So I think was reasonable and proportionate for Vanquis to proceed on the 
basis of the information it used. 
Vanquis says it had no reason to think that Mr I couldnt afford repayments of about £15 that 
would be due on a fully utilised limit of £250. In line with the CONC requirements Ive 
outlined, Ive also thought about whether Ive seen anything to suggest Vanquis shouldve 
foreseen any difficulty in repaying a balance of £250 over a reasonable period, and I havent 
seen anything to suggest this. Accordingly, taking account of everything Ive said, I think it 
was fair and reasonable of Vanquis to offer Mr I a credit limit of £250. 
I can see that Mr I missed payments on his credit card between June and August 2019, and 
that he advised in mid July 2019 that hed been unemployed. Other than this, from what I 
can see from information up to July 2020, he made payments as required on his account 
with Vanquis. On the basis of this information, I think its more likely than not that his missed 
payments at this time were due to a temporary difficulty. I note that the short term loans with X that Ive referred to, have been the subject of a 
separate complaint, resulting in redress to Mr I. However, this is a separate matter and the 
information I have seen doesnt disclose the reason for the redress. So, I cant fairly take 
account of this in considering this complaint. 
In the light of all of this, I dont think Vanquis acted unreasonably or unfairly in giving Mr I a 
credit card with a limit of £250.
Mr I feels that Vanquis didnt deal with the points he raised in his complaint, and that there 
were delays in responding to him. I think that Vanquis explained why it didnt uphold Mr Is 
complaint, and considered his further response, referring to the information that it had taken 
account of and explaining that it thought its approach was proportionate, and I am satisfied 
that this was a reasonable response. I note that Vanquis acknowledged a delay in 
responding to Mr Is email in early August, and apologised for this, which was fair and 
reasonable, and I dont think it needed to do any more.
 
In summary, I am not upholding Mr Is complaint. I know Mr I will be disappointed with this, 
but I hope he understands my reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman