DRN-3147187
The complaint
Mr W complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on his home insurance for damage to his garage roof after a storm.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr W made a claim under his home insurance policy. His garage roof had 
collapsed in; he thought this had happened due to heavy rainfall during a storm. 
RSA considered the claim under the storm section of Mr Ws policy, but it didnt agree to 
cover it. It said it felt the damage was more likely to have been caused by wear and tear. 
Mr W complained to RSA, he sent information showing hed had some work carried out on 
the roof in 2020, so he was unhappy RSA said the issue was wear and tear. 
RSA didnt agree to change its position so Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought RSA had acted fairly in refusing the claim. She didnt think weather 
reports supported a storm having taken place, so she said as there was no insured event, 
RSA didnt have to cover the claim. 
Mr W didnt accept that. He said the weather data relied on by our investigator isnt 100% 
accurate as it doesnt come from his property. He maintained there was a storm and if it 
hadnt been for the storm, his garage roof wouldnt have collapsed, so the claim should be 
met. 
As Mr W didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
Ive already told Mr W that I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably in declining the claim, 
but for slightly different reasons to that of our investigator. I said whilst some weather reports 
dont support there was a storm around the time of loss, I could see that RSA had accepted 
there were storm conditions. But I said even if there was a storm, Id have to be persuaded 
that the storm was the main cause of the damage, and I didnt think thats what the evidence 
showed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy does cover loss or damage caused by a storm, so on the face of it; damage 
caused by a storm is potentially covered.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been shown, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer to 
any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed under this section of the policy.
Mr Ws policy doesnt define storm. But as set out above, as RSA accepted there was a 
storm, Ive continued to review the next two questions we consider. 
The roof of Mr Ws garage collapsed in on itself. Even if I were to consider this damage 
consistent with storm damage, I dont think it can be said that the storm was the dominant 
cause of the damage. 
When RSA attended the property, it thought the roof had collapsed due to failing mortar, 
which had failed over time, causing the structure holding up the roof to be compromised. 
Mr W provided some information from his own contractors. Having reviewed those, I 
consider one supports RSAs position. A building company (who Ill refer to as L) said the 
garage had declined over time as the rain has corroded the concrete and rusted the steel 
supports inside. So Mr Ws own contractors assessment doesnt support that it was a one-
off storm event which caused the damage to the roof.
Mr W has said RSA only saw the roof after it collapsed, so it was the collapsing of the roof 
which pushed out the mortar, rather than it having declined over time. He also said L hadnt 
repaired the roof, that was another builder, who Ill refer to as N. He said N had seen the roof 
before its collapse (from previous building work) and had more experience than L. And hed 
had his roof maintained the previous year, so it couldnt be a maintenance issue.
Ive considered the comments of Mr W and N. Ns view was that as the roof is very flat with 
no slope at all, the water drains slowly, and so the weight of the water from the heavy 
rainfall, caused the roof to collapse. 
Whilst I accept that N had knowledge of the roof before its collapse, Im not satisfied, having 
reviewed all of the evidence, that RSA has acted unfairly in declining the claim. I accept the 
weight of heavy rainfall may have contributed to the collapse of the roof, but for a claim to 
succeed, the storm has to be the dominant cause of the damage. Just because the roof 
hadnt collapsed before the storm, doesnt mean the claim automatically succeeds. From the 
photographs Ive seen and the reports from RSA and L, Im more persuaded that the heavy 
rainfall just highlighted an already existing problem with the roof and the damage wasnt the 
result of a one-off storm event. Its unclear what maintenance Mr W had carried out, as 
understandably, he said he hasnt kept all of the information he had on this over the years. 
But on balance I find RSA hasnt acted unfairly in declining the claim.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, as the collapse of his roof has caused 
stress and financial worry, but Im not going to ask RSA to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman