DRN-2575775
The complaint
Mrs B complains, via her representative, about the handling and part payment by UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI) on her claim for her legal expenses under home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Bs home suffered a lot of damage from an escape of water in January 2017. Mrs Bs 
claim was declined by UKI and she complained to our service who required UKI to pay her 
building and contents losses. Mrs B said shes satisfied with the settlement of these claims. 
Mrs Bs policy also provided covered her for legal expenses. She asked UKI to instruct 
lawyers so she could dispute its decline of her claim, but, following legal advice UKI declined 
because of a conflict of interest and because it saw little prospect of success. 
But Mrs B said that the insurance regulations recognised that a conflict of interest isnt a 
good reason to deny cover. Mrs B instructed solicitors at her own expense. She thought she 
would have to bear the legal costs of whether legal expenses cover was provided under the 
policy. But she said she should be reimbursed for the claim dispute fees of £20,200, plus 
interest on the delayed payment, and she provided copies of her solicitors invoices. Mrs B 
said she should also be compensated for distress due to having to borrow money from 
family and friends, which caused her embarrassment and the way her claim was handled, 
with delayed payment.
UKI apologised for the poor service Mrs B received for its error when issuing a partial 
settlement cheque of £40,000 and the delays in reissuing the payment. It paid 8% interest on 
this sum from 19 December 2018 to 31 January 2019, with an additional seven days to allow 
for processing, making an interest payment of £350.69. And £50 compensation, in addition 
to compensation of £500 it had paid to Mrs B previously.
Mrs Bs representative said she didnt agree that UKI had addressed her concerns about her 
legal expenses, and said the compensation for the delayed payment on her claim wasnt 
enough. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be not upheld. He said UKIs payment to Mrs B 
for her claim didnt arrive in time, but its compensation for this was fair. Initially, he said there 
was no record of Mrs B making a claim for legal expenses and she should do so. He later 
said UKIs legal advisers thought there were negative prospects of success which would not 
allow for legal expenses cover to be granted. He said UKI had used its authority under the 
policy to decline the claim and this was fair.  
Mrs Bs representative disagreed, saying UKI hadnt addressed the basis of Mrs Bs 
complaint about legal cover, but hadnt said that no claim had been made. Mrs Bs 
representative has made no response to the investigators further view of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs complaint about UKIs decision to decline her claim has been dealt with previously 
by this service. As I understand it, the present complaint concerns Mrs Bs claim for the 
recovery of her legal expenses in challenging UKIs decline and subsequent handling of her 
claim. And the compensation UKI has paid for its delayed payment on her claim.
Mrs B said she was embarrassed and depressed at having to borrow from family and friends 
to instruct a solicitor when her legal expenses cover should have made this unnecessary. 
She wants UKI to reimburse her legal expenses incurred in the dispute with them about her 
building and contents claim and pay her compensation.
UKIs legal advisers told Mrs B, in their letter of 9 May 2018 that cover for her legal expenses 
in challenging UKIs decision to reject her claim wasnt available due to a conflict of interest 
and the lack of reasonable prospects of success. I have considered whether or not it was fair 
for UKI to decline Mrs Bs claim for these reasons. The policy has the following exclusions:
"We don't cover claims arising from or relating to;
- any dispute with us about this section of the policy other than as shown under 'How to 
complain'...
- loss or damage that is insured under another section of this policy
We can refuse to pay further costs if your claim no longer has reasonable prospects of 
success.
Reasonable prospects of success:
We and the appointed representative agree that there is a better than 50% chance that you 
will recover your losses or obtain any other legal remedy we agree to
Mrs Bs representative challenged the basis of UKIs rejection of her claim under the policy 
terms and said cover exists under the policy for the legal expenses Mrs B incurred. UKI 
responded to say it was reserving its rights under the entire policy and so no indemnity for 
legal costs or any other claimed losses could be provided to Mrs B under the policy. UKIs 
legal advisers said that on the basis of the evidence their assessment of the prospects of the 
claims success is that it would not be reasonable for them to grant cover.
UKI, in common with other insurers, has legal advisers to assess the prospect of success of 
claims. The assessment UKI received was in the negative and I think they were entitled to 
take this seriously and use it to reject Mrs Bs claim for her legal expenses. For UKI to 
reconsider its position a positive prospects of success assessment would have been 
required. Additionally, UKI had such serious concerns about the claim that it withheld liability 
and reserved its rights to avoid the policy. 
Insurers that offer cover for legal expenses generally apply a similar test when considering if 
a claim should be met and this concerns the chances of a claims success. If, following an 
assessment, the claim is deemed not to carry reasonable prospects of success, then wed 
expect the insurer to withdraw indemnity or refuse the claim at the outset and this is what 
UKI did.
Im satisfied that UKIs legal advisers explained its stance, on behalf of UKI, as to why the 
legal expenses claim couldnt be pursued and I think this was a reasonable decision to 
reach. I dont think that this services subsequent uphold of Mrs Bs complaint about her 
claim means that UKIs legal advisers assessment of the claims prospect of success in court 
was unreliable. I also think it was reasonable for UKIs legal advisers to cite the conflict of interest exclusion 
clause in Mrs Bs policy. This is intended to avoid the prospect of UKI providing legal 
expenses cover for legal action against itself. I think this situation is avoided by the policy 
term set out above. I havent found anything within the insurance regulations to prevent UKI 
limiting its liability in this way.
UKI accepts that its cheque payment was issued in error and failed to arrive within the 
agreed timescales. I think this was a genuine error. UKI has previously compensated Mrs B 
£500 in October 2018 for its poor service at that time. And it has since paid Mrs B further 
compensation of £50, totalling £550 together with interest. I think this is fair compensation in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman