DRN-3636387
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy about the service received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Mrs H has been represented in making this complaint by her husband Mr H. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs H 
herself.
What happened
In July 2020 Barclays sent a letter to Mrs H saying that she had a credit balance of £18.22 in 
an account she had previously held with it.
Mrs H asked Barclays to send her a cheque at the address on her letter. She also asked for 
confirmation that the amount she had previously owed had been cleared and that the 
account was closed. But Mrs H didnt receive the credit payment or the confirmation she had 
asked for. 
There followed an exchange of correspondence between Mrs H and Barclays which resulted 
in further concerns being raised. This included responses to her letters not being received or 
delayed, Barclays contacting a third-party to verify her address and adding an incorrect initial 
in her name when writing to her. Mrs H was also unhappy that Barclays letters are signed 
from Your Barclays Team. Ultimately, Mrs H raised a formal complaint with Barclays.
Barclays responded by issuing a final response letter to Mrs H. It confirmed the account was 
no longer open, and it offered £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused because of 
the issues she had raised. Unfortunately, this letter was not received by Mrs H. 
So, she referred her complaint to this service. And we asked Barclays to submit its complaint 
records  which it did, including a copy of its final response letter. Ultimately, Mrs H didnt 
accept Barclays offer of compensation as she didnt think it went far enough to put things 
right. And she said that a further complaint had been raised with Barclays as she had since 
received further correspondence about the account which had been closed. So, the 
complaint was passed to an investigator to look into.
In summary, the investigator agreed that what had happened had caused Mrs H distress and 
inconvenience. But overall, she thought Barclays offer to pay £150 compensation was fair. 
But she thought the new complaint Mrs H had raised about Barclays should form the basis of 
a new complaint.  
Mrs H didnt accept this outcome saying, in summary, that many questions she had raised 
had not been satisfactorily answered. She reiterated that she had not received Barclays final 
response to her first complaint and that her new complaint to Barclays was an extension of 
the original complaint. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
Having looked at the documentation provided, I asked the investigator to contact Barclays 
for further information which included  amongst other things, a request to include Mrs Hs 
subsequent complaint as part of this complaint. I also asked Barclays increase the 
compensation payment to £250.
    
Barclays agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £250. And, as it no longer held 
records to determine whether the outstanding credit payment had been paid or not, it offered 
to pay an additional sum of £18.22. The investigator put the new offer to Mrs H. But she 
didnt accept it saying she still wanted her complaint formally addressed by an ombudsman.
During the complaint process, Mrs H has also raised concerns about how this service has 
dealt with her complaint. Complaints about our service are dealt with separately and I 
understand one of our team managers has responded to these concerns. So, for clarity, this 
decision solely relates to Mrs Hs complaint about Barclays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint which I have only 
summarised above. But Id like to assure Mrs H that I have read and considered all the 
correspondence in full. And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will 
not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not 
necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to consider the circumstances as a 
whole. 
I note Mrs H has concerns about not receiving Barclays initial final response letter. But 
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the letter which is dated 14 December 2020 and 
addressed to the same address we hold for Mrs H on our records. So, while I accept Mrs H 
may not have received it, on balance, Im persuaded it was most likely sent. In any event, 
Mrs H was still able to refer her complaint to this service even though she hadnt received 
Barclays final response.     
Barclays has confirmed that Mrs Hs account with it is closed. Additionally, because the 
account is closed, it has said it can no longer determine if £18.22 was ever sent to Mrs H. 
So, it has now offered to pay her £18.22. Thats fair as it ensures Mrs H is paid what shes 
owed.
It has also explained that a third-party was contacted as it was involved in the recovery of 
the debt Mrs H originally had outstanding on her account. And the letter that was sent to   
Mrs H - which prompted a further complaint - related to changes to the type of account     
she had previously held with it. Barclays has apologised if the letter was unwarranted and 
has said Mrs H can disregard it. So, Im satisfied that Barclays has provided answers to 
these concerns.  
I appreciate Mrs H will still find these explanations to be unsatisfactory, and that she 
expected our service to find out more about how and why all the issues she has raised had 
happened. While I accept her strength of feeling, it would be disproportionate to investigate 
these matters further. Ultimately, its accepted by all parties that Barclays let Mrs H down 
and explanations about what had happened isnt going to change things going forward. The account is now closed, she will soon have what is owed to her, and so things have 
crystallised. Whats left for me to decide is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs H has been caused.  
Theres no formula for arriving at the correct amount of compensation. Whilst I understand 
the experience has been frustrating for Mrs H, it isnt the case that every instance of 
dissatisfaction should attract a further amount of compensation. Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of both complaints and the impact the issues raised had on her as she is the 
eligible complainant. 
Having done so, as mentioned above, I asked Barclays to increase the compensation 
payment to £250. Im satisfied this more fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience      
Mrs H had been caused when considering the circumstances of all the complaint points she 
has raised. And Barclays has agreed to pay this amount.
Putting things right
In recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should now pay Mrs Hr £250 plus £18.22 which represents the credit balance on her 
account.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
settle the complaint as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman