DRN-4282827
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed his bank account.  He also says 
that HSBC didnt treat him fairly when it asked him to repay his overdraft.
What happened
Mr H had an account with HSBC with an agreed overdraft of £1,000.
In February 2022, HSBC blocked and reviewed Mr Hs account. At the time of the block the 
account was £565 overdrawn. 
HSBC told Mr H that whilst his account was blocked, he could access his benefit and wages 
by going into a branch with identification, which Mr H did. HSBC also refunded Mr H £30 for 
a late payment charge he incurred due to the block preventing a direct debit being paid. 
Following its review, on 7 April 2022, HSBC decided to close Mr Hs account immediately 
and asked him to repay his overdraft within 7 days. HSBC wrote to Mr H again on 22 April 
2022 and told Mr H that if he wasnt able to repay his overdraft by 10 May 2022, his account 
would be passed to its collections and recoveries team. The letter also said that if he had 
trouble repaying the full amount, he could contact HSBC who would work with him to come 
up with a suitable arrangement, based on his income and expenditure. Mr H repaid his 
overdraft on 11 May 2022. He said he had to take out another loan to clear his overdraft and 
he was relying on his overdraft to clear his energy bill arrears.  
Mr H complained to HSBC. In response it said it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
reviewed and closed Mr Hs account. It also said based on the terms and conditions of Mr 
Hs account it was entitled to ask Mr H to repay his overdraft. 
Unhappy with this response Mr H brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Mr H said that HSBC hadnt treated him fairly 
when it blocked and closed his account. And said hed been forced to take on more debt to 
repay his overdraft which led to him becoming insolvent. He also said his mental health had 
suffered due to HSBCs actions. So, he wants HSBC to pay him compensation.
The investigator said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Mr Hs account. But 
she said HSBC should have given him 60 days notice instead of closing his account 
immediately. She also said that there were delays in HSBC completing its review of the 
account. So, she said HSBC should pay Mr H £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
this had caused him. 
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Mr H didnt think the compensation went far 
enough. He said he hadnt done anything that would have led the bank to close his account. 
He wants HSBC to pay him more compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said the following:
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. But I want to 
assure Mr H that I have considered everything that he and HSBC have submitted as part of 
this complaint. 
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that HSBC has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
HSBC may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account made things quite difficult for 
Mr H.  Hes said he had to rearrange his direct debits and was relying on using his overdraft 
to clear his gas and electricity arrears. So, I can understand why he found this experience 
with HSBC stressful and upsetting. But as Ive explained, banks have a legal obligation to 
comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied 
that HSBC was complying with its obligations when it blocked Mr Hs account. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Mr H inconvenience, I cant say HSBC treated him unfairly when it 
blocked his account. Ive also kept in mind that Mr H was able to access his benefits 
payment in March 2022, by visiting a branch.  
Mr Hs account remained blocked until it was closed on 7 April 2022. But I dont consider that 
it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or 
specific timeframe. Because HSBC was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did 
in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Ive looked at the timeline and can see that HSBC didnt cause any unnecessary delays and 
were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. I appreciate that HSBCs actions 
caused Mr H real inconvenience. But it wouldnt, however, be appropriate to make an award 
for compensation for that, since I dont believe that HSBC acted inappropriately in taking the 
actions that it did.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Hs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr H decided to stop banking with HSBC, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Hs 
account. The terms explain that the bank can close the account immediately and by 
providing two months notice. In this case HSBC closed Mr Hs account without notice. In my 
view that was reasonable given the banks concerns about how Mr H was operating his 
account. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. And Im satisfied that 
it did so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. So, Im not persuaded HSBC 
treated Mr H unfairly when they closed his account immediately.
When HSBC closed Mr Hs account the account was overdrawn by £565. Mr H says HSBC 
treated him unfairly by asking him to repay his overdraft immediately and has said that he 
had to take on other debt to repay it. Hes also said that having to do so put him in financial 
difficulties with his energy bills as he was hoping to use his overdraft to clear his arrears.An overdraft is a debt, but it doesnt operate in the same way as a loan or credit card for 
example, it doesnt require regular fixed or minimum payments. Mr Hs overdraft was, as is 
common, repayable on demand. That is, the bank was entitled to ask Mr H to repay it at any 
time, simply by giving notice to him. At the point HSBC closed Mr Hs account he was 
overdrawn, and he owed money hed borrowed from the bank. When the account was 
closed the debt became due. Mr H was given 7 days to repay it. I can appreciate receiving 
the letter would no doubt have caused Mr H upset and worry. But HSBC followed this up 
with another letter on 22 April 2022 which told him that if he owed money, hed need to get in 
touch to repay what he owed by 10 May 2022. HSBC also said that if Mr H couldnt repay 
the money, it would try and come to an arrangement with him, but hed need to complete an 
income and expenditure form. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H reached out to HSBC 
or told them that he was in financial difficulty. Im satisfied HSBC took appropriate steps to 
help Mr H and did what Id expect them to do. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my provisional 
decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say HSBC has acted 
unreasonably and treated Mr H unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. And asked 
him to repay his overdraft. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything, and I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. 
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. Mr H didnt. In summary he said:
He had completed and income and expenditure form with HSBC
He told HSBC that he was in financial difficulties
HSBC told him that a repayment plan wouldnt affect his credit score but then told 
him that it would
HSBC said it sent him a two months closure notice when it hadnt done so
Prior to issuing my decision I asked the investigator to get some more information from 
HSBC based on Mr Hs responses to my provisional decision. In particular I asked whether it 
had gone through an income and expenditure exercise with Mr H and was aware he was in 
financial difficulties. HSBC responded and said:
It had no record of Mr H completing an income and expenditure form with the bank or 
any discussions with Mr H about him being in financial difficulty or a payment plan
A payment plan wasnt set up
There was no indication of Mr H being in financial difficulty as there were credits in 
and out of his account sometimes larger than it would expect from a student account, 
it had a turnover of £59,000 since it had been opened, and the account was 
managed within the £1,000 overdraft limit
It sent a closure letter to Mr H on 7 April 2022, a final demand letter was then sent on 
22 April 2022, and Mr H made a payment on 11 May 2022 to clear the balance on 
the account
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In response to the provisional decision, Mr H has highlighted a number of concerns, which Ill 
now address below.
Mr H says he repeatedly told HSBC that he was in financial difficulty and that he went 
through the banks income and expenditure process which included completing a form. He 
says HSBC is being deceitful in not providing the evidence to back up what he says 
happened  in other words HSBC is lying and misleading this service.  This is a serious 
allegation. Ive asked HSBC about this, and it says it has no record of Mr H telling them he 
was in financial difficulties or completing an income and expenditure form. I would expect it 
to set out for our service the full details of all of its interactions with Mr H when asked to do 
so. Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest it hasnt done so. So, I dont think, as 
Mr H seemed to fear, that there is anyone within HSBC who is deliberately misleading or 
withholding information from this service. With this in mind, Ive not seen any evidence that 
Mr H did complete an income and expenditure form, told HSBC that he was in financial 
difficulties; wanted to in set up a payment plan; or was told that if he did this wouldnt impact 
his credit file. 
When the account was closed the debt became due. HSBC sent Mr H a letter on 7 April 
2022 in which he was given 7 days to repay it. HSBC followed this up with a final demand 
letter  on 22 April 2022 which told him that hed need to get in touch to repay what he owed 
by 10 May 2022. This is in line with the account terms and conditions, which state HSBC can 
ask for immediate repayment of an overdraft at any time. So, I cant HSBC treated Mr H 
unfairly when it asked him to repay the money, he owed the bank.
I note that the final demand letter dated 22 April 2022 stated that the bank had previously 
sent Mr H a letter giving him two months notice that it intended to close his account. Mr H 
says this didnt happen. Our investigator asked HSBC about this. It clarified that the final 
demand letter it sent to Mr H was a template that the bank used. And it confirmed that it 
closed Mr Hs account immediately, which Ive already said wasnt unreasonable. Therefore, 
even though HSBC made an error in sending a templated letter, which contained incorrect 
information, I cant see Mr H suffered any detriment. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything to resolve this aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this 
complaint should not be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are 
repeated above and form part of this decision. Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
cant say HSBC has acted unreasonably and treated Mr H unfairly when it blocked and 
closed his account. And asked him to repay his overdraft. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything, and I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman