DRN-4211513
The complaint
Mr B complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd (SWM) deposited his pension 
funds into the wrong bank account. 
What happened
Mr B met with an adviser from SWM in July 2022 with a view to making a net withdrawal of 
£100,000 from his personal pension plan. A pension access report was drawn up by the 
SWM adviser in August 2022, advising Mr B against withdrawing funds from the plan. 
Mr B decided to go ahead with the withdrawal. In mid-September 2022, he emailed SWM 
and asked it to accept his instruction to complete the withdrawal and provided details of a 
bank account in his sole name.  
In early October 2022 Mr Bs pension provider, who Ill refer to as Company A, made a gross 
pension payment of £154,475, of which £57,438.31 was paid directly to HMRC. The 
remaining £97,036.69 was paid directly into the bank account listed by Company A as Mr Bs 
account  a joint account held by Mr B and his former wife.
The following day, Mr B contacted SWM to let it know he hadnt received the payment into 
his sole account and confirmed the bank details he had provided in mid-September 2023. 
After looking into the matter, SWM discovered it had not passed on Mr Bs sole bank 
account details to Company A, and so the money hadnt been paid to the account requested 
by Mr B in September 2022. 
SWM approached Company A and asked if the payment could be returned by the receiving 
bank, but this couldnt be done. Although Mr B told SWM that the account was frozen, that 
was not the case. The account was active. This meant any transfer from the account had to 
be approved by both account holders and this approval was not forthcoming.  
Mr B was unhappy that the funds hadnt been paid into his sole account and complained to 
SWM. 
SWM responded and acknowledged that it didnt change Mr Bs bank account details with 
Company A until after Company A had made the payment into the joint bank account. It said 
its usual service standards werent met on that occasion. SWM confirmed it contacted 
Company A to try and clawback the payment, but Company A werent able to retrieve the 
funds, as this would need to be signed off by both joint account holders. SWM apologised to 
Mr B and offered £250 compensation. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. He told us that he was 
relying on the withdrawal from his pension funds, as this was his only source of income. He 
told this Service that not being able to access the money had a significant impact on his daily 
life. He asked for the funds to be paid to him and for compensation for the stress and upset 
caused by SWMs error. 
Our Investigator said he thought SWM had made an error when it didnt pass Mr Bs sole 
bank account details to Company A, and as a result of this error the money was paid into the 
wrong account. 
When looking at how to put things right, our Investigator said that as the funds had already 
been paid into an account in Mr Bs name, SWM did not have to pay the funds for a second 
time. However, he thought SWM should assist Mr B in recovering the funds from the joint 
account and should cover the cost of any legal fees incurred by Mr B in the recovery of those 
funds. Our Investigator also said, given Mr Bs circumstances, that if the funds were 
considered as part of the division of property in divorce proceedings, then SWM would not 
be liable for any costs relating to the division of assets. He also thought SWMs offer of £250 
compensation was fair. 
Neither party agreed with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2023. I said I intended to partially uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and tell SWM to pay him compensation totalling £750. I also said I didnt intend to 
ask SWM to take any further action in relation to Mr B getting access to the pension funds in 
the joint bank account. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr B responded and said he thought the provisional decision was factually inaccurate, 
although he wasnt specific about what the inaccuracies were. Mr B also asked for more 
information about Company A, which was sent to him. 
SWM responded and agreed to make the further compensation payment to Mr B. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear what Im looking at here. Mr B has mentioned to our Investigator that he 
wants SWM to continue acting for him and to process requests made by him regarding a 
regular monthly drawdown from his pension. For its part, SWM has said it disengaged Mr B 
as a client at the start of 2023. This is not the issue I am looking at here. If Mr B wants to 
pursue this matter, he will first of all need to formally complain to SWM. If he is unhappy with 
its response, then its at that stage he can bring this matter to this Service. 
My decision will deal with Mr Bs complaint about the single payment from his personal 
pension plan of £97,036.69 that was transferred to his joint bank account rather than to his 
sole bank account. 
The payment into Mr Bs joint bank account was made by Company A and not by SWM. 
SWMs role was limited to advising Mr B about the withdrawal and then providing 
Company A with any necessary documentation and instructions to carry out the transaction. 
I can see that Mr B sent an email to SWM in September 2022 and he asked it to carry out 
his instructions and provided it with his sole bank account details. Regardless of the 
correspondence that then followed between Mr B and SWM  Mr B was somewhat reluctant 
to sign a declaration that SWM asked him to sign  I think SWM had a responsibility to pass 
the new bank account details onto Company A. So I think its fair to say that the payment 
was incorrectly made into the joint bank account as a result of an error made by SWM. I know that Mr B would like SWM to now pay the full amount into his sole bank account, as 
he said he doesnt have access to the money in the joint account. But I dont intend to ask 
SWM to do that. This is because although the money was paid into an account that Mr B 
didnt want it to go into, Mr B is one of two account holders on the joint account and so the 
money has, in fact, been paid to him. Its the case that access is limited until, I believe, Mr B 
and his wife deal with the division of assets following their divorce, or until each of them 
agree that they can both have access to the account. But, as I said, the money has been 
paid to Mr B, albeit into an account of his that he didnt want it paid into.  
From what I can see, SWM quickly looked at trying to have the money returned so that it 
could be redeposited into Mr Bs sole account. It approached Company A, who in turn 
approached the relevant bank. I believe the payment couldnt be clawed back as the account 
was open and active, and had no restrictions placed on it by the bank. So its my 
understanding that the money didnt need to be clawed back by the bank, it just needed the 
authority of both account holders for a transfer to be made. What this means is that Im not 
asking SWM to do anything else to try to get the relevant bank to return the money to 
Company A, as it seems to have already done all that it can in this respect. 
Ive then looked at whether, as suggested by our Investigator, SWM should assist Mr B in 
recovering the funds from the joint account and should cover the cost of any legal fees 
incurred by Mr B in the recovery of those funds. But I dont think it would be fair to ask SWM 
to fund any legal costs. Ill explain why I say this. 
As I said, the money has been paid into an account held by Mr B. The issue here is that he 
cant withdraw the money unless both he and the other account holder authorise the 
withdrawal. Its my understanding that each of the joint account holders are refusing to 
authorise withdrawals for the other, and this is the reason why Mr B  as well as the other 
joint account holder  do not have access to funds in that particular account at this point in 
time. 
From what I can see, access to the account will either be gained by both parties making the 
decision to authorise one anothers transactions, or the matter will in time be dealt with when 
the courts, or another appropriate body, formally deal with the division of assets following the 
divorce. Given this, I dont think it would be possible to take legal action to deal in isolation 
with the question of just allowing Mr B to have access to the account. I also think this dispute 
between the joint account holders is not a matter that SWM can fairly be asked to get 
involved in. So I am not asking SWM to take any further action in relation to assisting Mr B to 
gain access to the pension funds that are now in the joint bank account. 
Ive then considered whether the amount of £250 compensation already offered by SWM is 
fair, and I dont think it is.  
I can see that Mr B intended to use the pension funds as income, so he said hes been 
caused a great deal of inconvenience by not being able to access the funds. He said its had 
a significant negative impact on day to day life. I want to assure Mr B that Ive taken 
everything hes said about the distress and inconvenience hes experienced into 
consideration, and I think a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in these 
circumstances is £750, as suggested in my provisional decision. 
I know that Mr B said he intended to use the pension funds to pay off significant legal fees 
and credit card debts. And as a result of not having access to the money, hes left paying, for 
instance, significant interest charges on his credit card. I appreciate that Mr B had 
earmarked the money for paying off some debts, and while its certainly fair to say that SWM 
are responsible for the money being paid into the wrong account, it is not responsible for the 
ongoing difficulties both account holders have with accessing the funds in the account. I believe there are further steps Mr B could take to release the funds in the joint account more 
quickly. So I will not be asking SWM to take any further action in relation to the outstanding 
debts that Mr B said hes unable to pay, but had intended to use the money to pay, at this 
point in time. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I am not asking SWM to pay the withdrawn 
pension funds into his sole account, or to take further action to recover the funds. But I am 
asking it to pay a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error has 
caused Mr B. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Succession Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman