DRN-4318417
The complaint
Mr B complains Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has lost funds belonging to him and hes 
unhappy with how it handled a claim to trace his accounts.
What happened
Mr B contacted Barclays in August 2022, when he came across correspondence relating to 
two savings accounts. The accounts had been opened with another provider a number of 
years ago. That provider later transferred its savings business to Barclays. I will refer to 
these accounts later on as accounts 1 and 2. 
Mr Bs correspondence showed there was £487,000 between two accounts at different 
points. He wanted to reclaim the funds and accumulated interest. 
Initially, when Mr B called Barclays, it said it couldnt instigate a claim over the phone to 
trace the accounts. It suggested he visit a branch to start the process. Mr B didnt think this 
was helpful, but he did as he was told. Barclays sent a number of letters, but Mr B says there 
was no meaningful update. He says his claim was passed between different people with no 
explanation. 
In October 2022 Barclays tracing team sent a letter. It said it hadnt been able to identify any 
funds to be reclaimed and that based on its records, it believed the accounts had been 
closed more than six years ago.
Mr B felt the response lacked a meaningful and proper explanation and so he approached 
Barclays again, escalating the matter as a compliant. Barclays issued a final response in 
June 2023. In summary, its letter reiterated what the tracing team had said. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened but she didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She reviewed information from Barclays and felt this supported the  
accounts had been closed in 2010 and 2013, so there werent any balances to be repaid.
Mr B didnt accept the conclusions. He said the investigator had referenced closure dates 
but in neither of the responses from Barclays had it shared these details. He asked to see 
the information the investigator had relied on so he could review it. 
He believed Barclays had been negligent in handling the claim. It had taken too long, passed 
the claim around unnecessarily and assigned it to someone incorrectly.  Mr B felt this had 
significantly impacted on his physical and mental health. He asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
Before passing the case forward for decision, the investigator shared the information shed 
received from Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anymore. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed, so Id like to explain why. 
Ive reviewed evidence from Barclays relating to the two accounts Mr B held. Mr B has also 
been sent this information. Im satisfied that this shows the accounts were closed.  
Account 1
Barclays records correspond with the account number Mr B has provided for this account. 
So, Im satisfied the records relate to the account in question. These show that on 18 
September 2009, £271,752 was transferred out of account 1 into account 2, which had been 
opened on the same day. Notes against the entry say, 
Customer wishes to close account due to rateOpened new growth saver for £271.752.
The entry also captures the account details for account 1 and from which the balance is to 
be removed and provides a new account number for the second account (where the funds 
were to go). 
Account 2
The number for account 2 corresponds with the details Mr B has provided. So, Im again 
satisfied the records for account 2 relate to the account in question. The records here show 
the account was opened on 18 September 2009, supported by the evidence above. The 
screen shots also show account activity, including withdrawals and transfers out. I can see 
funds were withdrawn over a period of time, following which the account was closed on 8 
September 2010. 
Usually, businesses struggle to provide information where accounts were closed so many 
years ago. But occasionally some information may still be available. Here, Im persuaded 
Barclays records are an accurate reflection of what happened with Mr Bs two accounts, and 
they support the position that there arent any funds or associated interest to be reclaimed. 
Ive had regard for the correspondence Mr B has provided for his two accounts, but these 
are only snapshot of the accounts at a certain point and not a fuller picture of what happened 
to the funds. 
Finally, I can see that our investigator felt some aspects of Mr Bs complaint werent within 
our jurisdiction. Specifically, some points made relating to complaint handling. But I dont 
think the position is necessarily as clear cut. I can see why it would have been helpful if 
Barclays had shared earlier some of the details that were included in the investigators 
opinion, to help Mr B understand what had happened. But having said that, I dont think it 
materially effects the outcome of the complaint. Because, by October 2022 Barclays had 
communicated there werent any funds to be reclaimed and the position on this isnt any 
different.  So, for the reasons I have given, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anymore to 
resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman