DRN-3289029
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unreasonably delayed 
its Business Current Account (BCA) application. 
The complaint has been brought to the service by Ss director, Mr S.
What happened
In June 2020, S applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with HSBC, who it didnt currently 
bank with. HSBC required applicants to have a business relationship before they could apply 
for a BBL, so S applied to the bank for a BCA. 
There was a delay in processing Ss application, and due to the amount of time that had 
passed without any action by the bank, the application lapsed. HSBC needed to put Ss 
application through again, and this was actioned in early September. 
Initial checks were completed on the rekeyed application and in December, the bank 
reviewed the application again, but identified that further checks were needed. The checks 
were completed in January 2021, but Ss application wasnt progressed by the bank again, 
and in March 2021 the application was cancelled.
S was unhappy with the time taken to open the BCA. It said it had staff it needed to pay, and 
it wanted to apply for a BBL and couldnt do this without the account.   
HSBC upheld the complaint. The bank apologised for the delay in processing Ss 
application. It said this was due to the high volume of applications it had received and 
offered £50 compensation. However, HSBC said the application was still undergoing internal 
checks and it couldnt give a timescale on when these would be completed. S remained 
unhappy and asked this service to look into its complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said there were multiple 
occasions where the bank hadnt progressed Ss application for several months  without 
any valid reason. She also didnt think it was fair that S hadnt been able to apply for a BBL. 
So she asked HSBC to process a new BCA application, then review Ss BBL application and 
pay £200 compensation.
HSBC didnt accept our investigators view. The bank provided an online link for a new BCA 
application and agreed to the compensation, but it said it couldnt offer S a BBL as it already 
had one with another lender - and another wasnt permitted under the BBL scheme rules.
S didnt accept our investigators view either. Mr S didnt think the compensation was enough 
for the inconvenience caused. So he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and 
the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had 
some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. And while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying under 
the Scheme had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. When 
applying for a new account, a potential borrower would then be subject to the lenders usual 
account opening process.
So I need to see if HSBC processed Ss account opening application fairly, and in this case, 
I dont think it did. The bank has told us that as one of the only lenders offering BBLs to new 
customers, it was extremely busy and wasnt able to process applications as quickly as it 
would have liked. And I think thats a reasonable explanation for the initial delay in 
processing Ss application. 
However, Ive seen that from the end of June to August and early September to December 
Ss application didnt progress  causing the first application to lapse. Looking at the 
application S submitted, I can see there were some discrepancies with the information 
provided which meant further checks were needed  which I think was reasonable. However, 
once those checks had been completed, HSBC recorded that it was satisfied with the 
checks, but didnt progress the application as it should have.  
I dont think this was fair and I think the banks actions caused S inconvenience. I also dont 
agree with HSBCs explanation for the delay in reviewing the rekeyed application. The bank 
said that it had a significant amount of applications which again delayed processing Ss 
application. But as Ss original application had already lapsed due to the banks actions, I 
think the bank should have treated the second application as a priority. And I think it was 
unfair of HSBC to then allow Ss second application to be cancelled again due the banks 
inactivity a couple of months later  particularly as the checks had been completed and I 
havent seen any evidence the bank had any concerns. 
I can see HSBC has provided S with a link to submit a new BCA. S has confirmed it would 
still like the BCA with the bank once the outcome of this complaint has been decided. So I 
think it would be reasonable for HSBC to process this application as a priority given the 
inconvenience caused by the banks actions. For ease, I have attached the link again if Mr S 
has not yet made the new BCA application: https://www.business.hsbc.uk/en-gb/everyday-
banking/business-accounts?DCSext.nav=foot-mat
When S brought its complaint to this service, it said it still wanted a BBL from HSBC. 
However since then, S has confirmed it has received a BBL from another lender. The 
Scheme rules say that a borrower is only allowed one BBL, so its reasonable that HSBC 
has said it is unable to provide S with a further BBL. And Im glad to hear that S was able to 
get a BBL facility elsewhere and limit the impact of the account opening delay it experienced. 
Mr S has told us S lost business because it couldnt open the BCA when it needed to and 
wasnt able to receive payments for contracts. He also said S lost a potential employee as it 
wasnt able to pay them through a business account. I dont think its reasonable to say S 
lost business because of the delay as it has been incorporated since 2013  so either S or 
Mr S would have needed to have an account elsewhere to trade from this date. As S and 
Mr S werent existing customers of HSBC, I think its reasonable to believe S could have 
used the existing account until the new one was opened as it would have previously needed 
to pay any existing staff this way. I also acknowledge Mr S has told us about the distress this has caused and impact on his 
health. However, I can only award compensation to complainant  which in this case is S. As 
a limited company, S cant be caused distress, however I can look at the inconvenience 
caused by HSBCs actions. 
From what Mr S has told us, the main impact was that S wanted a specific business account 
with the bank  rather than the account it was currently using  to use for his seasonal 
contracts. Hes also told us hes spent time chasing HSBC for updates on Ss application for 
over a year and also had to bring a complaint to this service. So I think S was caused 
inconvenience by HSBCs actions. 
I recognise Mr S feels the compensation suggested by the investigator isnt enough for the 
inconvenience. However, from the information hes provided I cant see there was a 
significant impact on Mr Ss time as a director - or that he wasnt able to mitigate the impact 
on S using alternative options. So I think £200 is a reasonable amount for the impact of the 
banks actions on S, and I wont be asking the bank to increase this.  
Mr S also said S had been impacted as it hadnt been able to apply for a BBL, however hes 
confirmed that S was able to get a BBL from another lender. So I dont think S was 
disadvantaged by the banks actions as the BBL terms were set by the Scheme and were 
the same regardless of which lender was providing it.
So for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think HSBC processed Ss BCA application in 
a reasonable way. Its clear the banks handling of the application caused S inconvenience, 
so to put things right I think HSBC should process Ss new BCA application as a priority  if it 
hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Process Ss BCA application as a priority once it has been received; and
Pay S £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman