DRN-4464425
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs Z complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money they lost 
when they fell victim to an investment scam.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In early 2021, Mrs Z was looking to invest. She spoke to an individual on a chat room app 
who she believed to be the vice-president of a big investment firm based abroad. As the app 
is audio-based, she says she checked his voice against his other social media profiles and 
found that it matched. 
The individual guided Mrs Z to start investing in cryptocurrency through a particular platform. 
The name and website changed several times, which Mrs Z was told was due to 
improvements and updates as the customer base increased. She started with smaller 
investments and, when these performed well, invested more to get better returns. 
Mrs Z started sending money to the scam platform via her sole account with HSBC. We are 
considering a complaint about the payments made from that account separately. After a few 
months, she also started sending payments via the joint account she and Mr D held with 
HSBC. 
In June 2021 and November 2021, she sent funds from the joint account to a cryptocurrency 
wallet she had set up  in order to purchase cryptocurrency to send on to the scam platform. 
Then in February 2022, she purchased cryptocurrency from a peer-to-peer market. She sent 
payments from the joint account to an individual seller, who then loaded the cryptocurrency 
she had purchased to her wallet. From there, she sent the funds on to the platform. In total, 
she sent around £320,000 from the joint account.
Unfortunately, although the investment firm was real, it seems the individual who claimed to 
be their vice president was a fraudster. Mr D and Mrs Zs funds werent actually being 
invested. She had been able to make some withdrawals initially. But when she showed the 
investment platform to her son, he expressed concerns. That prompted her to attempt a 
significant withdrawal (for £250,000). She was asked for a 20% withdrawal fee and her 
account was frozen. This made her realise it was a scam.
Supported by a professional representative, Mr D and Mrs Z complained to HSBC. They said 
it should have done more to protect them  and if it had, the scam would have been 
uncovered. HSBC denied it had made an error and so didnt agree to refund Mr D and 
Mrs Z. They then referred their complaint to our service (via the professional representative). 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found HSBC had questioned Mr D and 
Mrs Z about the payments towards the end of the scam, and they gave false explanations 
about what they were for. And the sophisticated nature of the scam meant he wasnt 
persuaded they would have realised it was fraudulent if they had looked into the company 
further  noting they also had significant investment experience. Overall, while he thought 
HSBC could have done more to protect Mr D and Mrs Z, he wasnt persuaded this was likely 
to have succeeded in uncovering the scam.  
Mr D and Mrs Z has appealed the investigators outcome. In summary, they say:
The cover stories they gave were absurd and poorly thought out. 
Effective intervention would have uncovered the scam. HSBC should have invoked 
Banking Protocol, put controls in the account, or at least given them robust education 
about cryptocurrency scams. If it had, they would have spoken to their son  who 
would have advised he thought it was a scam, as he did when they spoke to him 
about the investment later on. They would have tried to make a withdrawal and would 
have realised they were being scammed when this didnt succeed. 
There was alarming information online about the alleged trading platform.
They wanted the ombudsman to consider the intervention calls from HSBC, as these 
show there were red flags that were missed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Although tricked by a scam, its agreed Mr D and Mrs Z authorised the disputed payments. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, HSBC has a duty to act on authorised 
payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that Mr D and Mrs Z are 
liable for these payments as they authorised them.
However, our service does expect banks to have systems in place to monitor for 
uncharacteristic transactions or other signs its customers are at risk from fraud (amongst 
other things). In some circumstances, when an identifiable fraud risk is present, it may be 
appropriate to take additional steps before processing a payment. 
Our services approach to this is well-established, as both HSBC and Mr D and Mrs Zs 
representative will be aware. And it has been formed by a range of factors, including:
Firms obligations regarding fraud risks as set out in Banking Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (BCOBS). Such as BCOBS Rule 5.1.10A requiring firms allowing 
electronic payments (such as HSBC) to:
consider the risk of fraud and put in place appropriate procedures and 
technical safeguards to ensure that such payments can be carried out in a 
safe and secure manner. 
And BCOBS Guidance 5.10.B, which goes on to explain: 
Such procedures should include authentication procedures for the 
verification of the identity of the banking customer or the validity of the use of 
a particular payment instrument, proportionate to the risks involved. The recommendations from the Banking Standards Institution (BSI) code about how 
firms can recognise when its customers might be at risk from fraud, and how to 
protect them.
The Banking Protocol, which is an initiative between banks and the police, to help 
banks identify common authorised push payment scams  specifically when its 
customer is making such a payment in branch. In some circumstances when the 
bank thinks its customer is falling victim to a scam, they can call the police. 
Please note this isnt an exhaustive list of the factors which have helped form our approach. 
But the examples Ive given are intended to offer some insight into when we think banks 
should have fraud concerns, and what it might be proportionate to do in response. 
In line with our approach, Ive considered Mr D and Mrs Zs account activity and their contact 
with HSBC during the scam  to see if HSBC did (or ought to have had) concerns. And, if so, 
whether it responded proportionately. If I find it failed in this regard, Ill go on to consider 
whether this had a material impact on Mr D and Mrs Zs loss. 
In the run up to the scam payments, Mr D and Mrs Z were using their account to make high-
value payments. But I do think there was a notable change in the operation of the account 
due to the scam. They sent funds to Mrs Zs cryptocurrency wallet, for sums ranging from 
£10,000 to £25,000, on consecutive days. That level of spending looked unusual for them. 
Yet they werent questioned about any of these payments  or about the two further 
payments they made to the cryptocurrency wallet in November 2021.  
Given the change in account activity, I do think HSBC should have completed further checks 
on some of these payments  such as speaking to Mr D or Mrs Z to find out more about the 
circumstances in which they were being made. However, Im not persuaded appropriate 
intervention was likely to have uncovered the scam. 
Thats because of what we know about how Mr D and Mrs Z responded when asked later 
about the scam payments made from this account in February 2022  as well as how Mrs Z 
responded when questioned in relation to payments made from her sole account.
In February 2022, having not made any more scam payments since November 2021, Mr D 
and Mrs Z started making payments to an individual. They have explained they were buying 
cryptocurrency from him via a peer-to-peer market. The cryptocurrency they bought was 
loaded to Mrs Zs wallet then sent on to the scam.
Some of these payments were blocked for fraud checks. Ive listened to the calls between 
Mr D and Mrs Z and the bank about these payments. One was made from branch  
seemingly due to concerns over the language barrier when speaking to HSBC on the phone. 
When Mr D and Mrs Z were asked what the payments were for, they said they were for an 
investment by Mr D. They said no one had told them how to answer the banks questions, or 
to mislead it. HSBC explained if they had, that would be a strong indication they were being 
scammed.
Mrs Z also told HSBC they had known the individual they were saying for a few months and 
had been doing business with him for some time, having been introduced to him by a friend. 
When asked about the level of returns the individual was offering, Mrs Z said the returns 
were reasonable and werent too high. HSBC advised them on how to check the investment, 
such as checking reviews and getting advice. Mrs Z said she had done that and was 
satisfied. I think the nature of Mr D and Mrs Zs customer relationship is relevant here. They held 
substantial investments with HSBC, were high-net-worth customers, and were in the UK on 
the basis of a visa requiring them to make substantial investments. In that context, I would 
consider it reasonable for HSBC to rely on their insistence they were satisfied with the 
investment. I dont think it had cause to refuse the payments or invoke Banking Protocol. 
It's also clear there are aspects of what Mr D and Mrs Z told HSBC that werent true. There 
is no record of them dealing with the individual prior to February 2022, despite their assertion 
they had known him a few months and had been introduced by a friend. Weve also seen 
contact records between Mrs Z and the scammers showing they coached her on what to tell 
the bank about the payments  as HSBC warned her was a likely scam indicator. Yet they 
persisted in giving cover stories for the payments. 
Mr D and Mrs Z also didnt make it clear the investment related to cryptocurrency, instead 
referring to stock market investments. Nor would the link have been apparent to the bank at 
the time, given the payments were going to an individual account. Please note the payments 
are not covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code, as they were genuine purchases; the fraudulent loss only occurred when the funds 
were sent on from Mrs Zs cryptocurrency wallet. The earlier payments also arent covered 
as the code doesnt cover me-to-me payments.
When questioned in relation to scam payments from her sole account (which is being 
considered as a separate case but has relevance to my judgment here over whether 
better/earlier intervention would have succeeded), Mrs Z also gave various cover stories 
about what the payments were for. Such as claiming payments were for furniture. 
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC can fairly be held at fault for not preventing the scam. It 
seems Mr D and Mrs Z were adamant about making these payment  and were unwilling to 
disclose the true nature of what they were doing. So Im not persuaded they would have 
responded in a way that made it obvious they were falling victim to a scam in response to 
earlier, or more thorough, questioning. 
I appreciate that, had HSBC intervened earlier, it may have been more obvious that the 
payments Mr D and Mrs Z were making were linked to cryptocurrency. However, I still dont 
think its likely they would have revealed the full extent of what they were doing such that it 
would have been obvious they were being scammed. And I dont think its likely they would 
have been dissuaded from proceeding in response to warnings about the nature of 
cryptocurrency scams. 
The scam didnt meet some of the more common features, such as use of remote access 
software. While Mrs Z came across the opportunity via social media, she has told us she 
took further steps to corroborate the individual  such as comparing with other social media 
profiles dating back over eight years. So I dont think she would have been concerned by a 
warning about scammers using social media to contact victims  bearing in mind the lengths 
she had gone to in order to verify who she was dealing with.
Mr D and Mrs Zs representative has provided links to a website identifying concerns with 
some of the platform names used by the scammers. It suggests they would have found 
these if prompted to do further research into the company. But Mrs Z was advised over the 
phone about how to look into the company and she confirmed she was happy they were 
legitimate. In any event, my research suggests these websites werent easily findable when 
searching for the platform name(s) at the time. There has also been a suggestion that, if concerns had been raised, Mr D and Mrs Z would 
have tried to make a withdrawal  and this would have uncovered the scam. But Mrs Z has 
also told us she was able to make some direct withdrawals from the scam platform(s). Her 
cryptocurrency wallet activity suggests the withdrawals came to a significant amount. So Im 
not persuaded by this argument  as it appears she was able to make withdrawals initially. 
Furthermore, this suggestion appears to be based on the large withdrawal Mrs Z tried to 
make after her son raised concerns, which set her on the path to discovering the scam. But 
the key difference here is that Mrs Z and Mr D showed their son the trading platform they 
were using. Whereas they werent being upfront with HSBC about what they were doing  
meaning HSBC wasnt able to properly assess, and warn them of, the risks. 
While Mr D and Mrs Zs representative has pointed out the trading platforms werent 
regulated, as it will know, that isnt a requirement for cryptocurrency. So that in itself was 
unlikely to have caused them, or HSBC, concern. 
The funds paid were sent on to the scam via Mrs Zs cryptocurrency wallet(s). Given the 
payment steps involved, HSBC couldnt have recovered the funds once the scam was 
reported as they had already been moved on. 
Overall, Im mindful Mr D and Mrs Z have lost significant amounts to a very sophisticated 
scam. But in all the circumstances, Im not persuade its fair to hold HSBC liable for their 
loss. Mr D and Mrs Zs determination to make the payments, investment experience and the 
explanations they gave for the payments mean Im not convinced HSBC ought to have been 
able to uncover the scam and prevent their fraudulent losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman