DRN-3118908
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that after taking out an insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited 
the discount applied to the policy for having a no claims discount (NCD) was removed and 
Aviva requested an additional premium.
As Mrs M refused to pay the additional premium Aviva requested, her policy was cancelled, 
and a refund was provided. Mrs M is also unhappy with the amount of the refund she 
received.
What happened
Mrs M purchased a policy online. She declared she had 10 years NCD.
Mrs Ms policy started on 6 February 2021 and the annual cost which Mrs M paid upfront 
was £612.
On 16 March 2021 Aviva wrote to Mrs M to explain that as she hadnt sent in proof of a valid 
NCD it had removed the NCD from her policy and an additional premium of £367.79 was 
due.
Aviva has explained that Mrs Ms NCD had not been earned in the UK and therefore it could 
not be used on the policy.
Mrs M refused to pay the additional premium. She said she had answered other questions 
accurately that should have identified her NCD wasnt earned in the UK, and that Avivas 
system should have picked up on this. She had not realised she could not use her NCD with 
the policy. Furthermore, the quotation wasnt clear that a discount had been applied to the 
premium in recognition of the NCD Mrs M had declared.
As Mrs M refused to pay the additional premium requested by Aviva her policy was 
cancelled and a pro-rata amount of the additional premium plus a cancellation fee was 
charged before a refund was calculated.
Our Investigator looked at Mrs Ms complaint and thought Aviva had acted fairly. Mrs M 
disagreed, so her complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am unable to tell a business what it should charge for the insurance it provides or that it 
should change its processes. This is the job of the regulator. Instead I will look at Mrs Ms 
individual complaint and decide if she has been treated fairly by Aviva.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is
that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation
is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms
or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
The information Mrs M saw online when she took out her policy stated:
How many years no claim discount is there available to use on this vehicle?...
NCD from a previous insurer must have been earned within the last 2 years and we will not
accept NCD earned as a named driver. Proof may be required. Introductory discount may
be available based on your driving history if:
You have been named as a driver on an Aviva policy or you have been the sole user 
of a company car
Your NCD has been earned abroad
Please contact us to confirm any introductory discount
I think its clear from this statement that Mrs M was required to contact Aviva as her NCD 
was earned abroad. Had Mrs M contacted Aviva it could have explained that her NCD was 
not valid, and provided an accurate quote based on her driving history.
As the information presented to Mrs M was clear, and she didnt contact Aviva before 
proceeding with the insurance, I am satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation has taken place. 
And I think Mrs M was careless in the information provided.
One of the remedies available to Aviva when a misrepresentation of this type takes place is 
to cancel the policy, although we find it reasonable for an insurer to offer the consumer the 
option of paying the cost of the insurance that the insurer would have charged if all the 
information given was correct, as Aviva has done here.
I appreciate that Mrs M has told us she also answered other questions during the quotation 
process that should have alerted Aviva to the fact that her NCD was not earned in the UK. I 
have thought about this but as Ive said above the section of the quotation process that 
covered Mrs Ms NCD was clear, so this doesnt change my decision.
Aviva has told us it would still have offered Mrs M a policy had it been provided with the 
correct information about her NCD. So overall, I think Aviva acted fairly in requesting an 
additional premium from Mrs M when it found she didnt have a valid NCD. As Mrs M refused 
to pay the additional amount, I also think it acted fairly when it decided to cancel her policy.
Mrs Ms policy started on 6 February 2021 and the premium charged was £612. If Mrs Ms 
policy had been set up correctly from the outset, she would have been charged an additional 
£367.79.
The policy was live until 28 May 2021 (111 days). 111 days cover on a pro-rata basis comes 
to approximately £297.96, a mid-term cancellation fee of £42.56 was also applied bringing 
the total amount payable to £340.52. Mrs M was refunded a total of £301.22 meaning she 
appears to have received a slightly higher refund than was due.
Considering the above I think Aviva has acted reasonably and I dont think it should have to 
take any action to resolve Mrs Ms complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman