DRN-2735777
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy because HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
What Mr K says
Mr K says he received an email out of the blue from a company Ill call company A that 
offered him the opportunity to invest in renewable energy by taking out a bond. He says he 
had invested before after receiving similar emails. Mr K was interested so responded and 
was told he could expect interest of 10% a year. Before deciding to invest Mr K checked 
company A on the Companies House website and saw the address matched with the 
literature hed been provided with (which included a brochure). Mr K says he didnt complete 
any further checks and hadnt done anything more when he invested in the past. 
Mr K decided to invest and made the following payments:
Date Amount Comments
08/10/19 £25,000
17/10/19 £25,000 Payment returned
18/10/19 £25,000
22/10/19 £20,000
23/10/19 £15,000
TOTAL £85,000
HSBC flagged the second £25,000 payment and called Mr K about it on the evening of 17 
October 2018. As Mr K didnt respond HSBC recalled the payment. The following morning 
Mr K made the payment again and spoke to HSBC at the time as he wanted to ensure this 
payment wasnt recalled too. Following the call, the payment was made. All of the above 
payments were made to an account at a financial intermediary which passed the funds on to 
the scammer.
In February 2020 Mr K received another email about another investment opportunity from a 
company Ill call company B. This company offered Mr K a bond with a well-known bank 
which offered 9.375% interest a year. Mr K completed the same checks before deciding to 
invest and also went through an application process. He received a brochure and details of 
an online portal to log in to. Mr K made the following payments to a financial intermediary:
Date Amount
18/02/20 £20,000
20/02/20 £10,000
Total £30,000
Some time after Mr K had made the payments referred to above company As website 
disappeared and Mr K became aware hed been scammed. He then looked in to company B 
and found it was a clone of a genuine investment company. Mr K reported the scams to 
HSBC on 2 October 2020 and contacted it again the following day as HSBC hadnt included 
the final £10,000 payment in its communications with the beneficiary bank. 
HSBC agreed to refund 50% of Mr Ks losses under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code). HSBC held Mr K liable for the remainder of his loss as it believed he 
should have done further checks to ensure the investment was genuine. For example, Mr K 
could have checked company A on the FCA register or reviewed the investment with a 
financial advisor. HSBC also said it notified the beneficiary bank when the scam was 
reported but was advised that no funds remained. 
Mr K was unhappy with HSBCs response and so brought a complaint to this service. The 
investigator who considered it asked HSBC to refund Mr Ks losses in full. She said she 
thought Mr K had a reasonable basis for believing the payee he was paying was the person 
he expected to pay, and that companies A and B were legitimate businesses. This was 
because Mr K had previously invested after receiving emails out of the blue; had completed 
a normal application process; checked both firms at Companies House and confirmed the 
details matched those hed been given; received genuine looking documentation and saw 
nothing unusual in paying intermediaries as hed done so when investing previously. Also, 
the investigator felt HSBC could have prevented the scam altogether, or at least from the 
second payment which it flagged but didnt ask appropriate questions or provide any scam 
warnings.
HSBC strongly disagreed that Mr K had a reasonable basis for believing companies A and B 
were legitimate HSBC also said the investigator hadnt separately considered whether Mr K 
acted with gross negligence. In summary, HSBC made the following points:
- Mr K received unexpected emails about investment opportunities. 
- Mr K didnt check either company with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
complete any checks to ensure the emails he received were genuine. 
- The investigator failed to take in to account all the circumstances at the time of 
payment as required by the Code  no consideration was given to Mr Ks 
characteristics and the fact he wasnt vulnerable or unsophisticated.
- Mr K was in a more informed position than HSBC at the time of payment because 
hed had direct contact with the businesses and seen the documents provided. 
- Mr K should have realized the rate of return he was offered was unrealistic and 
should reasonably have been more cautious given that such large amounts of money 
were involved. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says the following 
exception applies in this case.
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
            the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
            genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
            was legitimate.I am also mindful that when Mr K made these payments, HSBC should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr K 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
HSBC should in any event have intervened more when the first payment was made 
as it was unusual and out of character for Mr K and if it had done so, I am satisfied 
the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr K lost.
The lost money came from various sources including an inheritance, proceeds from 
the sale of Mr Ks late mothers home, another current account and a savings 
account. Given that Mr K paid the 50% refund HSBC provided under the CRM Code 
to a savings account with another financial business I consider it most likely this is 
what Mr K would have done with the remaining funds were it not for the scams. 
Because of this, Im persuaded HSBC should pay interest at the rates that applied to 
that savings account from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
I have carefully considered the banks representations about whether Mr K had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr K failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr K lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
The fact that Mr K received unexpected emails about investment opportunities wasnt 
unusual to him and so didnt cause him any concern. Mr K says he has invested in 
genuine companies before after receiving unsolicited emails. He also says he paid 
intermediaries when making genuine investments, so also didnt see this as unusual. 
Nothing about either investment opportunity stood out to Mr K as unusual. He was 
provided with genuine looking documents and went through application processes for 
each company as hed expect. From what I have seen, the correspondence Mr K 
received from each company is in line with what he would have expected to receive 
in connection with a genuine investment of this type.Mr K looked up both companies at Companies House before making the payments to 
verify the information the fraudsters had told him about each company. Mr K has 
explained that the results he obtained from these checks tied in with the information 
the fraudsters had already told him. Cloning a genuine firm gives the interaction 
legitimacy so I think it was reasonable that Mr K didnt detect hed been provided with 
details of cloned companies. 
HSBC believes Mr K should have checked the FCA register. But I dont agree it was 
unreasonable for Mr K not to have done so in the circumstances of this complaint. At 
the time, Mr K fully believed he was in contact with genuine firms. Im also mindful 
that the average consumer will probably not know exactly what information they are 
looking to verify on the FCA register unless they are given guidance of the 
significance of that additional search. HSBC didnt provide this guidance when it 
spoke to Mr K when he made the £25,000 payment for the second time and Mr K 
hadnt checked the register previously because he wasnt aware of the importance of 
it. 
In summary, for the reasons set out above, and considering the overall circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied Mr K didnt make the payments to A and B without a reasonable 
basis for belief that he was making legitimate investments. 
For completeness, and for similar reasons to those I have already set out above, I am not 
persuaded Mr K grossly negligent, and so that exception to reimbursement cant reasonably 
be applied. 
Could HSBC have done anything else to prevent the scam, bearing in mind good industry 
practice at the time and considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case?
In addition, HSBC ought reasonably to have done more to prevent this scam. The largest 
payment from the account prior to the first £25,000 scam payment was for £15,000. The 
second £25,000 payment was flagged by HSBC so its clear HSBC recognised that this 
payment was unusual for Mr K. As HSBC was unable to speak to Mr K about the payment it 
recalled it. Mr K then called HSBC the following day (18 October 2019) to make the second 
£25,000 payment again. In this call the HSBC advisor asked Mr K the purpose of the 
payment and how he got the payment details but nothing more. So I dont consider HSBC 
went far enough. 
Im satisfied that some further questions from the advisor Mr K spoke to, such as whether 
the company Mr K was investing in was FCA registered alongside an impactful explanation 
of the prevalence of this type of scam would have reasonably led Mr K to complete further 
checks before making the payments. Had that happened, Im persuaded its more likely than 
not the scam would have come to light, and Mr Ks loss would have been prevented. 
The relevance of this finding is that HSBC ought to have prevented the loss, rather than
just reimbursed Mr K under the provisions of the CRM Code. It follows HSBC should pay Mr 
K interest from the date of loss, rather than the date it decided not to refund him under the 
CRM Code. 
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require HSBC Bank Plc to refund the remaining 50% of Mr Ks 
losses (£57,500) together with interest at the rate that applied to Mr Ks savings account 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman