DRN-1535581
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store purchase in 2000. It looks like Mr L was buying some electrical equipment at the time 
and he took out PPI with the credit facility for the account.
Although this all took place at a well-known retailer at the time, the company now 
responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA France IARD 
throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldn't be 
upheld. Mr L disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
A key point of his complaint is that he never even knew he had PPI. If this was right then 
clearly that would be reason for concern. However, whilst Im sure Mr L honestly believes 
this now, I think its much more likely he just cant remember exactly how this purchase took 
place, because its now almost 20 years ago. I say this because Im afraid theres very 
strong - and indeed reliable - evidence to the contrary, in my view. In short, I think he agreed 
to the cover being added although I accept Mr L has no such recollection.
I was sent a copy of the actual credit agreement he used back in 2000 which had a specific 
section on it about PPI. Mr L signed that section to say he wanted the PPI, as well as also 
signing another part of the form to agree to the hire-purchase element. I think hed have 
been equally able to not sign the PPI section because there was a clear option not to do so. 
But by signing his name, I think this shows he wanted the cover. I think his consent was 
properly obtained.
This was a non-advised sale. This means the business only needed only to provide enough 
clear information for Mr L to decide for himself whether or not he wanted the cover and I do 
think Mr L had access to enough information to allow him to make an informed decision. I 
see all the costs, for example, were clearly outlined on the agreement and specifically, it said 
the PPI would be £5.89 per month. I also think its likely he would have been given 
information about the policy rules.
Looking at what Mr L did for a living, I think he may have had some sickness protection 
already with his job. But this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. He was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended to see in some of 
these policies. And if hed become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI would have paid off 
the loan repayments. These benefits would have been in addition to any other means Mr L 
had in place at the time.
So although I cant say why Mr L decided to select this cover when he applied for the credit, I 
think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to him and it was his 
decision. I think this could explain why he chose it on the form.
For me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that he wasnt given an 
option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont have 
that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mr L specifically selected the PPI and 
had access nearby to the information he needed about the policy and its rules. I dont think 
theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have changed how he acted. 
Im afraid theres no supporting evidence to say this policy was mis-sold. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr L but Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint or require AXA France IARD 
to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman