DRN-3429152
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined his mortgage application then recorded a 
marker against him on a fraud prevention database. 
What happened
Mr K made an online application with Santander on 1 March 2019 for a mortgage to 
purchase a property. Santander issued a mortgage offer dated 12 March 2019 but then 
withdrew the offer the following day. 
Mr K said he tried to obtain a mortgage with three other lenders after Santander declined his 
application, but all applications were declined. Mr K said he only found out in January 2021 
that Santander had applied a fraud marker against him and believes this is the reason why 
he was unable to obtain a mortgage from any other lender. Mr K said as a result of this, he 
suffered financial loss because he lost the deposit for the property of £47,250 along with 
£2,700 for associated costs. He would like this refunded along with £30,000 compensation 
for the stress and anxiety that this has put him through. 
Mr K complained to Santander in January 2021 and Santander explained to Mr K that they 
had issues verifying his income in March 2019. So, Santander declined the mortgage 
application and applied a fraud marker. Santander did explain to Mr K that if he provided 
specific income evidence again, they would consider it. Santander did this and then 
arranged for the fraud marker on the CIFAS fraud prevention database to be removed. 
However, they maintained an inconsistency marker with both SIRA and National Hunter 
which are fraud detection and prevention databases.
Mr K disagreed with Santander and argues that he had the fraud marker against his name 
for two years without knowing about it and that it was falsely applied. So he brought the 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator didnt think we could consider the complaint about the mortgage application 
because Santander had issued a final response letter about this on 21 March 2019, but Mr K 
didnt contact our service about this until March 2021. So he thought this was brought 
outside the six-month time limit. 
Regarding the fraud markers, our investigator acknowledged that the CIFAS marker had 
been removed but he thought that the SIRA and National Hunter markers should also be 
removed. He also thought that Santander should pay Mr K £250 for the trouble and upset he 
was caused as our investigator thought Santander could have done more checks at the time 
the application was made. 
Santander agreed and confirmed they have now also removed the inconsistency markers on 
the SIRA and National Hunter databases and agreed to pay Mr K £250 for the trouble and 
upset he was caused. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator. He said he is still suffering from Santanders actions. 
He said that he has been promised on many occasions that anything Santander hold against 
him has been removed including on all public forums.
Mr K said this is still impacting his daily life and does not accept the £250 compensation but 
would accept £20,000 as compensation instead from Santander. 
As Mr K disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already explained that we will not be able to look into the issues raised 
with regards to the mortgage application so this decision will solely focus on the fraud 
markers that Santander have applied against Mr K.
CIFAS
Santander declined Mr Ks mortgage application and they also recorded a marker about him 
with CIFAS, for application fraud. They had concerns about Mr Ks income which they said 
they were unable to verify. 
Lenders should only record information on fraud databases where they have reasonable 
grounds to do so. Ive looked at what Santander have done in Mr Ks case, to decide if they 
acted fairly. 
Santander had to assess Mr Ks income in order to approve the application he made in 
2019. Santander said they had concerns because the P60s they had obtained from Mr K 
showed a different salary from what Mr K said he was earning. Mr K said his salary was 
£75,000. The P60 from 2016/2017 showed Mr K earned £11,346.65 for that tax year. The 
2017/2018 P60 showed that Mr K earned £25,766.66 so I understand why Santander had 
some concerns.  
Santander said they also looked at Mr Ks bank statements and some of the monthly income 
differed to the income evidence they were given. But Mr K told Santander he received a pay 
increase in September 2018 and having looked at Mr Ks payslip from January 2019, I can 
see that the monthly income is more in line with the £75,000 salary that Mr K said he earned. 
Lenders carry out income checks to ensure that information they are given is correct and 
accurate. And when Santander did this, they were not able to verify the income that Mr K 
said he earned. So because of the concerns they had, they applied the fraud markers on the 
fraud prevention databases. 
Mr K contacted Santander in January 2021 after discovering the CIFAS marker and 
Santander have since looked at the new evidence that Mr K provided and they are now 
satisfied he didnt mislead or provide false information when he applied for a mortgage in 
2019  so they have removed the CIFAS marker. And since our investigators involvement, 
they have also removed the SIRA and National Hunter fraud markers showing against Mr K. 
Santander have now been able to verify Mr Ks income, so they have removed these 
markers. But I think that Santander should have been able to do this much earlier than they 
did, and I believe it should have been obvious that income on the P60 might not reflect the 
actual income that Mr K was earning because Mr K told them he had recently had an 
increase in his salary. I would have expected Santander to ask more questions rather than 
just applying the markers against Mr K. 
I understand that Mr K is unhappy that Santander didnt inform him that the fraud markers 
were applied against his name. Lenders do not have to notify borrowers if markers have 
been applied against them. There is no requirement for them to so. And I do note that Mr K 
said he wasnt able to obtain a mortgage from other lenders because of the marker applied 
against his name. Lenders who use CIFAS shouldnt automatically decline an application 
just because of a marker  that is set out in CIFASs guidance to its members. I therefore 
cant hold Santander responsible for this. I understand that the markers caused Mr K a considerable amount of stress and upset as he 
said this has impacted him a great deal. As Ive already mentioned above, other lenders 
shouldnt automatically decline applications because of the fraud markers that were held 
against him, but I do think that Santander should have done more to understand Mr Ks 
situation at the time the application was made. I do think that the £250 Santander have 
offered to compensate Mr K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
While I acknowledge that Mr K would like Santander to pay him £20,000 in compensation, I 
dont agree this is reasonable. While I accept Santander could have done things better, I 
think the amount they offered is fair. Santander had reason to doubt Mr K when he made a 
mortgage application and I do agree they could have dealt with things better, but I think the 
£250 is a fair and reasonable offer in this situation. I cant look at the deposit that Mr K said 
he lost when he made the mortgage application as this part of the complaint is time-barred. 
So the award of £250 is an award for the impact of the markers being applied wrongly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr 
K £250 for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman