DRN-2688283
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Credit Card (Fluid) transferred a lower
amount than shed asked for onto her new credit card. 
What happened
In February 2020 Miss M replied to an offer from Fluid to transfer her credit card balance to
them on a zero interest offer. She called them and asked them to transfer £2,692 from her
existing credit card. When the agreement came through to her, theyd only transferred
£1,299.
Miss M complained. She said that shed asked for £2,692 to be transferred when she called
Fluid. And that the agent had agreed to this. She assumed that her request had been
fulfilled. But when she received her statement for her existing card and saw what had been
done, she was disappointed. Now she had two credit cards  she only wanted one. And it
meant she couldnt benefit from the zero interest offer as much as she wanted to.
Fluid replied in April 2020. They apologised. They couldnt listen to the call but accepted
Miss Ms version of what had happened. They upheld her complaint and paid compensation
of £25.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service in May 2020. Our investigator looked at what
had happened. She said that the online application process said that the amount of the
requested transfer wasnt the same as the credit limit  and so there was no guarantee that
the requested balance transfer would be agreed. Miss Ms limit was £1500, and Fluids
policy was to offer 90% of that, so she couldnt have transferred what she wanted. She
agreed that the call recording couldnt be found but on the balance of probabilities, she
thought that a limit of £1500 had been offered. She thought that Fluid had acted reasonably
and the compensation theyd paid was fair.
Miss M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. 
I reached a provisional decision  where I said:
Ive reached a different view to our investigator. Because of this, my
decision here will be provisional and both sides will have an opportunity to respond before I
make a final decision on this complaint.
We have conflicting evidence here. But the problem is that Fluid cant evidence a recording
of the call, so we cant be certain of what was said. That means that I must base my decision
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened here, on the balance of the
evidence that is available.
On 28 February, Miss Ms statements show there was a balance transfer completed for
£1,298.08 plus a 4% fee of £51.92. There was no interest charged on the transferred
balance for nine months.
Fluid have said that a transfer of the full amount wouldnt have been possible as their
system. And the online application process would have said The amount you enter may not
determine your credit limit". So, Miss M should have known that the limit and transfer
amount were different. And the amount of the balance transfer would have been made clear
as the script that the agent would have read out included the words "I must inform you that
the [Balance / Money] Transfer that you are eligible for is X% for [offer term]  this offer
applies from the date your account was opened.
But Fluid havent been able to evidence a recording of the call. Theyve shown us that they
searched their system for it. Also, they cant show us the welcome pack that wouldve been
sent to Miss M showing the credit limit and agreed terms. There arent any notes on her
account about the transaction or call either. Theyve suggested that maybe there wasnt
actually a successful call  that it didnt get through. But I think this is unlikely as the lending
was agreed and the transfer made. And Miss M has shown us her mobile phone bill showing
three calls to Fluid on 28 February 2020  two failed and were for a few seconds, but the last
one was for 15 minutes.
Miss M has been clear and consistent with her account of what happened here. She says
that the person she spoke to agreed to transfer the full amount that she wanted, and she
went ahead on that basis. In the absence of any clear evidence to the contrary, Im
persuaded that what she says happened is more likely than not to be accurate, on balance.
I accept that Fluids systems and processes wouldnt have allowed for the transfer to be
made on the basis that Miss M wanted. But that doesnt change the fact that Im persuaded
that it gave her wrong information, and this was the basis on which Miss M proceeded with
the transfer. That, I think, has led to a loss for her. I say this because Miss M has told us that
she wouldnt have gone ahead with the balance transfer for the lower amount  as she didnt
want to have two cards  so she would have applied for another offer from a competitor.
In working out whats fair to put Miss M in the position she would be in if Fluid hadnt made
an error here, Ive taken into account that Miss M would have had an interest-free period on
the transferred amount of £2,692. So, I think Fluid should pay Miss M the interest shell have
to pay on the extra amount that she wanted to transfer (£1,393) at the rate on her existing
credit card (19.95% per annum) for the interest-free period of nine months. This comes out
at £208.42, but if either side disagree with my calculations here  they can respond to this
provisional decision and set out why.
Fluid were charging a balance transfer fee of 4% - but under the circumstances I dont think
its fair to effectively reduce the award by this amount, so it shouldnt be charged on the
amount in question (£1393). Also, Miss M has spent considerable time in putting her 
complaint together and had been frustrated and distressed by what has happened, so a
distress and inconvenience payment of a further £100 is fair.
Miss M and Fluid accepted my findings.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss M and Fluid have accepted my findings, I wont be departing from what I said in 
my provisional decision, for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final decision is that Fluid should 
do what Ive already suggested here.  My final decision
NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Credit Card should pay Miss M £208.42, plus a payment of 
£100 for distress and inconvenience. No balance transfer fee to be charged on the amount 
of £1393.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman