DRN-3615300
The complaint
Miss A complains that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made under her employers group 
critical illness scheme.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Miss A joined her employers group critical illness scheme on 1 May 2020. After receiving a 
confirmed multiple sclerosis diagnosis in September 2020, Miss A made a claim under the 
scheme. Unum declined the claim under an ongoing investigations exclusion clause:
Pre-existing and related conditions exclusions

Ongoing investigations: No benefit will be paid for any medical condition or surgical 
procedure where the member was undergoing ongoing medical investigations or 
monitoring before the date of becoming a member, which led to the later diagnosis of 
a critical illness or related condition.
A complaint was raised but Unums position didnt change. In short, they said:
The medical evidence shows Miss A began experiencing sensory symptoms in 
February 2020 and that she spoke with her GP about this on 31 March 2020. The GP 
referred Miss A to a consultant neurologist and the referral letter indicated the reason 
was possible multiple sclerosis. A report from the multiple sclerosis clinic mentions 
that Miss A reported experiencing an episode of sensory dysfunction and fatigue in 
2019. 
Its recognised from a clinical perspective that being under investigation means an 
individual has been referred to see a consultant to determine whether reported 
symptoms have an underlying cause. As Miss As consultant concluded her 
symptoms needed to be investigated, she was under investigation from this point.
As the evidence shows Miss A had reported symptoms for which she was referred for 
investigation prior to joining the scheme, they were satisfied the exclusion had been 
fairly applied. 
Group policies provide cover different to that taken out independently and include 
exclusions as insurers havent had the opportunity to individually underwrite the 
cover. Had Miss A applied for an individual policy then she wouldve needed to 
disclose the symptoms and the neurologist referral which wouldve led to exclusions 
being applied.
Without this exclusion, they would be open to claims theyd never accept under the 
terms of an individual policy. The exclusions were set out in the terms and conditions. 
This is standard industry practice and not something they consider unfair.
Miss A referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as she didnt think the 
ongoing investigations exclusion applied to her claim. In short, she said:
She had a single telephone appointment with her GP in March 2020 in which she 
disclosed symptoms of numbness and pins and needles. The GP informed her that 
he would make a referral to neurology but it was delayed and cancelled due to Covid-
19. No investigations took place prior to her joining the scheme in May 2020.
In June 2020 she privately engaged a neurologist, Dr S. Dr S wasnt recommended 
or referred through the NHS or by the GP from the March 2020 appointment. After 
various investigations  including MRI scans and blood tests  she received the 
multiple sclerosis diagnosis in September 2020. 
Ongoing medical investigations denotes more than one act, inquiry or examination  
arguably over a period of time (prior to cover commencing). She disputes that a 
single telephone call during the March GP appointment constitutes ongoing medical 
investigations. And the fact that a referral was made but that was ultimately cancelled 
also cannot constitute ongoing medical investigations.
The referral from the March GP appointment did not in any way lead to the later 
diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. It is the medical investigations undertaken by Dr S, 
which happened after joining the scheme, which led to the diagnosis.
Being diagnosed with a multiple sclerosis has had, and will continue to have, a huge 
impact on her life mentally, physically, emotionally and financially. It is certain her 
physical health will deteriorate in the future and having access to these funds will 
ensure she can get some of the support, care and equipment she will inevitably 
need.
One of our investigators looked into it but he didnt think Unum had unfairly declined the 
claim. In short, he said:
Having looked at the notes from the March 2020 GP appointment, he considered it 
showed that investigations that led to eventual diagnosis began from this point. This 
is because the GP suspected Miss A may have multiple sclerosis and so arranged an 
urgent referral to neurology for it to be looked in to further.
Irrespective of whether Miss A actioned the referral made by the GP or sought a 
neurologist privately, he didnt think it was unreasonable for Unum to consider 
investigations had begun following the conclusion of the GP appointment.
The policy exclusion clause is clearly worded and he considered the evidence shows 
Miss A was undergoing investigations before cover commenced. So, he thought 
Unum had acted in line with the policy terms.
Miss A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, shes said:
When considering whether the exclusion applies to her claim, we must question 
whether  before she joined the scheme  she was undergoing medical 
investigations. 
For the purposes of the exclusion, it is not relevant when she experienced symptoms 
(as symptoms arent referred to in the clause), when she was referred for investigation (as a referral isnt the same as ongoing investigations) or when 
investigations started (as this doesnt necessarily mean investigations were ongoing).
The key words are ongoing and investigations (plural). The word ongoing means 
continuing or still in progress. And so, the language used requires more than one act, 
enquiry or examination otherwise the use of ongoing and the plural use of 
investigations would be redundant. Therefore, were there medical investigations 
(more than one) being carried out and, if so, were these ongoing in the sense they 
would continue in the future?
oA single telephone call appointment with a GP doesnt constitute ongoing 
medical investigations. And any referral by the GP did not eventuate, it was 
not continuing or still in progress and certainly didnt lead to anything that was 
ongoing.
oThere wasnt more than one investigation/appointment/test before May 2020. 
It therefore cannot be said that, following the conclusion of the March GP 
appointment, she was undergoing ongoing investigations as nothing 
happened between that appointment and cover commencing. 
oShe wasnt undergoing medical investigations under June 2020. 
It then has to be considered whether these ongoing investigations being carried out 
were prior to her joining the scheme. It is irrelevant when she was referred for 
investigation or when the investigation started if it wasnt ongoing before this point. 
oThe only event that occurred during this period was the March 2020 GP 
appointment. This, in itself, doesnt constitute ongoing medical investigations.
There must also be a causal link between the ongoing medical investigations that 
occurred before cover commenced and the subsequent diagnosis. 
oIt cannot possibly be said the March 2020 GP appointment led to the multiple 
sclerosis diagnosis. This is because there is no causal link between the 
appointment and the diagnosis, whereas there is a direct causal link with the 
investigations undertaken by Dr S
She was not undergoing ongoing medical investigations before cover commenced. 
And it was the separate and distinct investigations that occurred after 1 May 2020 
that led to the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. 
The fact of the matter is that in June 2020, her symptoms changed. She had 
difficultly using her right hand but had no reason to believe that this was multiple 
sclerosis. She only knew something wasnt right and so had no choice but to engage 
someone privately to carry out investigations.
It is important to consider this policy and the ordinary meaning of the words used in 
the exclusion relied on by Unum. If Unum wanted to exclude liability in circumstances 
where, before the policy began, a member had experienced symptoms or had 
consulted a GP in respect of those symptoms this would have, and should have, 
been explicitly stated in the policy. However, Unum carefully chose to exclude for 
ongoing investigations only - arguably this requires more than merely experiencing 
symptoms or consulting a GP in respect of those symptoms.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Miss A that Ive given careful consideration to everything shes said 
in support of her complaint. I realise this is a very difficult time for Miss A in light of her 
diagnosis and, given the financial implications, I dont underestimate the importance of this 
matter to her. But what I must consider here is whether Unum has acted fairly, and in line 
with the scheme conditions, by declining Miss As claim. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
investigator and for similar reasons.
The policy conditions (user guide - including general terms) set out the cover Miss A 
receives as a member of the group scheme. This includes when Unum is required to pay a 
claim. Miss A agreed to these conditions when she joined the scheme and so, I think its 
reasonable for Unum to apply them when considering the claim. Ive therefore looked at 
whether theyve done so fairly.
Unum is relying on the ongoing investigations exclusion clause. It says no benefit will be 
paid for any medical condition or surgical procedure where the member was undergoing 
ongoing medical investigations or monitoring before the date of becoming a member, which 
led to the later diagnosis of a critical illness or related condition.
Ive given careful consideration to Miss As interpretation of this exclusion clause and how 
she feels it should be applied to her circumstances. And, I agree that in order for it to be 
fairly applied to Miss As claim it must be shown that she was undergoing ongoing medical 
investigations or monitoring prior to cover commencing (1 May 2020). 
It isnt in dispute that Miss A had a GP appointment prior to this date regarding symptoms of 
numbness and pins and needles. And the record from this appointment say:
Ongoing since start of Feb. Had barhtolins cyst for 4 days prior to onset, was on 
abx. Noticed pins and needles on discharge from hospital. Was seen in A&E for 
possible GBS. Has been referred to neurology  appt in July. Worried as getting 
worse. Last few days numbness in hands, feels weird to stretch out hands, want to 
be flexed fingers. Feels like wearing band across waist.

Diagnosis
Possible Multiple sclerosis Paraesthesia
Management
I have created an urgent referral to neurology for you, I suspect this could be MS and 
this needs to be ruled out. you are also going to look at the private options as well. As Miss A points out, when the symptoms occurred isnt necessarily relevant here. But, from 
this medical record, its clear that multiple sclerosis  the medical condition being claimed for 
 was suspected in March 2020. And, because of the symptoms Miss A was experiencing, 
the GP arranged an urgent referral to a neurologist for this to be looked in to further. I think 
its therefore reasonable to consider that the investigation of Miss As symptoms (medical 
condition)  which was later diagnosed as multiple sclerosis  began at this point. 
I understand Miss A disputes that this singular GP appointment constitutes investigations. 
And, as the neurology referral from the GP didnt go ahead, the investigation(s) wasnt 
ongoing before she joined the scheme. Ive noted Miss As points here but I disagree. Ill 
explain why. 
Although Miss As neurology referral didnt go ahead, I havent seen anything to suggest 
Miss A was either discharged or that the referral was no longer needed prior to 1 May 2020. 
So, Im not persuaded that the investigations into Miss As symptoms had ended by that 
point. Therefore, while Covid-19 appears to have delayed the investigations, I think it would 
be reasonable to conclude that they were still required and thereby ongoing.
I also dont think a further appointment, test or examination had to have taken place before 
1 May 2020 for it to be considered that Miss A was undergoing investigations. I think a 
reasonable interpretation of undergoing investigations means that the cause of the 
symptoms hasnt yet been established or diagnosed, and further investigation is planned. 
From Miss As medical records, this seems to be the case as a neurology referral was made 
with a clear reason for trying to rule out multiple sclerosis. Therefore, irrespective of when 
Miss A saw a neurologist, I think it was reasonable for Unum to consider Miss A was 
undergoing ongoing medical investigations for multiple sclerosis before she joined the 
scheme.
Ive also considered that Miss A says that neither the GP appointment nor the neurology 
referral led to the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. This is because, it was instead diagnosed 
as result of the investigations undertaken by Dr S. And these investigations began because 
Miss As symptoms changed as she had difficulties using her right hand. 
Having looked at the March 2020 GP medical record, it refers to Miss A having numbness in 
[her] hands, feels weird to stretch out hands. So, although Miss As later symptoms may 
have progressed (or changed), I think theres a reasonable link between the symptoms she 
was experiencing at the time of the GP appointment and those that she sought investigation 
for with Dr S. I also think its relevant that the GP medical record says Miss A was going to 
look at the private options as well. This, in my view, suggests that the decision to seek a 
neurologist via private treatment came, at least partly, because of the discussion with the GP 
in March 2020. Had it not, then I think its unlikely Miss A wouldve gone directly to a 
neurologist but rather she wouldve first sought treatment from a GP (as she did in March 
2020). I therefore think the GP appointment did lead to the eventual diagnosis of multiple 
sclerosis, albeit through investigations carried out by Dr S. 
It follows that I think Unum has fairly applied the ongoing investigations exclusion clause to 
Miss As claim. And so, while Im very sympathetic to Miss As circumstances, I think Unum 
has acted fairly  and in line with the scheme conditions  by declining her critical illness 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman