DRN-4303387
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a cash withdrawal of £500 that she 
didnt make.
What happened
Ms M says she didnt make this withdrawal on 4 March 2023. She had tried to take out 
money herself, but this had been declined. She explains that she reported this to police.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding this money. Ms M had her card in her possession and 
there was no explanation of how someone would have discovered the PIN. She had used 
the card a short time before and after the withdrawal.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the withdrawal 
was made with the chip on the card and the PIN. No other attempted payments were made. 
A fraudster would have quickly needed to return the card to Ms M after using it which would 
be unusual, and shed have likely noticed. And there was no explanation of how her PIN was 
discovered.
Ms M is represented in this complaint. Her representative said that Ms M didnt withdraw this 
money, and this was an uncharacteristic amount for her. Attempts had been made to obtain 
the CCTV for the cashpoint involved but these were not successful, and the representative 
said how upsetting this was given the time that had passed and that no one was helping 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised   
Ms M wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for this 
payment?
- Did Ms M authorise the payment on the account? 
Im satisfied that the withdrawal was authenticated when the chip on the card was read, and 
the correct PIN entered. The issue is whether Ms M consented to this.
I note from the information provided by Lloyds that the card was used for a genuine 
contactless payment at 14:49 that day. The disputed withdrawal was made at 15:05. And 
Ms M accepts she attempted to withdraw smaller amounts of £20 or £30 in cash at 15:35, 
16:01 and 16:03. All of those were declined as the daily withdrawal limit of £500 had been 
reached. She also used her card for a contactless payment at 15:55. From what I 
understand from the information all these payments were in the same local area.
Ms M denies making the withdrawal of £500 and so being at that cashpoint and which is 
why an attempt has been made to obtain CCTV. So, this seems to rule out for example her 
possibly being distracted using it and someone taking money from her account without her 
realising.
There were no other disputed attempts to use the card. I agree with our investigator that this 
would be unusual if an unknown third party had the card and PIN and there were still the 
available funds I can see at the time in her account. And it would be unlikely too that the 
card be returned to Ms M as this risked detection  There is no explanation of how someone 
could have seen her PIN. There is no record of her using the PIN that day before the 
disputed payment. And she says she hasnt told this PIN to anyone. Shes not as a result 
identified anyone known to her that could have carried out this withdrawal without her 
knowing.
Ive considered all the evidence and thought about the possibilities here. Having done so Im 
afraid I think that the most likely explanation is that Ms M consented to this withdrawal. And 
so, I think it reasonable for Lloyds to hold her responsible for it. I can appreciate how 
disappointed she will be by my conclusion here given what is at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman