DRN-4029579
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) increased her student 
overdraft first from £500 to £1,000, then to £1,500, and finally to £2,000, all of which were 
increases which Miss T feels werent affordable for her at those times.  
What happened
Miss T had a NatWest student bank account on which she had an overdraft facility of £500. 
In January 2018, Miss T successfully applied to NatWest to increase the overdraft facility on 
her student account to £1,000, and then a few weeks later to £1,500. In July 2018, Miss T 
successfully applied to increase her overdraft facility again, this time to £2,000.
In March 2022, Miss T raised a complaint with NatWest as she felt the overdraft facility 
increases hadnt been affordable for her at those times and that NatWest should reasonably 
have understood this, had they completed checks into her financial position before agreeing 
to those increases.
NatWest responded to Miss Ts complaint and explained that they did complete checks into 
Miss Ts financial position regarding the overdraft facility increases and they didnt feel 
thered been anything resulting from those checks that should have indicated to them that 
Miss T might not be able to afford the overdraft facility increases that shed applied for. Miss 
T wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel NatWest had acted 
unfairly by increasing Miss Ts overdraft facility as they had. Miss T remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt unusual for overdraft facilities to be provided on student bank accounts, and NatWest 
have confirmed that the overdraft facility Miss T was provided with was interest free during 
the time of her studies and for one year afterwards, with the first £1,000 of the facility 
provided interest free for a further year after that.
When Miss T applied for the student bank account with NatWest, her proposed graduation 
date was June 2020. However, in January 2020, Miss T made NatWest aware of financial 
difficulties shed encountered at that time, and this meant that NatWest agreed to repayment 
plan for the overdraft balance such that its my understanding that the full overdraft balance 
has never incurred any interest at any time. 
I mention this because where a complainant has had the benefit of borrowed money  as 
Miss T has in this instance  its the position of this service that its fair that the complainant 
should be required to pay that money back to the business from which it was borrowed. And 
this remains that case, even if its felt that money was lent to the complainant irresponsibly. 
Where a business is deemed to have lent to a complainant irresponsibly, what this service 
may instruct is that the business must reimburse to the complainant all interest thats 
accrued on the unfairly lent balance, so that the complainant is only required to repay the 
capital balance  the monetary amount that they borrowed and had the benefit of. 
But, as explained above, in this instance Miss T was never charged any interest on her 
overdraft balance at any time. And so, even if I were to decide that NatWest had provided 
the increased overdraft facilities to her unfairly, there would be no corrective action for 
NatWest to take regarding the account balance itself  because Id still consider it fair that 
Miss T should repay the monetary amount to NatWest that shes borrowed and had the 
benefit of  which is all that NatWest are requiring her to do at this time.
However, interest reimbursements arent the only potential instructions I can give to a 
business, if I feel theyve provided credit to a complainant irresponsibly. I can also instruct a 
business to amend that complainants credit file so that any adverse credit file reporting that 
resulted from the unfair provision of credit is erased. 
Ultimately though, I dont feel that NatWest did provide the overdraft facility increases to 
Miss T unfairly or irresponsibly as she contends here, and so I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further action.
There are several reasons for this, including the wider context referred to above that the 
account in question was a student account and had an interest free overdraft facility 
structured so that the account holder was able to repay any overdraft without incurring 
interest on that balance for a considerable time after the account holders studies ended. 
Such a structure is designed with the finances of students in mind, including that much of 
their income may come from loans, and allows the account holder time to obtain 
employment after leaving their studies to repay the overdraft. And, as explained, this is a 
common feature of student bank account overdraft facilities and one that I dont feel is unfair. 
Unfortunately, in this instance, Miss T encountered financial difficulties towards the end of 
2019, including that she developed a gambling addiction which had a detrimental impact on 
her ability to manage her finances. I can sympathise with Miss T in this regard. But this 
change in her financial position took place approximately a year and a half after her final 
application to NatWest in July 2018 to increase her overdraft facility to £2,000  and I dont 
feel Miss Ts change of circumstances towards the end of 2019 has any direct causal link to 
the increases in the overdraft facilities in 2018 about which Miss T now complains.
Additionally, NatWest have confirmed that they undertook reviews of Miss Ts financial 
position when Miss T first applied for an overdraft facility, and when Miss T later applied to 
increase that overdraft facility on three occasions. And while the passing of time means that 
NatWest havent been able to supply full details of the checks that they undertook, I havent 
seen anything in the information they have been able to provide which suggests that the 
checks werent reasonable or proportionate to the additional overdraft facility amounts Miss 
T was asking NatWest to provide, or that they included anything that should have given 
NatWest cause for concern.
Finally, Ive also reviewed Miss Ts credit file to check whether theres anything which I feel 
should have reasonably given NatWest cause to suspect that Miss T might not be able to 
afford the further overdraft facilities she was applying for. And, having done so, Im satisfied 
that there was nothing present in Miss Ts credit file at that time that reasonably should have 
cautioned NatWest against approving Miss Ts overdraft facility increase requests.
All of which means that I feel that it was reasonable for NatWest to have provided the overdraft facility increases to Miss T as they did. And while I appreciate that Miss T then later 
encountered difficult personal and financial circumstances which meant she had to approach 
NatWest for financial assistance which has been reflected in her credit file reporting, I dont 
feel that this adverse credit file reporting stems from the fair provision of the increased 
overdraft facilities to her, but rather from the unfortunate changes in Miss Ts circumstances 
which happened after the increases and which sit outside the scope of this complaint.
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss T was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given everything that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman