DRN-2514452
Complaint
Miss B has complained that Amigo Loans Limited (trading as Amigo) irresponsibly provided 
her with unaffordable guarantor loans. She says that if more detailed income and 
expenditure questions had been asked this would have shown she wouldnt have been able 
to make the required payments.
  
Background
Amigo provided Miss B with five guarantor loans. When Miss B referred her complaint to our 
service, Amigo accepted that it shouldnt have provided loans 3-5 to Miss B. But it thought it 
hadnt done anything wrong when it provided Miss B with loans for £4,000.00 and £5,250.00 
in April 2017 and July 2017. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Bs complaint about loans 1 and 2. He told Amigo 
that the checks it carried out before providing Miss B with these loans werent reasonable 
and proportionate and if such checks had been carried out it would have seen that Miss B 
wasnt in a position to sustainably make the repayments. So he thought that Amigo shouldnt 
have provided Miss B with these loans, upheld the complaint and said that Amigo should pay 
compensation on loans 1 and 2 and well as loans 3 to 5. 
Amigo didnt respond to our investigators assessment. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Bs complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make fair lending decisions?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss B wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would 
be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations in place when Amigo lent to Miss B required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay her loans in 
a sustainable manner. Amigo was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment in 
addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Amigo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss B. In practice 
this meant that Amigo had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause 
Miss B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Amigo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss B. The existence of a 
guarantee and the potential for Amigo to pursue the guarantor instead of Miss B, for the loan 
payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Amigo checks reasonable and proportionate?
Amigo has suggested that it completed income and expenditure assessments with Miss B. It 
says Miss Bs monthly income, at the time of both loans, was recorded as £1,450, which was verified by its income matrix at the time of loan 1 and its top-up income proof for loan 2. And 
Miss B stated she had monthly expenditure of £561.34 for loan 1 and £596.04 for loan 2. 
These checks left it concluding Miss B had a monthly disposable income of £888.66 at the 
time of loan 1 and £853.96 at the time of loan 2, which meant she was comfortably able to 
make the repayments to these loans.
Ive carefully thought about what Amigo has said. But simply requesting information from a 
borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. Im concerned Amigo only 
appears to have budgeted £324 a month to Miss Bs existing credit commitments of around 
£40,000.00. I accept some of the commitments were to be consolidated but there seems to 
be no payment or consolidation attributed to a nearly £16,000.00 balance on a hire purchase 
agreement. And at the time of loan 2 it was clear that at the time of loan 2 some of the 
revolving credit debt which had been earmarked for consolidation with the proceeds of loan 
1 hadnt been consolidated in this way.  
Furthermore, while Amigos income refers to Miss Bs income having been verified by its 
income matrix for loan 1 and its top-up income proof for loan 2, theres no indication what 
this verification entailed or what this income matrix or top-up income proof is. Im also 
particularly concerned that Amigo appeared to ignore that its credit report suggested 9 credit 
searches had been carried out on Miss B in the previous 31 days prior to loan 1 and 10 
credit searches had been carried out in the 31 days leading up to loan 2. This was indicative 
of her having made 9 and 10 respective applications for credit in the lead up to these loans. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Amigo ought to have taken steps to verify Miss Bs 
monthly income and expenditure, given the declared monthly disposable income wasnt 
reflected in the rest of the information Amigo had. 
In my view, there was a clear mismatch between what was shown on Miss Bs credit file and 
her declared (or adjusted) disposable income and this suggested further verification was 
needed. Bearing in mind the term of the loans, the cost of the credit, loan 2 being taken so 
soon after loan 1, what Amigo saw or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the 
potential implications for the guarantor, Amigo needed to get a thorough understanding of 
Miss Bs financial position in order to properly assess whether shed be able to sustainably 
make the loan payments she was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Miss B about the details of her income and expenditure and carrying 
out credit checks, I think that Amigo needed to verify what Miss B said. It could have done 
this by asking for information such as payslips, bank statements or copies of bills. And when 
it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Miss B did have 
enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that Amigo did properly scrutinise the information provided, or that it 
asked Miss B to provide documentary evidence to support the income and expenditure 
declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing Miss B with loans 1 and 2.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Amigo that Miss B would 
have been unable to sustainably repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told Amigo that Miss B wouldve 
been unable to sustainably repay these loans. Miss B has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss B has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Amigo mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Amigo showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Miss Bs financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Amigo was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in any event, 
had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from the 
guarantor. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Miss B has provided in light of all of this. 
The information provided shows that Miss Bs was already struggling to manage the quite 
considerable credit commitments she already had. She was borrowing from friends and 
family as well as other unsustainable sources to meet her commitments to her existing 
creditors and to make ends meet. In my view, the information provided demonstrates that 
Miss B was in no position to have been able to sustainably repay either of these loans.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have demonstrated that Miss B would not have been able to make the repayments 
to loans 1 and 2. 
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Amigo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some 
other way.  
So I find that Amigo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way.  
Did Miss B lose out as a result of Amigo unfairly and unreasonably providing her with her 
guarantor loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Miss Bs indebtedness. These 
loans werent cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and she ended up 
paying interest and charges on loans which she shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Miss B lost out because Amigo unfairly provided her with these loans.  
Fair compensation  what Amigo must do to put things rightIve carefully thought about what Amigo should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Bs 
complaint for Amigo to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss B paid on loans 1 and 2 (as well as 
loans 3 to 5 which it has already agreed to do);
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded interest, fees and charges 
Miss B paid from the date they were made to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo to take off tax from this interest. Amigo must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Amigo Loans Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman