DRN-3863882
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) unfairly 
voided their home insurance policy and didnt consider their claim. Mr and Mrs P were 
represented during their claim, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mr and Mrs P.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under their policy when a fire caused damage at their home. 
Accredited validated the claim, but during this process it felt Mr and Mrs P made a 
misrepresentation when taking out their policy, so it decided to void their policy. This meant 
Accredited didnt consider Mr and Mrs Ps claim for fire damage.
Accredited said Mr and Mrs P didnt inform it that they had a business operating from their 
home. It said had it known about this it wouldnt have offered them cover  which is why it 
chose to void the policy. In other words, it acted as if the policy never existed and didnt 
consider their claim.
Mr and Mrs P thought this was unfair. They didnt think they had misrepresented their 
circumstances when taking out the policy. They said they didnt have any active business 
operating during the term of the policy, only activities that amounted to a hobby. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think Mr and Mrs P had 
misrepresented their circumstances when taking out / renewing the policy, so thought it was 
unfair that Accredited had voided the policy. It recommended that the policy was re-instated, 
and the claim considered against the policy terms. For the distress and inconvenience 
caused, he awarded £250 compensation. Accredited disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accredited voided the policy due to a misrepresentation, so I have considered the merits of 
this complaint from this perspective.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances in respect to CIDRA.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Accredited said there was a misrepresentation as it said Mr and Mrs P didnt declare they 
had a business activity operating from their home address. So, I have considered what 
evidence Accredited has put forward to support its viewpoint.
Accredited has put forward its view that there were two businesses operating from Mr and 
Mrs Ps home.  And it has presented evidence from social media that it says proves a 
business was in operation from the home.
Accredited appointed an external expert to validate the claim. I think this is a reasonable 
process to follow and helps to bring an independent viewpoint to the claim. As part of the 
validation the expert considered whether Mr and Mrs P had fairly presented their 
circumstances in respect to business activities operating from their home.
So, Ive considered what the expert reported. The expert identified two potential activities 
which may have been declared businesses. However, it concluded we consider the insured 
explanation for not disclosing either to be reasonable. The experts assessment shows the 
one activity had not been active since 2017. The second activity the expert described as we 
consider this falls under the description of a craft hobby as opposed to a commercial 
business.
The expert concluded that there was a low suspicion of any fraud been undertaken by Mr 
and Mrs P in the representation of their circumstances. He did say their actions were 
careless.
I think the experts report carries most weight in this claim. The expert has said he doesnt 
think any business activities were taking place at the home during the policy cover. I 
appreciate Accredited have argued their view in relation to guidelines by HMRC. However, I 
find the experts report more persuasive. Unless there was compelling evidence to the 
contrary, I would expect Accredited to follow the experts findings. I dont think Accredited 
have provided compelling alternative evidence.
Therefore, I dont think its fair Accredited have said a misrepresentation has occurred. The 
expert, after his detailed investigation, hasnt found any evidence to support this viewpoint. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable for the policy to be voided. Therefore, I uphold this 
complaint.
To put the situation right, I require Accredited to re-instate the policy from the start of the 
term. It should consider the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The 
delay in getting the claim considered, will have delayed any potential repairs / settlement. 
This would have meant Mr and Mrs P living in sub-standard conditions for longer than 
necessary or if they have had work carried out, it would mean theyve been without this 
money for some time. Therefore, for the distress and inconvenience this has caused, 
including the time value of money, I award £250 compensation. I think this is fair.
As I dont think a misrepresentation has occurred, I havent felt it necessary to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs P has taken reasonable care.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
to:
Re-instate the policy from the start of the term
Consider the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Mr and Mrs P £250* compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mr and Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman