DRN-3385139
The complaint
Mrs R complains Skipton Building Society didnt open an ISA when she made a cash deposit 
of £15,000 in a Skipton branch.
Mrs R is being assisted by her husband, Mr R, in her complaint. As both parties were 
present during the alleged omission, I will refer to both parties throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R already held an existing portfolio of investments, which included ISAs. They 
used to live abroad but after a change of plans moved back to the UK.
On 29 August 2015, one of their sons drove them to a branch of Skipton so they could each 
open an ISA. The ISA contributions were to be made up of £16,900 in cash and the 
remainder by cheque.
Mr and Mrs R (and their son) recall the branch being opened by a woman. They assumed 
she held a managerial position due to the way she was dressed and her demeanour. In 
branch, Mr and Mrs R say the woman went through Mrs Rs ISA application with her, and 
subsequently arranged for the cash deposit  of £15,000  to be counted. This was done by 
a male colleague, who took the deposit to the back office. Mrs R was given a receipt and an 
envelope of documents  believed at the time to be confirmation of the account and deposit.
Mr and Mrs R say the woman then left the office and Mr Rs ISA application was dealt with 
by one of the male colleagues. Mrs R left the branch, leaving her envelope with her 
husband. Mr R deposited £1,900 in cash, and two cheques - £3,100 drawn on an account 
held by Mr R and £4,000 drawn on an account held by Mrs R  totalling a deposit of £9,000. 
Mr R was also given a receipt and an envelope of documents.
On 19 September 2015, two further ISA accounts were opened in Mrs Rs name online  
accounts ending 155 and 141 (although as per Skiptons processes the accounts arent 
considered open until they are funded). A call was made to Skipton later that day as a 
payment couldnt be made. A cheque was to be sent later to fund the ISA, the proceeds of 
which had come from a bond which had matured.
Mrs R later realised the latter ISA had been opened incorrectly, as the funds hadnt derived 
from an ISA, as required under the ISA rules. And so at her request this was transferred to a 
bond. Account ending 141 was never funded and so was closed in November 2015.
Following enquiries about what accounts were showing online for Mrs R, Mr and Mrs 
R realised an ISA hadnt been opened in Mrs Rs name in August 2015 and the 
envelope she had been given in branch contained general product information only. 
As an ISA from that time couldnt be located, they complained. Skipton didnt uphold 
their complaint. In summary it said:
There was no record of a female member of staff working in that branch on that day, 
and neither male staff member recalled a female worker being present either.
Neither male staff member recalls taking or counting £15,000 in cash to open an ISA 
for Mrs R. And keeping that amount of money in the branch safe over the weekend 
would have exceeded the insurance limit.
The tills balanced that day and there was no system record of an ISA application or a 
computer-generated receipt for Mrs R.
Mr R rang Skipton on 19 September 2015 in regard to an on-line ISA he had 
attempted to open for Mrs R. On the call he said an ISA hadnt been opened for Mrs 
R previously.
Skipton had carried out a full investigation, and information was passed to the police.
The branch layout that Mr R had drawn didnt resemble the layout of the branch in 
question.
Skipton said there was insufficient evidence it had received the £15,000 deposit or 
that an employee had stolen the money.
Mr and Mrs R also raised the matter with the police. The police conducted an investigation, 
but I understand there was insufficient evidence to take forward a prosecution or identify who 
had actually taken Mrs Rs money.
The matter was considered by an investigator who ultimately concluded it was likely Skipton 
did receive the £15,000 deposit that day, but something went wrong, and an ISA wasnt 
opened for Mrs R. Mr and Mrs R accepted the outcome, but Skipton didnt. It did, however, 
offer Mr and Mrs R 50% of the loss they say they suffered, in attempt to resolve this matter. 
Mr and Mrs R rejected the offer.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman for review and determination. One of my 
colleagues issued a provisional decision explaining why he wasnt minded to uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint. And that decision was finalised in February 2021. It was some months later, and 
after receiving further submissions in response to the provisional decision, that it was 
discovered Mr and Mrs R hadnt actually been sent the final decision. That meant they hadnt 
had an opportunity to accept or reject it, and so it wasnt valid for the purposes of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The matter has now been referred to me to consider afresh. There are a number of points 
that Mr R has made in relation to the findings to date. In summary:
He doesnt recall making the phone call on 19 September 2015. At the time Mr and 
Mrs Rs children were helping with the finances as Mr R had become unwell. The call 
was possibly made by one of their sons rather than him as they sound alike. If so, 
that would explain why it hadnt been understood that an ISA had already been 
opened for Mrs R. If the call was him, he wasnt in his right frame of mind, as he was 
very unwell. Mr R has latterly argued that this alleged evidence should be ruled as 
inadmissible as it is wholly unrelated to the issue in dispute. They consider the 
opening of an ISA in September 2015 to have been a clerical error by one of their 
family members.
A phrase has been quoted from a document furnished by the police, which they have 
not seen and has been quoted in a way which appears to give a misleading and out- 
of-context twist to the polices investigatory conclusion. They have not seen this 
information which prevents them from evaluating it.
The police officers involved said they had no reason to doubt their evidence and 
found them credible, although they accept the police also found the staff credible. It 
has been put on record the police believed their version of events which is why they 
took the step of sending a file to the FCA. The police informally considered there was 
enough evidence for a civil case. The FCA said theyd done the right thing in 
reporting the matter to the police.Although Mr R acknowledges the floor plan wasnt right, any error was minor and 
relates to the internal topography of the branch. The evidence was unconditionally 
accepted as reliable by the police.
The previous ombudsman took at face value Skiptons mistaken claim that two 
customers had been inside the branch when they arrived.
Skipton has refused to allow them to identify the female member of staff in the flesh 
and refused their offer to have the envelope and papers forensically examined.
Mrs R has provided a letter dated 14 November 2015 which clears up the issue of 
whether they had forgotten they hadnt made an ISA application a few months earlier. 
This product was obviously later changed because they were well aware Mrs R 
already had an ISA and were worried of breaching the ISA ceiling. There was never 
any thought on Mr Rs part that there was a vacant slot in the ISA allowance. Skipton 
should be invited to explain why they were able to produce a phone recording but 
failed to notice this letter that wholly undermined the conclusion they were looking to 
draw.
It was discovered amongst their papers that they hadnt been given a receipt or 
certificate for Mrs Rs ISA.
Skipton provided photographs of six ladies and invited them to pick out who served 
Mrs R. Mrs R declined to take part, but he thought one of the ladies resembled the 
person in question so picked them and another. They consider this process to be 
very dubious.
Skipton hasnt challenged the evidence of their son who witnessed the unlocking of 
the branch door just after the official opening time by a female official.
Its puzzling that Skipton can provide a phone call recording but not the CCTV from 
the same material time. CCTV would have clearly filmed recorded the transactions 
and the actual appropriation of the disappeared £15,000.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 March 2022. I said:
Firstly, Id like to reassure the parties that although I have only summarised the evidence 
and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided. I understand and 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about their complaint. My role is to determine 
whether or not Skipton did anything in wrong, in doing so I wont be commenting on every 
point or argument made but will be concentrating on the crux of the issue  is Skipton 
responsible for the loss of Mrs Rs money?
Mr R has asked that the phone call from the 19 September 2015 be dismissed as 
inadmissible evidence. I wont be doing that. In determining this complaint, its for me to 
decide what weight, if any, to place on the evidence before me.
I accept Mr and Mrs R believe they have clear recollections of what happened on 29 August 
2015. I also accept they believe there has been some wrongdoing on the part of Skipton, 
whether thats due to a mistake or error, or something more malign. But I treat recollections 
with a degree of caution; even the best of memories is fallible or can fade over time  even a 
short period. So whilst I will take into account their testimony, this will be weighed against the 
other evidence available to me.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs R attended the branch that day. It also isnt in dispute that 
Mr R opened an ISA with £1,900 cash and cheques drawn from accounts held individually 
by Mr and Mrs R. Skipton has been able to provide the application form and copy receipt for 
Mr Rs ISA. However, there is no such documentary evidence for Mrs R; there is no 
application form, nor receipt, even though Mrs R says she went through this process. This 
means there isnt any contemporaneous documentation to support Mr and Mrs Rs version of 
events.Mr and Mrs R say they arrived at the branch for opening-time, having been driven there by 
their son. They say a female member of staff opened the door for them and proceeded to 
deal with Mrs Rs ISA application. Due to the time that elapsed between the alleged opening 
of the ISA and Mrs R raising the missing ISA with Skipton, there is no longer any CCTV 
available nor alarm records. This isnt unusual and I dont find anything sinister about that. 
CCTV is usually only kept for 28 days which is standard for CCTV records. And Skipton has 
explained the alarm only records a set number of events after which they are overwritten. 
Skipton has submitted it only had two members of staff working that day, both males. In 
interviews by Skipton and the police, that has been confirmed by them both. It is accepted 
that members of staff can pop into a branch without logging on, and so I accept in principle 
its possible that a female member of staff was present without there being a record of that. 
However, that would be contrary to the information given to both Skipton and the police. And 
Skipton did interview the female members of staff that did work out of that particular branch 
and none of them confirmed being present that day. I dont know whether the police 
interviewed the female members of staff or not, but that is a matter for the police.
Skipton has provided records which show it was dealing with customers at the time Mr and 
Mrs R arrived at the branch  a customer account was accessed and a new account opened 
during the time they arrived and say Mrs Rs application was being processed. So Skiptons 
records dont support Mr and Mrs Rs submission around the opening of the branch. I place 
more weight on Skiptons records than Mr and Mrs Rs memory of what happened.
Skipton provided Mr and Mrs R with photographs of six females in order to help identify the 
female staff member they say dealt with Mrs Rs ISA application. Mr R found this practice 
very dubious, as it included staff members Skipton knew werent present. But it seems to me 
this is very similar to the process employed by police during a line-up. Not only does it help 
identify a specific individual but also tests the reliability of memory  I find nothing wrong in 
Skipton employing that process in order to establish who the female member of staff might 
be.
I have also considered Mr Rs submissions about the photographs they were given over the 
course of this matter. And I have found that his submissions have changed over time, such 
that I find their testimony surrounding the pictures somewhat unreliable.
In an email to the police, the FCA and Skipton on 7 November 2018, Mr R says:
 Skipton showed me pictures of their female staff and I saw amongst them the lady 
who gave us the dummy package: I confined my identification to two women but, for 
obvious reasons, this was intentionally kept a short list. However, there was a definite 
front runner.
In an email to the police on 7 December 2018, Mr R says:
They sent us six pictures all of which my wife said were not the lady involved. On the 
assumption one was, I picked the woman who most nearly resembled the missing 
lady. They now say she was a decoy  None of the other pics showed women 
anything like the one in question.
In an email to police. The FCA and Skipton on 21 December 2018, Mr R says:
 sent me six photos to identify the lady who presented us with the dummy package. 
My wifes view was that the lady who served her was not included in the set. My own 
suggestion was based on the, perhaps nave, assumption that all relevant staff 
members were included. On that basis, I identified the person most closely 
resembling the lady who dealt with us.In their complaint submission to us, of January 2019, they say:
My wife took the view that the lady responsible was not included in the array. I 
picked out a lady I would most like to talk to  she most resembled the woman who 
gave us the dummy envelope.
In correspondence sent to our office dated 15 July 2019, they say:
Presented with pictures allegedly of Skiptons [branch] staff, I picked out a lady who 
somewhat resembled the official who dealt with my wifes ISA transaction. My wife 
declined to make any selection, pointing out that one likely candidates face was 
partially obscured by designer eyeware.[sic]
In an email to our office of 28 December 2020, in response to the provisional decision issued 
by my colleague, Mr R said:
Skipton provided photos of six ladies and invited us to pick out the one who served 
my wife. Being sceptical about the exercise, my wife declined to take part, but I 
agreed to cooperate with Skipton.
As can be seen Mr R has gone from saying he saw the lady who served them amongst the 
photos, to picking out someone who closely resembled the staff member and finally to 
someone who somewhat resembled them. And in relation to Mrs R, that has gone from her 
not being able to identify the staff member as being present, to her declining to take part. 
Given the differing submissions, its hard for me to find any of them reliable, such that I dont 
think I should place any weight on them at all.
Mr and Mrs R have said although it was a female staff member that handled Mrs Rs ISA 
application, it was a male member of staff that counted the £15,000 deposit. And that this 
was the same male staff member who processed Mr Rs application. Skiptons records dont 
indicate that person was dealing with another customer at the relevant period. So I accept 
the possibility he counted Mrs Rs deposit. But when interviewed he had no recollection of 
that taking place. And Im sure most reasonable people would agree a deposit of that size, in 
cash, that needed counting, would likely stick in the memory.
Mr and Mrs R were both provided with an envelope of information  believed at the time to 
be confirmation of the ISA and deposit made. I accept there is a very good reason why those 
envelopes werent opened sooner; with both Mr and Mrs R being in ill health. That Mrs Rs 
envelope contained what Mr R describes as dummy information isnt evidence of wrong-
doing by Skipton. Skipton has explained, and I accept, that envelopes of product information 
are available for customers to take away with them  a process many banks and building 
societies employ. I accept its possible the information was provided in an attempt to pull the 
wool over Mrs Rs eyes but its equally possible the information was given as she had yet to 
make a decision about her investment. Im therefore not persuaded the contents of the 
envelope are material.
Mr R has made much of Skipton not taking up his offer to have the envelope examined 
forensically. The production of such a pack of information will necessarily involve many 
people, from the producers of the paper used, to the many staff that will have handled the 
packs in them being put together or making their way to branch. No doubt the pack has also 
been handled by a number of people since being given to Mrs R  by family members and 
the police etc. Although not an expert in such matters, it seems to me that any evidence that 
might have been available is likely to have been tainted. And if this was a valid line of 
enquiry then Im surprised the police didnt pursue it.I would add, if only for the sake of completeness, that even had Skipton agreed to such a 
measure  if Mr and Mrs R needed its agreement  it isnt clear how this would have 
supported their version of events. The existence of a staff members DNA would only be 
evidence that they had touched the envelope at some point in time, not that the same staff 
member (or another) had accepted a deposit of £15,000 from Mrs R on 29 August 2015.
Mr and Mrs Rs submissions around the existence of a receipt also appear to have changed 
over time. In an email to the branch on 11 March 2016, Mr R says the receipt handed to his 
wife by the female member of staff cant be found. And on 23 March 2016, Mrs R wrote to 
Skipton confirming that members of their family had seen both receipts  that given to Mr R 
and to Mrs R for the ISA deposits. Mr R met with Skipton in July 2018 and during 
discussions it was confirmed that Mrs R asked for a receipt for her deposit and was provided 
with a handwritten one.
A handwritten receipt might go some way to explaining why there is no computer recorded 
receipt. But it doesnt explain why on 3 October 2021, Mr R says:
Their evidence was fully validated by three police officers, and backed by my two 
other children, a senior  bank official and a tax inspector. They discovered amongst 
our papers that we had not been given a receipt or the ISA certificate that my wife 
had paid for.
Either Mrs R was provided with a hand-written receipt which was seen by family members, 
and had since been mislaid, or they werent provided with one at all. It doesnt seem to me 
that both can be right. I therefore dont find their testimony about the existence of a receipt  
or not  to be reliable.
On 19 September 2015, Skiptons records show that two ISAs were opened online  
although they arent considered open until they are funded. These ISA accounts ended 141 
and 155. Later that same day, a call was made to Skipton about difficulties in making a 
payment to the account. I have listened to that call and set out some extracts below:

Caller: I have a problem, Ive been trying to open a new ISA, er, with the Skipton, 
erm, involving £15,000 deposit.

Caller: Everything went relatively smoothly until the end. I have a problem now with 
my wifes debit card. 

Caller: Yeah, just a minute, Ive opened a cash ISA, my wife has not. This is a new 
one so we need to fill in a form. 
Mr R has cast doubt on whether the caller was him and said it could have been one of his 
sons, who he says sound like him. Conversely, he has also said if this was him, he wasnt in 
the right frame of mind, having received a medical diagnosis and so weight shouldnt be 
placed on what was said.
I have listened to the whole call. I accept the possibility the caller might not be Mr R. But I 
dont find that the most likely explanation. The person calling refers to opening an account 
for his wife. If the person calling was someone other than Mr R, then they mispresented 
who they were, both about their relationship with the account holder  Mrs R  and their 
relationship with Skipton. On balance, I find it more likely than not, that it was Mr R that 
made the call.
I accept Mr R had recently received a diagnosis and was unwell at the time. But I dont think 
I could reasonably ignore that he was very lucid and clear during the call and understood what needed to happen to fund Mrs Rs new ISA. And I find his submission during the call 
that his wife hadnt opened a new cash ISA to be persuasive evidence to take into account 
when deciding whether anything went wrong on 29 August 2015. After all, the call only took 
place three weeks after the visit to Skiptons branch. This call, along with the product 
information Mrs R was given, indicates that she did not open a cash ISA three weeks earlier, 
but was yet to make a decision about her investment.
Following this call, £15,000 was deposited into an ISA account opened on 19 September 
2015. That money was derived from a recently matured bond.
Mr R has sought to rely on a letter sent by Mrs R to Skipton on 14 November 2015 as 
clearing up the issue of them forgetting they hadnt made an earlier ISA application. He also 
says its clear the ISA account was changed to a bond because they were well aware Mrs R 
already had an ISA.
I have considered the content of the letter sent on 14 November 2015 carefully. But I dont 
think it supports their version of events in the way they think it does. The letter says:
On reviewing the relevant papers, I find that I could not invest £15,000 in the above 
ISA Bond  the pay-out from another organisation did not, as I thought, come from an 
existing ISA.
Could you therefore please redirect the £15,000 into a two year 1.8 percent E-bond?
Contrary to Mr Rs submissions there is nothing in this letter that indicates Mrs R wanted to 
change her investment because she had already fully funded a new cash ISA for the tax- 
year. Rather, she asked for it to be changed as the money wasnt derived from an ISA, 
something that was required under the subscription rules when transferring money into an 
ISA. I therefore place little weight on this letter, as it doesnt shed any light, one way or other, 
on whether Mrs R took out an ISA on 29 August 2015 with Skipton.
Mr R has also drawn a layout of the branch in support of their version of events. However, 
Im mindful, and they acknowledge, that the floorplan as drawn doesnt represent the actual 
layout of the branch in question. So I do think that calls into question the accuracy of their 
recollections. But even if their floor plan was accurate, I dont think that would advance their 
case. They were existing Skipton account holders and came to the branch in question as 
there isnt one local to where they reside. And Mr R did open an ISA that day in branch so 
would have known the layout in any event.
Overall, taking everything into account Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence for me 
to reasonably conclude that Mrs R did deposit £15,000 with Skipton on 29 August 2015. It 
follows therefore, that I dont find Skipton has lost this money, either as a result of a mistake 
or error, or something more sinister.
Finally, there are a couple of additional points I wish to respond to.
Mr R has argued strongly that I ought to accept that the police found them credible. That 
may be so, but Mr and Mrs R acknowledge the police also found Skiptons staff credible. 
And just because the police found Mr and Mrs R credible, that doesnt mean Im required to 
find in their favour. In saying that, Im particularly mindful of the letter the police sent to Mr R 
on 28 June 2017, and which he sent to us by email on 28 August 2019. This letter says:
In relation to your version of events for this incident, you have asked for me to give 
an opinion on the credibility of this. As a police service, we clearly have to remain 
impartial in regards to commenting on the evidence we collect. We cannot personally put any subjective weight behind any evidence that we obtain as we run the risk of 
affecting future investigations i.e. not being shown to be completely impartial.
After meeting with you in person, reviewing the evidence you have given us and 
discussing your chain of events, we have no reason to discredit the version of events 
you have given us. However, we cannot say this has greater credibility should it 
be compared to any other version of events that occurred. [my emphasis].
So whilst the police did find Mr and Mrs Rs version of events credible, the police also said 
their version of events didnt have greater credibility than any other. I believe its this 
information that Mr R says he hasnt had sight of  but as mentioned this was sent to us by 
him. If its different information Mr R thinks the police have provided, then I ask him to let me 
know in response to this provisional decision.
Mr R said my previous colleague coached Skipton when he referred to case law, which 
might have meant Skipton wouldnt have been liable for staff actions. We have an 
inquisitorial rather than an adversarial remit at the ombudsman service and we are required 
under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to take the law into account when 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. It seems to me thats what the previous 
ombudsman had rightly done when referring to specific case law.
Mr R has also referred to the police sending their file of information to the FCA and the FCA 
saying they had done the right thing in reporting the matter to the police. That the FCA 
endorsed that action doesnt mean a crime has actually been committed nor does it compel 
me to uphold the complaint; its prudent for anyone that thinks a crime has been committed 
to report that. And its typical for police to provide information to the regulator when an 
allegation of a crime has been made and investigated against a regulated business. So this 
action in and of itself is not persuasive evidence that would lead me to conclude Skipton did 
something wrong.
Skipton made an offer of £7,500 to resolve this complaint. As Im not minded to uphold it, I 
dont require it to make that payment. If Mr and Mrs R now wish to accept it, they will need to 
contact Skipton directly to find out if its still open for acceptance.
Skipton hasnt replied to my provisional decision, so I assume it has nothing further to add. 
Mr R has replied. He initially said wed quoted from a police report about the police not 
knowing how the money had left the branch  implying that it had entered it. However, Mr R 
now accepts neither of the ombudsmen made such a quote, but rather its the letter I have 
referred to above, that Mr R was referring to (that of 28 June 2017). Mr R has been provided 
with a copy of that letter, and the police report that we obtained as part of our investigation. 
Mr R doesnt accept the provisional findings. In summary, he has said:
The police notes were clear that this was a crime confirmed and throughout the 
police saw the event as theft and Mrs R as the victim. They question why the 
ombudsman held back this authoritative material which totally undermines the 
provisional conclusions. Three officers found them credible. 
The police notes suggest it was a good idea to have a joint meeting with Skipton at 
which they almost certainly would have been able to identify the lady who gave Mrs 
R the dummy package.  
The dummy material was fresh and would have been handled by very few Skipton 
employees and what the ombudsman says on this is technically mistaken. This is 
another example of the ombudsman uncritically accepting a Skipton assertion just as 
the ombudsman did with the later clerical error. He provided evidence that his wife acted to quickly put this right  evidence which the ombudsman appears to discount 
or ignore. 
His sons testimony was accepted by the police, and the investigator who found in 
their favour quoted the police as believing them. 
Mr R thinks the letter of 28 June 2017 was issued while the matter was still sub 
judice at the Financial Conduct Authority, and they think the police thought the 
regulator would mount a civil action. He says presumably the police considered it 
improper to come out with their crime confirmed verdict while the case was still live. 
They dont accept the provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before I have summarised the points made, but I have read and considered all of Mr Rs 
responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, I havent been persuaded to alter my 
provisional findings. 
Mr R has queried why the authoritative police report hadnt been disclosed to them 
previously. Mr and Mrs R are entitled to see the information we have relied on in reaching 
our views and decisions. However, neither I, the previous ombudsman nor the investigator 
relied on this document when reaching the outcomes we did; put simply, it wasnt material to 
the outcome we reached. 
I fully accept and understand that Mr R feels differently and has made several arguments in 
relation to that. But I was aware of this report and its content when reaching my provisional 
findings. None of the arguments that Mr R has now made, have caused me to revise them. 
Mr R has referred to the police referring to this as theft and that Mrs R was a victim. But 
that is simply police vernacular for the events described and reported to them. Im not 
persuaded this means the police have concluded that Mrs Rs money has been stolen. 
Indeed, Mr R will know, having read the report himself, that the police thought they needed 
to consider withdrawing from the investigation and that the matter needed to be reviewed by 
the FCA as they were unsure it was criminal offence, more a procedural error. And as he is 
aware, the police filed the matter pending further information coming to light. Im not 
persuaded the use of police phraseology, in and of itself, should be read to mean anything in 
relation to the missing money. 
Mr R has also referred to the police recording that this was a crime confirmed. But having 
considered the document, he has taken that excerpt out of context. Its clear that part of 
document is for the polices internal reporting only and was one of a number of options 
available to select from. How the police internally record the matter reported to them has no 
material bearing on my consideration.  Even if I agreed with Mr Rs point, which I make very 
clear here I dont, that wouldnt advance this case, in any event.  Thats because, and as the 
police have recorded, there is no evidence linking a particular suspect to the case  whether 
thats a member of Skiptons staff or someone else.   
I have considered Mr Rs comments about the letter of 28 June 2017. But I cant ignore that 
the police said, in writing, that they couldnt say Mr and Mrs Rs version of events had any 
greater credibility than any other version of events. Im not persuaded the matter was still 
live at the time as Mr R suggests. This letter was from the police notifying them the matter 
was being filed. And Mr R will know from the police information he was given that the FCA 
had said as early as November 2016 that it wasnt something it would deal with. That was 
over six months before the letter was sent. Im aware that the police accepted Mr and Mrs Rs sons testimony. Im also aware the 
investigator referred to the police believing them. But when a matter is referred to an 
ombudsman, it is considered afresh. An ombudsman isnt bound by the findings of an 
investigator or anyone else. And Im mindful that their son didnt actually enter the branch 
with them, so cant speak to what happened inside, one way or the other.
Mr R has also said I have discounted or ignored Mrs Rs attempts to quickly put right a 
clerical error in relation to the ISA taken out in September 2015. The content of my 
provisional findings shows that I havent ignored the arguments made or discounted them. 
Rather I didnt find them persuasive for the reasons given. And I stand by those reasons. 
Mr R said the dummy material was fresh and handled by very few Skipton employees. But I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence in support of his comments  how does he know only 
a few people touched the material? I remain of the view, that even had the material been 
tested, and even had that identified that a particular member of staff had handled the 
envelope, that still wouldnt be persuasive evidence that the same member of staff had 
accepted a £15,000 deposit from Mrs R. And I would still question why, if that was a valid 
line of enquiry, the police didnt pursue it. 
Overall, having considered the matter very carefully, including the responses to my 
provisional findings, I dont uphold this complaint. My findings remain that Im not persuaded 
there is sufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude Mrs R deposited £15,000 with 
Skipton on 29 August 2015. It follows that I dont find Skipton lost the money, either as the 
result of an error or mistake, or something more sinister. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman