DRN-4236369
The complaint
Ms H complains about how ManyPets Ltd (ManyPets) communicated with her about options 
when her pet insurance policy came up for renewal.
References to ManyPets include their agents.
This decision only covers Ms Hs complaint made to this service in April 2023, following 
ManyPets final response issued in October 2022. That response also included reference to 
a previous complaint about communication in March 2022 and ManyPets final response 
issued in April 2022. This decision doesnt cover the issues raised in the latter complaint 
(and ManyPets response).
What happened
Ms H had a pet insurance policy through ManyPets covering her dog. The policy was due for 
renewal in October 2022 and about a month before Ms H received a renewal notice. The 
monthly premium was £105.43 (compared to £68.96 the previous year) and the excess on 
claims was £69. Ms H recalled phoning ManyPets to discuss renewal options that might 
reduce the premium (as the renewal documents didnt contain options). ManyPets sent Ms H 
renewal options shortly before the renewal date, but in the same template and format as 
other communications. 
Ms H emailed ManyPets to ask why the renewal options (appearing to be standard) werent 
those shed discussed over the phone. Ms H had asked for those detailed options to be sent 
to her in writing so she could consider them further. Ms H received a response from 
ManyPets, but in a format she didnt find easy to understand nor to relate them to what she 
had previously been told over the phone. She also wanted to know the impact of varying 
(increasing) the level of excess under the policy. ManyPets responded with several options 
for the policy excess (one including a 20% co-payment on each claim).The policy was then 
renewed, on the same basis as before.
Ms H was unhappy at how ManyPets had communicated the policy options (and responded 
to her queries) before the policy was renewed on the same basis as before. So, she 
complained to ManyPets. ManyPets didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they 
referred to Ms Hs emails in October 2022 asking about the policy limit for vet fees  and the 
impact of changing excess levels under the policy. ManyPets also referred to a response to 
Ms Hs emails (clarifying the policy limit and the impact of varying the policy excess) sent the 
day after Ms Hs emails. As ManyPets had provided the information before the renewal date 
of the policy (and Ms H hadnt responded) they couldnt [retrospectively] amend the policy 
until the next scheduled renewal date (October 2023).
Ms H then complained to this service. She said ManyPets knew she wanted to reduce the 
monthly cost of the policy, but because she hadnt taken any action, her policy had renewed 
on the same terms, and she couldnt make any changes to the policy. She said she could 
potentially have opted for changes to her policy that would potentially have saved her 
between £40 and £50 a month on her premiums. She wanted ManyPets to present the 
policy options in a format she could readily understand and to be given the choice to opt for 
changes to her policy without affecting the continuance of her policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding ManyPets didnt have to do anything 
further. The investigator noted the policy renewal notification was sent 28 days before the 
policy renewal date, including the monthly premium. Ms H contacted ManyPets five days 
before the policy renewal date to discuss policy options. Quotations were generated from the 
discussion and sent to Ms H by email shortly after the call (the same day). Ms H replied with 
two emails, querying the policy limit on vet fees and requesting options for the level of policy 
excess. ManyPets responded to both emails the following day. The investigator thought the 
email made clear the alternative quotes and the impact of varying the policy excess. And 
there was no evidence of Ms H responding after this date, the policy auto renewed on the 
existing terms.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, she said she didnt think the information sent by ManyPets 
was clear. And ManyPets hadnt complied with several of the FCA principles governing how 
a financial services business should conduct business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether ManyPets have acted fairly towards Ms H. 
The key issue in Ms Hs complaint is the way in which ManyPets communicated the options 
for her policy following the renewal notice issued in September 2022. Ms H says the options 
werent presented in a form she could readily understand, and it was clear she wanted to 
reduce the cost of the policy (the monthly premiums). ManyPets say the options were 
discussed in detail over the phone when Ms H contacted them, and they sent her quotes 
generated from the discussion by email later the same day. And when Ms H raised queries 
about the policy limit on vet fees and the impact of varying the policy excess, they responded 
the following day (before the policy renewal date).
In considering the issues, Ive looked at the sequence of events. ManyPets sent the renewal 
notice in September 2022, 28 days before the policy was due to (auto) renew. Ive not seen 
any evidence to indicate Ms H contacted ManyPets before the call she made in October 
2022, five days before the policy renewal date. I havent been provided with a recording of 
the call, but from what Ms H and ManyPets have told us, it seems a number of options were 
discussed in detail during the call. This is what Id expect to happen where a policyholder 
wants to discuss options to change the policy at renewal (and in Ms Hs case, looking to 
reduce the monthly premium, which had increased from £68.96 to £105.43 at renewal). 
Ive also seen the email sent to Ms H shortly after the call, with quotes generated from the 
discussion. There are three monthly premiums quoted, which appear to reflect alternative 
levels of cover available as options. They include the level of cover Ms H was on (monthly 
premium £105.43 and vet fee limit of £15,000) and two other levels of cover (with lower limits 
on vet fees  a monthly premium of £97.64 for a limit of £7,000 and a monthly premium of 
£53.53 for a £3,000 limit). Looking at the email, the information is clear on the premium level 
and the associated policy limit on vet fees. And alternative levels of cover are a standard 
feature of pet insurance policies more generally, and a way of obtaining different (lower) 
levels of premium. 
Having reached this conclusion, Ive noted Ms H replied, first to query the limit on vet fees for 
the highest level of cover (she thought it was £20,000 rather than £15,000). And second, to 
ask about the impact of varying the level of excess under the policy. I can see ManyPets responded the following day. First, to confirm the policy limit on vet fees was £15,000 (not 
£20,000). And second, to set out the impact on monthly premium of increasing the excess 
for Ms Hs current level of cover (from £69) to, respectively: £99 (premium reduces to 
£102.35); £130 (reduction to £99.79); £160 (reduction to £97.13); and to £160 with a 20% 
co-payment on claims (reduction to £77.70).
I think the email is clear on both queries raised by Ms H. It also clarifies the excess is only 
deducted from the first claim made each policy year, as well as explaining what the 20% co-
payment means. The email also offers to discuss the impact of varying the excess for the 
two alternative levels of cover mentioned in the initial email sent after the call.
Ive seen no evidence to indicate Ms H responded to the second email, so the policy auto 
renewed four days later (as both the email and the renewal notice indicated it would). 
That being the case, Ive concluded ManyPets acted fairly and reasonably in their 
communication to Ms H, setting out the ways in which she could reduce the monthly 
premium  firstly by varying the level of cover under the policy. And secondly by varying the 
excess (and co-payment). 
Ive also concluded the information was clear and readily understandable.  
While Ive reached these conclusions, Ive also considered the specific point raised by Ms H 
about ManyPets not complying with several FCA principles and other requirements. Taking 
the points highlighted by Ms H in her response to our investigators view in turn, I think 
ManyPets had communicated the price to you in a way that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. Nor do I think the information provided by ManyPets on price was misleading 
(not allowing her to make an informed choice). Or, on the issue of Restricted Choice, Ms H 
could have chosen not to renew the policy (and change insurers) if she wasnt happy with 
the premium in the renewal notice (or any other terms and conditions). 
And on the FCA principles, Ive not seen anything to indicate ManyPets hasnt conducted its 
business with integrity; with skill, care and diligence; not paid due regard to the interests of 
their customers or treated them unfairly; or not paid due regard to the information needs of 
their clients or not communicated information in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman