DRN-2836056
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim and voided a caravan 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C insured a caravan on a policy underwritten by Aviva. Where I refer to Aviva in this 
decision, this includes its agents and representatives. 
The circumstances of this claim are well known to both parties, but Ill summarise them 
briefly:
The caravan was stolen and Mr C made a claim on the policy.
After undertaking enquiries into the claim, Aviva declined cover and voided the 
policy. It said that when he took out the policy, a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
hadnt been disclosed. If it had been, it said it would not have sold the policy.
Mr C was unhappy with this and complained to Aviva. When it rejected the complaint, 
he approached our service.
Our investigator didnt consider that Aviva had done anything wrong. As Mr C didnt 
accept this, he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose County Court Judgments.
Ive looked at the schedule of insurance sent to Mr C which contained details of the policy 
and a number of declaration questions with answers based on information hed provided.
Among the declaration questions was one which said Have you or any other person to 
whom this insurance will apply ever been subject to any declaration of bankruptcy, 
involved in a company insolvency or liquidation or had any County Court Judgments 
registered against you? This was answered No. There was also a declaration which said I 
confirm I have read the Declaration Statement and have provided honest, truthful and 
complete answers to the Declaration Questions; I accept and understand that withholding or 
providing incorrect information may invalidate my insurance cover and any claims may be 
declined.
Mr Cs wife had four undischarged CCJs registered against her at the time that the policy 
was taken out. Mr C doesnt dispute that he was aware of this. Its reasonable to say that his 
wife, who also had access to and use of the caravan, would be considered to be a person to 
whom this insurance will apply.
I know Mr C says that a credit check was carried out in order for him to secure the finance to 
pay the premium. But this was arranged with a broker, not Aviva. The obligation to disclose 
the CCJs when taking out the insurance, when the question was asked, was Mr Cs. The fact 
that finance was given to pay for the insurance doesnt affect the obligation to disclose 
information when asked to by the insurer. The eligibility criteria for finance (provided by a 
third party) will be different to the underwriting criteria set by Aviva.
Im satisfied that a clear question was asked of Mr C, and that based on the question asked, 
Mr C should have answered yes, and then given details of the CCJs registered against his 
wife. I cant agree he took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
 
Aviva has provided evidence from its underwriting criteria that if Mr C had notified it of the 
undischarged CCJs, it would not have offered the policy.
 
This means Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Aviva has said Mr Cs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, because it says Mr C 
was aware of the CCJs, and either deliberately, or recklessly, failed to disclose this to Aviva.
I agree that Aviva could fairly conclude Mr Cs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless 
because he was aware of the CCJs, and the question was clear in asking about this. And it 
seems that hes aware of the impact of CCJs on the eligibility for financial products as hes 
said that a credit check which was carried out to finance the insurance didnt lead to any 
concerns. 
As Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Aviva can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In the event that a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, the insurer is 
entitled to void the policy and retain any premiums paid. This is what Avivas done here. As 
Ive concluded it could fairly conclude that Mr Cs misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, its actions in respect of Mr Cs policy were reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 Ben Williams
Ombudsman