DRN-3878451
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited didnt tell him about an outstanding amount 
that was due when a car insurance policy was cancelled and sent the debt to a recovery 
agent.
What happened
Mr H insured a car with Tesco. When the car was damaged in an accident and written off, 
Tesco sent a letter to Mr H saying that if a replacement vehicle wasnt added to the policy 
within 90 days, the policy would be cancelled.
Tesco cancelled the policy 90 days later as no replacement car had been added. It wrote to 
Mr H to confirm this and outlined that the amount hed paid to that point was less than the 
total cost of cover and requested payment of the outstanding sum. When Mr H didnt pay the 
requested amount, Tesco passed it to a debt recovery agent. 
Mr H complained to Tesco and then to our service. He said hed spoken to Tesco about the 
cancellation of the policy and during that call hadnt been told there would be an outstanding 
amount to pay if he didnt add a replacement car. He was also unhappy that the debt had 
been passed to a recovery agent so quickly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr Hs car was written off, Tesco wrote to him saying he had 90 days to add a 
replacement vehicle to the policy, otherwise the policy would be cancelled. It also wrote to 
him to repeat this, saying that if no car was added within 7 days, the policy would be 
cancelled. Neither letter referenced the repayment of any outstanding amounts. 
Im aware Mr H says he didnt receive these letters, but Tesco has provided evidence 
showing they were sent. Our position is that if evidence can be provided to show an insurer 
has sent a letter outlining its position, thats acceptable. Theres no obligation on Tesco to 
show that Mr H received, or read the letters.
Mr H always intended to cancel the policy. He didnt want to add a replacement car. 
Between the two letters Ive mentioned above, Mr H spoke with Tesco over the phone. 
During the call it was confirmed that the policy would be cancelled if Mr H didnt add a 
replacement car by the end of the 90 days. 
I know Mr H is unhappy that during that call, no mention was made that when the policy 
cancelled, hed be liable for the outstanding amount. I appreciate it may have been 
preferable for that to happen, but I dont think theres any obligation on Tesco to have told Mr 
H this during the call. Put simply, the amount would be payable whether Mr H was told this 
or not in the call, and a letter was sent to him after the cancellation of the policy detailing 
how this amount had been reached. I cant say Mr H would have acted differently if hed 
been told about the outstanding amount (for example by cancelling the policy at the time of 
the call). I dont think Mr H has been adversely affected by this not being discussed during 
the phone call.
If Mr G had cancelled the policy during the 90 days, Im satisfied the amount payable by Mr 
H would have been the same. This is because, having made a claim, the full premium was 
due. The outstanding amount requested by Tesco was to pay the remainder of that full 
premium as Mr H had been paying in monthly instalments and the amount hed paid to that 
point was less than the total. 
When Tesco wrote to Mr H to confirm the policy had been cancelled, it detailed the amount 
that was outstanding and how that had been calculated. The letter also detailed that if this 
wasnt paid within 7 days, it would be passed to a debt recovery agent.
Thats what Tesco has done. When the outstanding amount wasnt paid within 7 days of the 
letter, it was passed to a recovery agent. I know Mr H feels this was too soon but its not for 
us to tell Tesco how it handles debt recovery as thats a commercial decision. Im satisfied 
that it acted in accordance with the letter it sent Mr H and the letter had clearly outlined the 
amount due and that it would be passed to a debt recovery agent in the event of it not being 
paid within the specified period. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman