DRN-3190168
The complaint
Mrs T complains that the advice given by Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
(CMIM) in relation to a Small Self Administered Scheme (SSAS) and the investment of her 
pension into a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG) was unsuitable 
for her.
What happened
In 2013, Mrs T says she was called by an unregulated firm, Your Choice Pensions Limited 
(YCP), who offered to review her existing pension provisions. She was 49 and only had one 
stakeholder pension policy with HSBC worth around £31,000. She had no other savings or 
investments and no previous investment experience. She had an outstanding mortgage of 
£80,000 and other debt of around £12,000.
She was given information about an oversea property investment with TRG to be made 
through a SSAS. Mrs T says she was persuaded by YCP this would provide better returns 
than her existing pension.
The SSAS was set up with Mrs T as the trustee and Cantwell Grove (CW) as the 
administrator.  
Mrs T signed CMIMs terms of business in January 2014 which confirmed that CMIM would 
provide her, in her capacity as trustee of the SSAS, with a letter of advice in relation to the 
TRG investment for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95). 
For reference, section 36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme 
such as a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the  
investment is satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection 
(1), so far as relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice 
required under this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
The terms of business clarified that:
CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, 
as it related to an unregulated investment.
It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other
than the Cape Verde investment.
No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial
circumstances was being given.
In February 2014, CG sent Mrs T an advice letter from CMIM on the proposed investment 
into the TRG investment. 
In March 2014, CG requested a transfer from Mrs Ts existing pension provider to the SSAS. 
In June 2014, Mrs T signed a form instructing CW to invest £20,000 into the TRG investment 
By signing the form she confirmed that:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter Central Markets
Investment Management Limited has produced in relation to the Cape Verde investment
opportunity. I believe Central Markets Investment Management Limited to be an 
appropriately qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in 
relation to the question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in terms of:
(a) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS; and
(b)the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the 
SSAS.
The same form included an option to invest in CMIMs DFM portfolio, but this was recorded 
as £0.
After lengthy anti-Liberation checks by HSBC, Mrs Ts pension transfer value of £31,425.39 
was eventually paid into the SSAS bank account in December 2014. £20,000 was invested 
into the TRG investment. A few months later she invested a further £6,150.
In 2019 Mrs T complained to CMIM about the advice she received. She said the SSAS and 
the TRG investment, which is now illiquid- had been unsuitable. The SSAS was only 
established to allow the TRG investment.
CMIM rejected the complaint. They said their advice was appropriate and compliant with 
PA95. They said they made it very clear in their advice letter that the TRG investment was 
not suitable for a cautious investor and provided risk warnings as well as pointing out the 
need for diversification of investments. The decision to invest was down to the trustee.   
Mrs T referred her complaint to this service and one of our investigators upheld her 
complaint. He said CMIM gave regulated advice and promoted the TRG investment, an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS), to Mrs T. He said CMIM should have 
been aware of the restrictions of promoting UCIS to retail customers like Mrs T. 
She thought CMIM had failed their high-level regulatory obligations of treating Mrs T fairly 
and acting in her best interest. She said CMIM should have provided a personal 
recommendation to Mrs T on the suitability of the investment. Mrs T was intending to invest 
most of her pension provisions into the TRG investment and investing such a large 
proportion in a single, high risk, unregulated scheme was plainly unsuitable. So CMIM 
should have recommended against this investment. The investigator thought if CMIM had 
advised Mrs T properly, she wouldnt have invested in TRG and so they should be 
compensating her for her losses. 
CMIM disagreed and responded by way of letters covering several complaints 
simultaneously. Ive considered all their submissions even though I wont repeat them in 
detail here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.CMIMs advice process
CMIM confirmed that they had an introducer agreement with YCP. They say they were first 
approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the process of establishing 
SSASs to invest in TRG. CMIM say their only financial benefit was the opportunity to 
promote their DFM service for the residual funds. 
CMIMs written advice took the form of a Dear trustee letter, which was general in nature 
and not addressed to a named recipient. These letters were provided to customers through 
CG and YCP. 
The Dear Trustee letter explained that YCP had asked CMIM to consider a number of 
specific investments and provide advice to customers as the trustees as to whether these 
investments were appropriate for their SSAS. It said the advice wasnt deemed to be 
regulated under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as the SSAS was not 
regulated by the FCA. It said:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel 
operator (Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and 
our conclusion is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of 
sensible diversification of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" 
strategy is planned in order to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group 
have cooperated with our research.
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK 
investor compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas 
investment have no such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen 
have been clearly documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value 
of any investment can fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not 
necessarily be considered as a liquid investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you 
need access to the capital at short notice or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not 
always be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent 
on occupancy demand, which cannot be guaranteed. Investments held overseas may have 
additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may impact on any returns when 
converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and commercial risk to the 
delivery and management of a property/resort. You may wish to take independent legal 
advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding 
according to an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss. You should 
ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles that 
where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should 
be held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for 
diversification carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property 
investment opportunities and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits 
of the proposed investment as against other such investment opportunities. If you still have 
any doubts we recommend that you seek independent financial advice
Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This 
is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as 
advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)CMIM said they didnt provide Mrs T with a personal recommendation. And I tend to agree. 
Their terms of business clearly stated they wouldnt be giving individual suitability 
advicewhich takes into account your personal financial circumstances and I think Mrs T 
would have been aware that she never met anyone from CMIM or that they hadnt explored 
her personal and financial circumstances. 
Without a personal recommendation, the suitability obligations set out in COBS 9 wouldnt 
apply here. However, CMIM still had regulatory obligations when giving their advice. 
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
Ive also considered other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9 as well as the restrictions to 
promotion of UCIS at 238 FSMA. CMIM has accepted the TRG investment appears to meet 
the legal definition of a collective investment scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following 
Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17). Although they admitted they didnt realise this at the 
time of the advice.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mrs T, ancillary to their advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of
FSMA. Applying the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs Dear Trustee letter
had the characteristics of an invitation, mainly because it seems YCP had already invited 
Mrs T to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went on to say this 
about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all 
the links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking 
to persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under 
s.21.
The FCA clarified this further at PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements 
of an invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or 
intent of leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it 
must seek, on its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. 
The objective test may be summarised as follows. 
Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances at the time the 
communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in
investment activity.
I dont dispute that YCP first promoted the TRG investment to Mrs T and I agree its likely 
YCP had persuaded her to invest before she received CMIMs advice.  However, this doesnt 
prevent CMIMs actions being an inducement too. Their Dear Trustee letter was clearly 
intended to lead trustees to invest in TRG. A reasonable conclusion to draw was that only 
trustees who were cautious and/or needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. 
And I think CMIM ought to have reasonably known this was an unlikely conclusion to draw 
for most of the recipients of their letter. I say this with view of the following:
the advice was being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term
no indication was given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious
definition. The letter also said that the more cautious the investor, the lesser amount 
of the holding should be in commercial property. So even if someone thought of 
themselves as fairly cautious, in my view the letter suggested an investment in TRG 
could still be appropriate as part of their portfolio.
CMIM suggested it was possible to mitigate the risks of TRG by diversifying with 
liquid assets. 
CMIM say the letter encouraged trustees to take independent regulated advice. However, 
whilst I appreciate they did tell trustees to seek independent advice if in doubt about your 
choice, I think it would have been reasonable for most trustees to infer from the letter that if 
they werent particularly cautious or needed their money in the short-term no further advice 
was needed. I also disagree with CMIMs apparent suggestion that setting out the risks of 
the TRG investments means the letter couldnt have been an inducement to invest.
CMIM argue YCP and CG had vested interests in trustees investing in TRG and they were 
the ones promoting it. However, CMIM also stood to gain from trustees choosing TRG as an 
investment as they could offer them to diversify their portfolios with CMIMs DFM service. I 
think CMIM would have been aware that if the investment in TRG was discouraged, it was 
unlikely trustees would use their DFM service.
Overall, I think the Dear Trustee letter inferred that whilst there were risks in TRG, if 
properly diversified the investment was appropriate for most. In my view the letters intent 
was to induce investment and Im satisfied a reasonable observer would regard the letter in 
this way. On the evidence provided Im satisfied CMIM promoted the TRG investment to Mrs 
T.
The fact that advice could also be a promotion was further confirmed on 1 January 2014 
when the FCA revised the list of exemptions allowing promotion of UCIS (by then included in 
a wider category of non-mainstream pooled investments) at COBS 4.12.4R. 
The new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a promotion where the communication 
met all of the following requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in relation
to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 read as follows: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or appointedrepresentative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation status, who has a
relevant business relationship with the firm.
The introducer agreement YCP had entered into with CMIM would always have made this 
exclusion unavailable (in effect because the introducer, rather than the trustee, was soliciting 
the advice). And CMIM also didnt give a personal recommendation. But what I consider 
relevant here is that the wording of the exclusion itself confirms that advice can also amount 
to a promotion  even where a third party had previously promoted the investment. That is 
what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment through their Dear 
Trustee letter.
CMIMs position that Mrs T paid no attention to the dear Trustee letter
CMIM say trustees wouldnt have taken much notice of their advice letter and only would 
have signed where they were told to by third parties. Their letter wouldnt have influenced 
their decision to invest.
However, whether Mrs T read the letter or not is in my view immaterial to whether CMIMs 
advice letter was also a promotion. Whether something counts as an inducement depends 
on the intent of the communication and how it would be regarded by a reasonable observer. 
I think it ought to have been clear to CMIM that the SSAS administrators would expect 
trustees to sign a confirmation that they had obtained and considered proper advice as 
required in section 36 of PA95. 
Their advice was a significant step in the investment process and they should have 
reasonably expected their advice to be considered by trustees. Their involvement as a 
regulated party and provider of advice legitimised the arrangement. And CMIM should have 
realised their advice was also an inducement which means they were promoting the 
investment as well as advising on it.
Did Mrs T qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
Mrs T unlikely qualified under the criteria set out in the in the FSMA (Promotion of Collective 
Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because she didnt appear to be a high net 
worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as required 
under the regulations). 
This leaves the range of exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.4R, none of which apply to Mrs T 
in my view.
The only conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully promoted the
TRG investment to Mrs T as part of their advice, in contravention of s238 of FSMA. 
Moreover CMIM ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the 
investment to Mrs T previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they 
were themselves unregulated and/or because it appears unlikely they could rely on a valid 
exemption.
What should CMIM have done instead?
CMIM had chosen to advise on TRG, so it ought to have established whether or not it was a
UCIS  as if it was, then they (and others) were promoting it in breach of FSMA.
They attended meetings with the other parties involved where a whole sales and marketing 
strategy was apparently discussed to attract new clients to invest in TRG. Yet CMIM now 
say it should have been obvious to CG that those clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. They also say CMIMs name was being used to give the 
arrangements an air of credibility. These arguments demonstrate why CMIM shouldnt have 
got involved in inducing Mrs Ts investment into TRG at all. They knew that none of the other 
parties in the transaction were regulated by the FCA and they could not, as a result, expect 
them to share its duty of care to clients.
I have significant concerns about the arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant 
it could only track who the end recipients of  their dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG 
were if YCP remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it 
later heard from them because theyd signed up for their DFM service (which didnt happen 
here). That calls into question whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3 (take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems). 
They didnt have enough oversight of who would receive their advice and left it to 
unregulated parties-who they should have known had an interest in trustees investing in 
TRG- to control and influence the advice process. The trustees here were often 
inexperienced investors with very modest pension funds and who the TRG investment was 
unsuitable for.
I also cant see how it was possible for CMIM to give trustees proper advice which enabled 
them to make investment decisions for their SSAS (as set out in CMIMs terms of business) 
if it wasnt personalised to their specific SSAS and considering its circumstances and 
objectives.  
As set out at the beginning of this decision the FCAs Principles required CMIM amongst 
other things to treat Mrs T fairly and pay due regard to her interests. And they had to take 
care when formulating their advice to her.
In observance of these principles and rules, in my view there were only really two options 
CMIM had in this situation:
1) Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore
not come into contact with retail clients like Mrs T at all; or
2) Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of ways in order to ensure that it was complying 
with the principles and rules. This would have included:
Taking reasonable care to make a recommendation to Mrs T, which was
tailored to her specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard
to her best interests and treat her fairly.
Being mindful that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not
amount to promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
Issuing that recommendation to Mrs T directly, rather than supplying it to YCP
(where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach Mrs T, if the
advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing). 
I considered what consequences these alternative actions would have had. If CMIM declined 
to get involved or warned that it would need to advise Mrs T, and other investors of a similar 
background to her, not to invest in TRG, its possible that YCP would have sought a 
relationship with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome.However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mrs T was required to take
couldnt be given by just any adviser. And evidently the SSAS administrator or the other 
parties involved, presumably in not wanting to jeopardise the successful operation of the 
SSASs being established, were keen to ensure that this legislation was observed. 
Section 36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given by a
person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of that Act
(prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the appropriate
knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. 
In this context I think its also reasonable to expect any regulated adviser to be as mindful of 
the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So I would have expected any 
regulated adviser to consider the position on promotion and the consequences for that of 
giving any advice in favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
Ive also taken into account that CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising
Mrs T at all, but it chose to give advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held
to the standard of the proper personal recommendation that it should have given to her to
satisfy the regulators expectations.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It
ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up a significant portion of a SSAS 
was plainly unsuitable the majority of retail investors, including Mrs T. There was nothing 
about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, offshore property development subject to a 
variety of currency, counterparty, construction and occupancy risks  to counter that 
presumption of unsuitability. 
It should have been apparent that Mrs T couldnt afford to take the speculative risk investing 
nearly half of her pension provisions in TRG. And Mrs T is unlikely to have had the 
experience to fully understand the risks to her pension. 
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being introduced to Mrs T by other parties 
was in order to invest in TRG. So I need to consider how Mrs T would likely have acted, if
CMIM had advised against the TRG investment. 
Would Mrs T have invested in TRG anyway?
CMIM didnt provide Mrs T with the advice to open a SSAS and transfer her pension. It 
seems that Mrs T had already set up the SSAS and completed the transfer paperwork 
before she received CMIMs advice. And I think its likely YCP would have focussed on the 
positives of the TRG investment. However, I dont think Mrs T was at a point where she couldnt have changed her mind about the transfer of her pension and the investment in 
TRG. 
If CMIM had clearly told her that the TRG investment was unsuitable for her explaining that 
this was a specialist high-risk investment which meant there was a real risk of losing large 
parts of her pension and the regulator deemed this sort of investment unsuitable for 
inexperienced investors like her, I think its likely she would have listened. 
Of course I dont know for certain what Mrs T would have done. And I appreciate it can be 
difficult sometimes to backtrack from a planned action. However, Ive considered that Mrs T 
was cold called by YCP and doesnt appear to have had a longstanding relationship with 
them. On balance, I think if Mrs T had received a clear recommendation from an 
independent regulated financial adviser like CMIM not to proceed as it wasnt in her best 
interest to do so, she would have decided against the transfer and investment into TRG.
MRs T received CMIMs advice In February 2014 and the pension was only transferred in 
December. So I think there would have been sufficient time for Mrs T to change her mind 
and stop her pension being transferred to a SSAS if CMIMs advice had been different.
Involvement of other parties
CMIM feels its unfair that they should compensate Mrs T for all her losses when they 
werent involved in the pension switch advice and initial promotion of TRG. They also say the 
CG were heavily involved in the transaction and should be held responsible for any losses. 
Im aware that other parties were involved here. And I appreciate they might have 
contributed to the situation Mrs T now finds herself in. However, I can only consider the 
complaint brought to this service which is the one against CMIM. As explained in this 
decision I think CMIM didnt act in line with their regulatory obligations and if they had done 
so, Mrs T likely would not have transferred her existing pension to the SSAS and invested in 
TRG. 
So Im satisfied CMIM could have prevented Mrs Ts losses if they had advised her properly 
notwithstanding what happened before or after they advised her. 
So in the circumstances I think its fair and reasonable that they compensate her for her 
losses in full. If CMIM feel that other parties actions have contributed to these losses, they 
are free to pursue this directly with them once the paid the full redress to Mrs T.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs T should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been properly advised.
I take the view that Mrs T would have remained with her previous pension provider (HSBC), 
however I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy 
would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, 
taking this into account and given Mrs T' circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must CMIM do?
To compensate Mrs T fairly, CMIM must:
Compare the performance of Mrs T' investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous pension provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
CMIM should add interest as set out below.
CMIM should pay into Mrs T' pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CMIM is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs T' pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs T' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs T 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mrs T £300 for the distress caused by experiencing losses to her pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CMIM deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs T how much has been taken off. CMIM should give Mrs T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs T asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SSAS Still exists 
but illiquidNotional 
value from 
HSBC
If this cant 
be obtained, 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return
Index.Date of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
CMIM should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount CMIM pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If CMIM is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. CMIM may require that Mrs T provides an 
undertaking to pay CMIM any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. CMIM will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the
TRG investment, or agree a value with the SSAS administrators (which is more than nil 
value), even if its not actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to 
be no market for the investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion 
of someone who is not actually prepared to (or unable to) buy the investment from the 
SSAS. I also cannot anticipate whether TRG will be permitting changes of ownership 
because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to the extent that this is possible, 
if CMIM believes that the investment has value then it can benefit by buying the 
investment out of the SSAS.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mrs Ts losses. It is not my role 
to set the terms of the assignment and undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in 
achieving overall fairness for both parties.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs T's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. CMIM should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SSAS should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if CMIM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, CMIM will need to 
determine a fair value for Mrs T' investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
The SSAS only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SSAS to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by CMIM taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mrs T can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If CMIM is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mrs T an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the SSAS to be closed.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs T wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs T' circumstances and risk attitude.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mrs T in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
compensate Mrs T as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman