DRN-3381169
The complaint
Mr K and Ms K are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
declined a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K, Ms K and their family were due to go on holiday to an island Ill refer to as T in 
October 2020. They took out an insurance policy to cover their trip in March 2020. 
Unfortunately, Mr K and Ms K didnt travel as one of their party had to self-isolate and 
because the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) was advising against 
travel to T. They claimed on their travel insurance policy. 
Chaucer declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for 
cancellation in such circumstances. Ms K made a complaint to Chaucer, but they maintained 
their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Ms K made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr K and Ms Ks complaint. He 
didnt think that the policy documentation made it clear that Mr K and Ms K wouldnt have 
been covered if they had to cancel due to a change in FCDO advice. He upheld Mr K and 
Ms Ks complaint. 
Chaucer didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary they 
said: 
The investigators conclusions ignored the basic concepts of contract law and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was setting a dangerous precedent by retrospectively 
rewriting contracts because a consumer wasnt aware of what their policy covered
The policy operated on a specified perils basis  the reason for cancellation wasnt 
covered and that if Mr K and Ms K had wanted cover for changes in FDCO advice 
then they could have purchased a policy that offered such cover
The premium charged reflects the level of cover  insurance doesnt cover every 
eventuality. There was no significant imbalance because the policy covers specific 
risks and is priced accordingly. Many policies contain a similar exclusion   
It is irrelevant that the Insurance Product Information document (IPID) did not 
highlight the relevant exclusion. The exclusion was within the policy wording and the 
IPID does not supersede this
There is a responsibility on the consumer to read and understand the policy wording. 
So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 1 it says:
 What is not insured? 
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO 
have advised against all (but essential) travel. 
Page 20 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which Chaucer provides cover for 
cancellation or curtailment. These are:
The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) any person who you are travelling with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of
a treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service
attendance.
Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made
redundant).
You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed
Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave
cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation
or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, which occurred or
became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement of your trip or during
the course of your trip.
The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm,
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or
            theft.
In the general exclusions, on page 11, it says there is no cover for: 
Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Officer where you have travelled to a specific country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have 
advised against all (but essential) travel. 
Was it unreasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim?
 
I think its fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation and curtailment section of the policy because: 
Mr K and Ms K cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something 
that is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or 
listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr K and Ms K had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr K and Ms K  
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about 
the policy in a way thats easy to understand. I dont think it was made prominent in 
the IPID that cancellation claims due to FCDO advice against all but essential travel 
to a particular destination isnt included in the What is not insured section of the 
IPID. The IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be 
covered if they travel against FCDO advice  
Ive also taken into account the relevant law, including the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. Mr K and Ms K would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions 
in detail. And theyd have needed to cross refer between different sections of the 
policy in order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. The 
exclusion for travelling against FCDO advice is set out in a different section to the 
cancellation section of the policy and on different pages. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear to 
them in the circumstances of this case. I think that if it had been made clearer its 
most likely Mr K and Ms K would have taken out a policy which would have offered 
cover for cancellation in such circumstances. Such policies were widely available on 
the market at the relevant time 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr K and 
Ms K and Chaucer. I think its unlikely that Mr K and Ms K would have purchased the 
policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policyI accept that its not possible to list every insured peril and/or every possible 
exclusion. Ive also considered that its common for the cancellation and curtailment 
section of travel insurance policies to list the specific insured perils that are covered. 
However, the issue Im considering in this case is whether it was clearly signposted 
to Mr K and Ms K that there would be limited cover under the policy if they travelled 
against FCDO advice but theyd also not be covered if they had to cancel their trip 
because of FCDO advice changing between taking out the policy and the intended 
dates of travel, based on the policy documentation. And, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it was
Ive taken into account what Chaucer has said about Mr K and Ms K needing to read 
the full policy terms and conditions. But, even if theyd read the full policy terms, for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think it wouldve reasonably been clear to them 
what the impact of the exclusion was. I dont think that theyd have realised that there 
was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after theyd bought the 
policy but before they departed for their trip and they needed to cancel
Chaucer has also said that this decision sets a precedent. However, Ive considered 
the individual circumstances of this complaint and the particular terms and conditions 
of this policy. Having done so Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to uphold 
Mr K and Ms Ks complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.    
Putting things right
Im directing Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation and curtailment 
section of the policy. Chaucer should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr K and Ms Ks complaint against Chaucer Insurance Company Designated 
Activity Company and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman