DRN-2122262
The complaint
Mr C complains IG Markets Limited (the business) didnt provide the service it shouldve 
done. 
What happened
The business responded to the complaint setting out the five issues it identified Mr C was 
unhappy with. These were; SMS alerts not being sent on his ISA account when these were 
being sent on his spread betting account; a volume indicator not working on a chart he was 
viewing; being unable to access the platform on 24 February 2020; failure to trigger orders 
he placed for Microsoft and Alphabet; poor customer service as he has had difficulty 
speaking to someone who could deal directly with the problems and he didnt get a call back 
that he was promised.
In response the business said that it had forwarded the issue about SMS texting to the third-
party provider and awaited a response. It said the issue with the volume indicator was still 
being looked at but that this didnt affect his trading. It explained that there had been a 
platform outage on 24 February 2020 which had been explained to Mr C when he contacted 
the helpdesk. It pointed out that Mr C was able to make trades over the telephone or if had a 
query over his account and that this was made clear in the terms and conditions. 
The business explained that the trades in Microsoft and Alphabet hadnt been triggered 
because the markets didnt hit the level of his orders. It said that he had changed the price at 
which the trades would be placed for both trades and that the price didnt reach his amended 
price. In terms of the issue over customer service it explained it was unlikely that Mr C would 
be able to speak directly with someone who could deal with issues like the SMS texting or 
the volume button not working as these would be dealt with by those who wouldnt be 
customer facing. It did offer £50 for trouble and upset caused by a manager not calling Mr C 
back.
Mr C referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators considered it. Before she did 
so Mr C raised a further complaint point about difficulties using the platform on 16 March 
2020. The business agreed we could look at this, as well as the original complaint. It said 
that having investigated this Mr C had been able to access the platform and that the events 
on that date arose because of a margin call which led to it closing one of his positions as it 
was required to do when the equity fell below 50% of the requirement. 
The business also confirmed that the third-party provider for the SMS texts had found no 
issue with this and suggested the issue may be with Mr Cs provider. 
One of our investigators considered the complaints and, in summary, made the following 
findings:
The business had tested its SMS text alert system and although some alerts werent 
delivered it has been unable to find any problem at its end.
Its terms and conditions make it clear that electronic communication isnt always 
reliable and that it isnt liable if an electronic communication isnt received.
Text messages can fail for many different reasons and as the business hasnt shown 
any fault on its part, she cant find it has done anything wrong.
The business explained there had been an outage on 24 February 2020 when Mr C 
received an error message when trying to access his account and this was explained 
to him when he telephoned. Its agents were available to assist him on the telephone 
which is an alternative method of communication referred to in the terms and 
conditions if the usual method of communication isnt available.
The business have found no issue with their systems on 16 March 2020 when Mr C 
said he had trouble accessing his spread betting account, and its records show he 
did access his account that day.
Mr C was kept on hold for some time, but this was because the agent was checking 
his account to try and answer his query about when he couldnt locate some trades 
on his account  the agent explained the trades had closed and where he could see 
the transaction history.
Mr C had set trade levels for Alphabet and Microsoft which he amended. The trades 
werent triggered because the amended price he had set wasnt reached, so the 
business did nothing wrong.
The business offered £50 for trouble and upset because a manager didnt contact 
him about his concerns, and they shouldve done. This is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances.
Mr C responded and said that the SMS text alert was still not working. He said it works on 
his spread betting account but not his ISA account, so its nonsense for the business to 
suggest the problem is with the provider. 
Mr C said he accepted the investigators decision about the trades in Alphabet and Microsoft 
as he acknowledges this comes down to his word against that of the business.
Mr C said that the £50 the business had offered didnt cover the time he had spent 
constantly chasing it for a response with nothing happening and referring the matter to us. 
He said there was an ongoing issue with the SMS text service.
The business offered a solution to the SMS text issue involving using push notifications 
through the online app which Mr C tried and said worked. But he said he had ongoing issues 
with the businesss customer service which he set out. He said the £50 didnt scratch the 
surface of the hassle and loss caused by time spent on the phone.
The investigator explained that any additional issues Mr C had with the business needed to 
be raised as a separate complaint, so it had the opportunity of responding to this. She said 
the £50 it had offered for the complaint she had considered was reasonable. Mr C didnt 
agree and said that the subsequent issues he had referred to were part of the same 
complaint about poor customer service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Mr Cs various emails following receipt of the investigators opinion he appears to have 
largely accepted her findings but has asked for a review by an ombudsman on the basis that 
he had ongoing issues with the customer service from the business that have arisen after she gave her view which he considers to be part of his complaint and thinks should be 
considered by us.
The investigator explained that he needed to raise any new issues with the business first. I 
acknowledge that it allowed us to look at the platform issue of 16 March 2020 which was 
raised after we received the complaint. But this was before the investigator had started her 
investigation and provided her opinion.
Whilst I understand Mr Cs frustration, we cant consider issues that have not first been put 
to the business, so that it has the opportunity of investigating these and providing a 
response. The fact that all the problems he has referred to may come under the heading 
customer service doesnt mean they are one complaint. I cant make findings on customer 
service issues that were not part of the original complaint referred to us and where the 
business hasnt had the opportunity of investigating these and providing its response.
Going back to the issue that do form part of this complaint, although Mr C appears to have 
accepted the investigators findings  which findings I am in general agreement with - I think 
it is appropriate to make findings on these.
It isnt in dispute that some of the SMS text messages werent communicated on Mr Cs ISA 
account. But the businesss third-party provider didnt identify any problem with its service. 
And in the absence of any evidence that the problem with SMS texts is due to a failure on 
the part of the business Im unable to find it has done anything wrong. I note that this issue 
appears to have been resolved by Mr C taking up the businesss suggestion of using the 
push notification through its online app.
I would point out that the business doesnt guarantee access will always be possible through 
SMS texting or other electronic communication. There are going to be times when access, 
through electronic means, isnt possible. The businesss terms and conditions point this out 
as they state that no electronic communication is entirely reliable or always available and 
that the client acknowledges the inherent risk that communication by electronic means may 
not reach its destination. This isnt unusual for the type of service the business provides.
The business has explained that the problems Mr C had accessing the platform on 24 
February 2020 was the result of an outage. The investigator pointed out that the businesss 
terms and conditions specify that if the usual mode of communicating isnt available 
customers should use another acceptable means of communication such as the telephone. 
So, if Mr C wanted to trade or check something on his account he couldve done so.
The investigator said the evidence indicates Mr C did have access on 16 March 2020 The 
business have provided a screenshot showing he had access that day. The investigator 
noted the reason Mr C was kept on hold for some time in the subsequent telephone call was 
because the agent he spoke to was investigating why he couldnt see certain trades before 
explaining the trades were closed and where he could see the transaction history showing 
this. The business has explained the trades were closed because of its margin policy. The 
evidence doesnt show the business did anything wrong on the 16 March 2020.
Mr C has accepted the investigators finding about the trades he wanted to make in Alphabet 
and Microsoft but only on the basis it is his word against that of the business and he hadnt 
been able to provide evidence to support his complaint on that issue. The evidence I have 
seen from the business shows that for both trades he set the price he wanted to trade at, but 
then amended these and the amended price he set was never reached. So, this was the 
reason that trades werent made, not because the business did anything wrong. Mr C complained about not being able to speak to someone directly about issues he raised. 
The business has pointed out that the answers to some of the issues raised wouldnt be 
provided by customer facing staff. Where this wasnt the case, such as when Mr C queried 
why he couldnt see trades on 16 March 2016, the person he spoke to was able to deal with 
his query. In the circumstances Im not satisfied that the business did anything wrong in the 
way it communicated with him. It did pay him £50 for the trouble and upset caused by a 
manager not calling Mr C back when they shouldve done - which I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman