DRN-1786033
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2005. Mr G says Drive Motor Retail Limited trading as Drive Vauxhall mis-sold the 
PPI.
What happened
Mr G took out hire purchase agreement in 2005. At the same time Mr G was sold the PPI to 
protect his monthly repayments. The PPI could have paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the 
monthly loan repayment for up to 12 months per claim if Mr G could not work due to an 
accident or ill-health. In addition the policy included life cover and critical illness cover 
meaning the balance of the loan would be repaid if Mr G had died or suffered a serious 
illness. The monthly premium for the policy was £28.19.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account  
the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and what we know about these types 
of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr G has told us he wasnt given a fir choice over the sale of the PPI. Mr G has told us he 
was put under intense pressure to buy the PPI as well as another form of insurance known 
as GAP insurance. He says the Drive salesperson used scare tactics around what could 
happen if he became too ill to work and also stated that the finance would be more likely to 
be approved if he bought either the PPI or GAP or both.
Mr G was ultimately able to decline the GAP insurance but bought the PPI policy.
On the other hand Drive has told us its salesperson would not have pressured Mr G into 
buying the PPI and that it was his own choice to do so.
Ive seen copies of the paperwork completed at the time. 
The application form for the PPI contains the statement, I wish to take the Payment 
Protection Plan. Beside this statement are two boxes, one marked Yes and one marked 
No and I can see a tick has been placed in the Yes box while the other was left blank.The form also sets out seven levels of cover along with the monthly premium for each 
option. And I can see option two has been ticked which was not the basic level of cover. So I 
think some discussion over the choice of cover is likely to have taken place.
I also note the actual credit agreement describes the PPI as optional. Both documents 
have been signed by Mr G.
So the paperwork suggests Mr G was given a choice over whether to take out the cover and 
could have declined it if hed chosen to.
But Mr Gs complaint is that he was pressured into taking the PPI. Ive thought about this. 
Drive recommended the policy to Mr G, so I have no doubt the salesperson would have told 
Mr G he should have the cover, but that isnt the same as saying he had to.
And pressure is a subjective matter. What one person perceives as pressure, another may 
not. I also have to take into account that Mr G was able to decline the GAP insurance.
I know Mr G feels strongly that he would not have taken the PPI without the pressure he 
says he was subjected to. But after looking at the paperwork and weighing everything up I 
have not seen enough persuasive evidence to make me think I should uphold the complaint 
on this point.
Taking everything into account I think it is most likely that Drive gave Mr G a fair choice over 
the policy and he chose to buy it.
Drive recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check it was right for him, and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances I think it was.
Mr G was working and was eligible for the cover, so he could have made a claim if he had 
needed to.
The policy contained some exclusions and limitations, but it doesnt look like Mr G was 
affected by any of these. For example he didnt have any existing medical conditions which 
may not have been covered.
Mr Gs employer would have paid him sick pay for some time. Mr G has said he would have 
received 12 months sick pay. That level of sick pay would be extremely generous. But the 
policy could have paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay, so I still think Mr G would have 
found the policy useful, particularly if he had become unable to work for a significant period 
of time.
The policy would also have meant Mr G didnt need to use any of his savings towards loan 
repayments if he couldnt work.
From what Ive seen the cost of the policy was likely to have been made clear to Mr G and 
Ive not seen any evidence that the premiums were unaffordable.
So I think the policy recommended by Drive was likely right for Mr G.
Its possible the information Drive gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I need to decide whether or not Mr G 
would have changed his mind about buying the policy if hed been given better or clearer 
information. For the same reasons as I think the policy was right for him, I dont think any 
clearer information would have put him off buying the policy. In summary, I think Drive likely made it clear the policy was optional and Mr G chose to take 
it out. I think the policy was right for him, given his circumstances at the time. And I dont 
think any clearer information about the policy would have caused Mr G to act differently and 
decline the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Drive 
Motor Retail Limited trading as Drive Vauxhall.       
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman