DRN-1962462
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about what happened when she asked Starling Bank Limited to help her 
with a transaction that went wrong.
What happened
Miss B said that money had gone in and out of her account when she wanted to book a flight 
ticket. She ended up paying the airline, but it didnt give her a ticket. She asked Starling to 
help her, but it wouldnt. It just closed her account, and she couldnt get her money back.
Starling said that Miss B contacted it on 6 June 2019 to say a payment had been taken, 
refunded, then it was being taken again, for a flight ticket she never got. Miss B wanted to 
close her account. On 7 June, she told Starling that the airline was going to refund the 
money, but it was taking too long and she didnt want to wait. Starling said then that it 
couldnt make a chargeback request, because the airline had agreed to pay the money back. 
When the money was taken out, Miss B went into overdraft. She paid this off, and then 
Starling closed her account. The account closure was confirmed on 23 June. Starling wrote 
off a very small outstanding balance. 
Miss B had contacted Starling again to say that the merchant told her it couldnt pay her 
refund, because her account was closed. Starling thought she had to liaise with the airline to 
arrange for her refund to be paid into a different account. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Starling told Miss B it 
couldnt stop a payment she had authorised, and it wouldnt try to make a chargeback for a 
payment that was going to be refunded. He didnt think Starling had made a mistake about 
that. Miss B then told Starling she wanted to close the account, Starling didnt suggest that.  
The payment was then taken, and that put Mis B in overdraft. Shed discussed getting her 
money back with Starling and been told to contact the airline. Starling didnt uphold Miss Bs 
complaint about the overdraft. 
Our investigator knew the airline hadnt been able to refund Miss B because the account was 
closed. And Starling now wanted her to pay the overdrawn balance back. But he didnt think 
this was Starlings fault, and he didnt think Starling had made a mistake. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said Starling recommended that she closed her account, as that 
would mean the airline wouldnt be able to take her money. But the airline had been able to 
take her money, and she thought this was fraud. 
She said Starling was pressing her to pay off the debt on her account, threatening her with a 
bad credit score if she didnt pay. So she paid, and asked Starling if it could help her now to 
get the money back. But it said no, and as soon as she paid off the debt, Starling closed her 
account. Miss B wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to the call Miss B made, about closing her account. The advisor didnt 
tell Miss B to close her account. Miss B said she wanted to do that. And the advisor didnt tell 
Miss B that the payment to the airline wouldnt be made if she closed her account. 
Miss B asked to close her account on 6 July. But the account closure took some time, and in 
the meantime, her payment to the airline went through. 
The airline told Miss B that it would make a refund. Miss B didnt want to wait for that. But 
Starling couldnt make a chargeback request, just to speed up Miss B getting her money 
back. Its not able to make a request for that reason. 
Starling doesnt make the rules on chargeback requests. It just has to follow them. Im 
satisfied that when Miss B asked it for help, Starling wasnt able to help Miss B to get her 
money back faster.
The payment was taken from Miss Bs account, then it was overdrawn. Miss B paid the 
overdrawn amount, and Starling went ahead with closing her account, as shed asked it to. I 
havent seen anywhere that Miss B asked Starling not to close her account after all. 
Miss B now says that the airline cant pay her money back, because the account is closed. I 
dont think thats Starlings fault. As the airline seems to be willing to pay Miss B this money, 
she may wish to discuss with it making the payment elsewhere. 
I know that Miss B thinks that Starling suggested she close her account, but I dont think it 
did. And I dont think that what has gone wrong here is Starlings fault. So, although I know 
Miss B will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman