DRN-2247446
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about AXA UK Insurance Plcs handling of their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to AXA also include their agents
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made. 
Mr and Mrs Bs conservatory was damaged during a storm, so in February 2020 they 
contacted AXA to make a claim. AXA advised Mr and Mrs B to get a repair quote from a 
company for the damage, which Mr and Mrs B provided shortly after.  AXA then told Mr and 
Mrs B as the amount quoted was high, they would need their supplier to inspect the damage 
to validate the claim.
AXAs contractor attended Mr and Mrs Bs property in February 2020. Mr and Mrs B said the 
contractor was dismissive of the concerns they raised about the conservatory and was rude 
to them. Mr and Mrs B said the contractor discussed their thoughts on the scope of work 
needed to rectify the issues during the visit. Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied these were 
sufficient to cover the damage they reported.
AXAs contractor told AXA they couldnt see any physical damage and the issues could be 
repaired with readjustment and resealing. They said they could remove roof bars and re-fix 
the internal caps, resealing them where necessary to resolve the issues. But they also noted 
this wouldnt be proven successful until the next time a storm occurred  and if the roof did 
continue to leak this could mean there is more internal damage to the roof which could 
potentially result in a full replacement being needed.
Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with AXA as they were unhappy with the proposed repair 
and how their claim had been handled.  They were unhappy the repair couldnt be a 
guaranteed fix and was concerned about issues recurring the future.
AXA offered to have the contractor revisit to resurvey the conservatory roof  and following 
this they could reconsider the claim. Mr and Mrs B asked for another contractor to be 
appointed but AXA said they only had one contractor on their panel, so this wasnt possible. 
AXA also offered Mr and Mrs B £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service.
Our Investigator said the repair option put forward and AXAs offer of compensation was fair 
and reasonable, so they wouldnt be asking AXA to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator and have since provided further points to 
consider.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs B have strong views about what has happened, and they have 
provided numerous submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. 
However, I hope Mr and Mrs B wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs B, and by 
AXA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Some of the issues Mr and Mrs B have raised relate specifically to how AXA has handled of 
their complaint. While I have noted Mr and Mrs Bs overall dissatisfaction, my remit doesnt 
extend to considering the particular points they have raised here. So, I wont be commenting 
on these further.
AXAs final response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is dated 3 March 2020, my decision 
covers events that happened up until this date. Any reference to dates or events that took 
place following this are for purely for the purposes of delivering my decision.
Mr and Mrs B say the contractors investigation was inadequate, but Ive not seen anything 
to persuade me this was the case. 
Mr and Mrs B provided a quote from another contractor. In the quotation it says:
pleased to give you the following quotation to refit your conservatory ridge capping, 
fisturbed (sic) by high winds. 
Below this it details the cost of the work at around £6,600 and details the work as removing 
condervatory (sic) glass panels, refit ridge capping, replace glass
Both Mr and Mrs B and AXAs contractors seem to agree the ridge capping is a main cause 
of the issues, but theyve proposed different remedies.
Mr and Mrs Bs contractor proposed removing panels and replacing them whereas AXAs 
contractor felt a repair would be enough to fix the issues. The policy says AXA may repair, 
reinstate or replace damaged property. So, I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to offer a 
repair option where it is viable. AXA are entitled to rely on the opinion of their experts when 
deciding how to remedy a claim. 
I can also see from correspondence Mr and Mrs B told AXA they would only accept a 
correct fix which is to remove the roof, check for further damage, reinstall glass and seal 
where required. But I havent seen anything that persuades me the work recommend by 
AXA is an incorrect fix or why the particular remedy recommended by Mr and Mrs Bs 
contractor is required.
Mr and Mrs B said AXAs contractor didnt listen to their concerns. I understand this wouldve 
been frustrating, and if the contractor was rude to them this wouldve understandably been a 
bad experience. But as a professional they are obligated to provide their opinion on what 
they saw  and Im persuaded they did that. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs B being told by AXA the recommended repair wouldnt be 
proven successful until the next storm would have been a concern, but I dont think this 
means it will necessarily fail. The contractor said the fix will be enough and the work is 
guaranteed for two years. So, based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded the work they 
recommended was inadequate.
Mr and Mrs B said they feel AXA is trying to conceal something from them as they cannot 
have copies of the reports. Ive not seen anything that persuades me AXA said they cannot 
have the reports and I can see AXA responded to Mr and Mrs Bs request explaining 
timescales for providing this information under relevant data protection law. In any event, 
having seen the reports and their content, I can see the details had been discussed with 
Mr and Mrs B, so I dont think theyve been disadvantaged by not having them in their 
possession.
For various reasons, it doesnt appear the claim has moved forward since AXA issued their 
final response in March 2020. AXA has offered to arrange for their contractor to revisit the 
property to help resolve the concerns Mr and Mrs B have, which I dont think is 
unreasonable. However, I note this hasnt yet happened. 
Mr and Mrs B will need to work with AXA to move the claim forward.  If Mr and Mrs B remain 
unhappy with the progress of the claim. They will need to raise these concerns with AXA in 
the first instance. If they remain unhappy with the response, then they may bring a separate 
complaint to this service if they wish. 
There is always an element of inconvenience related to any insurance claim due to the fact 
something unexpected has happened which then needs to be put right. But I cant see there 
have been any avoidable delays caused by AXA in progressing the claim. 
However, I can see AXA has offered Mr and Mrs B £100 for any inconvenience they have 
been caused, and I think this is more than fair in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman