DRN-2135839
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has turned down a
storm damage claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, high winds damaged a wall at Mr S property. He got in touch with LV to
make a claim for storm damage. LV appointed a builder to visit Mr S home and investigate
the cause of damage.
The builder didnt think the damage was down to storm. He found the damage was down to
wear and tear over time. He thought the terrace on the wall and bamboo plants growing
against it were acting as a sail which created a force the depth of the wall couldnt support.
He also found cracks to the mortar and he thought plant growth was likely affecting the
foundations.
Based on the builders report, LV turned down the claim. It accepted thered been storm
winds. But it said the policy specifically excluded claims that were down to wear and tear;
faulty workmanship or which happened over time. Mr S appealed. He said the wall had been
built around 12 years ago following a claim with another insurer. The trellis had been on it
since the start. And he sent in photos which he said showed the wall was in good condition
before the high winds.
LVs in-house builder reviewed what Mr S had said and sent in, together with the builders
findings and agreed the damage wasnt covered. Mr S wasnt happy with LVs decision and
he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr S complaint should be upheld. He thought the fact the wall had
been standing for years without any issues showed the main cause of the damage was most
likely the storm. He didnt think the builders report was strong enough to say that the
damage was happening over time.
LV disagreed. It said it wouldnt expect a wall in good condition to become damaged in the
recorded wind speeds at the time. It provided information from a government website which
suggested that in Mr S area, walls of only  a brick thick should be built no more than
525mm high  but Mr S wall was 1.8 metres high and extended even further by the trellis
and bamboo to 2 metres. It thought the proximity of the bamboo was likely undermining the
shallow wall foundations, given the invasive nature of it. Photos showed the wall wasnt tied
into the main house and was leaning. It provided photos of the wall in 2017 and 2018 to
demonstrate itd moved. It maintained the damage was down to the bamboo and wind over
time causing a poorly-built wall to be damaged.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 July 2020, explaining the reasons why I thought it was 
fair for LV to turn down Mr S claim. I said:
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to
ask:
-Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
-Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
-Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
-
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
LV accepts there were wind speeds on the day the wall collapsed. Its records suggest wind
speeds of 51mph. It also accepts that these winds would constitute storm conditions. Having
checked local weather records, I can see that there were wind speeds of 55mph. This
means I think the answer to the first question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm?
I think that structural damage can sometimes be consistent with high wind speeds. LV
doesnt think the recorded wind speeds were high enough to cause a sound wall to become
damaged. So Ive moved on to consider whether I think it was fair for LV to decide storm
wasnt the main cause of the damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally
call an insured event. In this case, Mr S has claimed for damage caused by a storm.
Damage caused by storm is covered by the terms of the policy. But for the claim to be paid,
LV needs to be satisfied that the wall damage Mr S has claimed for was caused by the
storm.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But
insurers generally investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here.
LV asked a builder to investigate the likely cause of the damage.
Ive carefully considered everything both parties have sent us. Im grateful for the photos of
the wall Mr S has provided and for the builders report and further evidence LV has given us.
The builders report stated:
After looking at the damage to (the) garden wallhas found its been caused by an ongoing
issue which has become worse.The return does not have any ties holding it to the house.
The wall is 1.8m high and the trellis and bamboo growing against it are another metre
higher. I believe the whole wall and plants are catching the wind and acting as a sail which
creates a force a half a brick thick wall cannot support. We cannot rebuild the wall as is and
offer a guarantee as it will blow over again.
The builder also assessed the remaining wall and said it was all rocking; that mortar was
cracking in sections of the wall and the pavement was cracking. The builder felt this was
down to plant growth, which affected the foundations.
LV also asked for further comments from the building company. They added:
The lower mortar courses of the wall have weakened over time by repeated winds pushing
on the wall. A small return on the wall was not tied to the main house and as a result has
been pulled away by the movement of the larger house its attached to. The trellis above the
wall is half the height of the original wall and has bamboo growing against it. The leaves of
the bamboo restrict the wind flow through the trellis as they are pushed against it. The effectof this is to multiply the amount of wind pressure acting on the mortar joints along the bottom
of the wall. It increases by a third.
The wind will not always blow from the same direction but the wall will still be resisting the
sideways forces acting upon it. This repeated pressure from one side then the other
weakens the bond of the mortar. It is being pushed harder from one side than another but
ultimately the effect over time is the same, weakened joints. The wall, as originally built
should withstand high winds. If the surface area of the wall is increased by a third,
corresponding strengthening is needed to the wall.
Its clear, from the initial builders report and the follow-up comments, that they didnt think
the main cause of the damage was the storm winds. They concluded the damage was most
likely to have happened over time as a result of the walls height and the impact of the
bamboo and trellis on it.
Ive also carefully considered the photos both parties have provided. It seems to me that
since 2017, there has been movement in the wall and that the top of the wall was leaning. In
my view, this supports the builders findings.
Im currently persuaded by the builders conclusions. Thats because theyre the most
detailed expert evidence I have to show me whats most likely to have caused the wall to
collapse. It looks like the builder carried out a detailed inspection and clearly explained what
he thought had caused the damage. Mr S hasnt so far provided any independent expert
evidence to counter the builders findings.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think it was fair for LV to rely on the builders
reports to conclude that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
Mr S policy doesnt cover for loss or damage caused by wear and tear, gradual causes, or
faulty workmanship. Given it seems the damage happened gradually, I think the claim is
specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I currently think it was fair for LV turn down hisclaim.
I asked both parties to send me anything else they wanted me to consider.
LV didnt respond within the timeframe I gave.
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, he said:
-The bamboo plants had been there for around 35 years and were light plants;
-Hed put up the trellis around 12 years ago and wind travelled through it easily;
-The wall wasnt leaning before the storm;
-Given the location of his home, its possible that the wind speed was far greater than 
the speed recorded in the local weather records;
-LV had referred to the wall being built using an insufficient brick thickness;
-Any cracks in the mortar were just superficial cracks and the pavement only has four 
hairline cracks near the house;
-The trellis is actually a third of the height of the wall, not half;
-He cannot see any lean in the wall from the photos and he wouldve noticed any lean 
when watering flowers during the previous two summers;
-He remains certain that the wall was damaged by the storm, but he accepts he has 
no proof of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I still think it was fair for LV to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
Mr S has mentioned the brick thickness of the wall. I havent made any finding on whether 
the construction met regulatory standards at the time. And it isnt appropriate for me to 
comment on how other walls are built here. In this case, the building company felt the impact 
of the trellis and the bamboo together on the wall and the way it was constructed were the 
main reason it failed.  
Ive thought about what Mr S has said about the location of his home and how this couldve 
affected the wind speed during the storm. Its possible that the wind speed was higher than 
the speed recorded at the local weather station. But Mr S hasnt suggested what he thinks 
the speed mightve been or provided any weather records which would support what hes 
said. So I think the fairest and most accurate way for me to decide what the most likely wind 
speed was at the time is to check the local weather records, which were taken from the 
closest weather station to Mr S home. This recorded a wind speed of 55mph.
Mr S has provided detailed comments about the wall, the trellis, the surrounding vegetation 
and the pavement. I thank him for these and Ive considered all hes said. But in making my 
decision, I need to take into account the expert evidence Ive been provided with. It seems 
the trellis is a considerable height and that the bamboo against it restricted the wind flow, 
which caused a significant multiplication of wind pressure on the mortar joints. Over time, 
this weakened the joints. I wouldnt expect these forces on the mortar joints and foundations 
to be immediately visible to Mr S.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the building company that provided the report had 
the chance to inspect Mr S wall following the storm. And its given detailed reasons for the 
walls failure. Mr S hasnt provided any independent expert evidence which counters the builders conclusions. So based on this report and the follow-up comments from the building 
company, Im still persuaded wind pressure on the mortar joints was the most likely main 
cause of the wall becoming damaged.
I appreciate Mr S didnt think the wall had been leaning and he couldnt see a lean in the 
photos hed provided or looked at. But having reconsidered the photos, I still think there was 
a noticeable lean at the top of the wall, which supports LVs builders findings. 
Overall, I still dont think the main cause of the wall damage was storm. And I think it most 
likely happened over time. So Ive decided it was fair for LV to turn down Mr S claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman