DRN-3983022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs T submitted a claim for the cost of an additional nights accommodation 
as their flight was cancelled. AWP declined the claim and said the event that led to 
the cancellation wasnt covered under their travel policy. 
Ive looked at the Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. The 
events listed as providing cover under this section dont apply in Mr and Mrs Ts 
situation for what happened. And the Travel Disruption section of their policy also 
doesnt apply. There are no sections of the policy that apply in the circumstances of 
the complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs T say AWP informed them they would be covered for the 
cost of their flights being cancelled. They say they called AWP three times and each 
time were told they would be covered. I appreciate that its now disappointing to be 
told that they dont actually have cover for what happened. But Ive also thought 
about what would have happened had the calls not taken place. The flights were 
cancelled so it was inevitable for Mr and Mrs T to find alternative accommodation 
regardless of the calls as their next flight wasnt due for another two days and they 
had one night of accommodation they needed to find. So looking at it either way, they 
would not have been covered for what happened for the cost of the accommodation.
Taking all of this into account, I agree the information given in the calls was incorrect. 
This was an error on AWPs part, and I realise Mr and Mrs T would have potentially 
found cheaper accommodation. However, I think £200 compensation recommended 
by the investigator is fair and reasonable for the failing made by AWP. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask AWP to increase the compensation amount. 
Putting things right
To resolve the complaint, AWP has accepted the investigators recommendation to pay 
Mr and Mrs T £200 compensation. I agree with this for the reasons given above and AWP 
should now arrange to settle the complaint and pay £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs T. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman