DRN-2136737
The complaint
Ms K complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined her claim against her private 
medical insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In May 2019, Ms K applied to AXA for a private medical insurance policy. In the application 
form, she asked that cover start on 1 June 2019. Ms K says that her partner dealt with AXA 
on her behalf. Ms Ks policy was on a moratorium basis, which Ill refer to in more detail 
below.   
Ms K says that from around August 2019 onwards, she began experiencing problems with 
her knee. She says that she experienced severe stiffness on sitting to standing and had to 
push herself up from sitting, making it difficult to stand. Ms K lives overseas and says that 
she sought medical advice in the UK when visiting on business.
On 7 October 2019, Ms K contacted AXA about a claim for knee pain. She said that she was 
first aware of the problem six weeks before, so in August 2019. 
On 17 October 2019, Ms K saw a consultant trauma and orthopaedic surgeon who 
diagnosed end-state osteoarthritis in her knee. He recommended a total knee replacement. 
Ms K contacted AXA for pre-authorisation for the operation. AXA asked Ms Ks consultant for 
some information. On 23 October 2019, AXA declined Ms Ks claim. It said that Ms Ks 
osteoarthritis was a pre-existing condition and not covered under the policy. Ms K had the 
surgery on 24 October 2019.
Ms K disagrees with AXAs conclusion that her osteoarthritis was a pre-existing condition 
and, therefore, not covered by her policy. She says that she didnt have symptoms until two 
months before the operation  from August 2019. Ms K says that her knee deteriorated very 
quickly over a period of two months. She says that AXA says that this condition takes time to 
build up in the body, which may be correct, but she didnt need to see a doctor about this 
matter until October 2019, when the policy was in force. Ms K says that there are numerous 
diseases that take time to manifest themselves. She says that she was diagnosed as 
needing a knee replacement during the policy, so AXA should honour her claim.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had treated 
Ms K unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that AXA wasnt unreasonable in 
concluding that Ms Ks osteoarthritis was a pre-existing condition. 
Ms K didnt agree with the investigator. She said, in summary:
Shes had medical insurance for approximately 30 years and if shed known a knee 
replacement was required would have gone to her previous medical insurers or 
taken out a policy without a moratorium. 
It doesnt make sense to infer or suggest that she knew about the knee replacement 
at the time the policy with AXA was taken out. 
She didnt tell her consultant that shed had symptoms for six months, so thats not 
factual and is supposition.
If shed had symptoms earlier she would have sought medical help six months earlier 
and would have been dealing with a different insurer. 
She didnt know that she required a new knee and took out the policy in good faith.
Ms K asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Ms K has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed submissions to support her complaint. Ive read through all this 
carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. However, I trust that 
Ms K will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issue, 
that is, whether AXA was at fault in declining her claim on the basis that her osteoarthritis 
was a pre-existing condition and therefore excluded under the policy. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:  
3.2 How your policy works with pre-existing conditions and symptoms of them
Your policy is designed to cover treatment of new medical conditions that begin after you 
join.
You may also be covered for treatment of conditions you were aware of or had already had 
when you joined. We call these conditions pre-existing conditions. Your cover for              
pre-existing conditions depends on the underwriting terms you joined on.
[]
Definition of a pre-existing condition
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover, 
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
[]
Definition of moratorium
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you do not have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
you have been a member for two years in a row, and 
you have had a period of two years in a row that have been trouble-free from that 
condition.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly. I say 
that because:
Ms Ks policy is on a moratorium basis. That means that it doesnt cover pre-existing 
medical conditions Ms K had in the five years before the policy began until she has 
been a member for two consecutive years and had a period of two consecutive years 
trouble-free from that condition. 
The central question for me to decide is whether AXA acted unfairly in concluding 
that Ms Ks osteoarthritis was a pre-existing condition, as defined by the policy. My 
role isnt to substitute the medical judgement of any of the medical professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive 
been provided with to decide whether I think AXA handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably. 
AXA referred the matter to medical underwriting, which is what wed expect it to do. 
In response to AXAs question about how long Ms K had suffered symptoms of 
osteoarthritis, Ms Ks consultant said:
From the history I took, I would say about she has had significant symptoms for over 
6 months that has not resolved or responded to conservative non operative 
treatment. (sic). 
Ms K has referred to the grammatical errors in that response, but I dont think the 
errors detract from the meaning. AXAs medical underwriters considered what Ms Ks 
consultant said. I dont think that AXA treated Ms K unfairly in relying on the advice of 
its medical underwriters and concluding that Ms Ks osteoarthritis was a pre-existing 
condition. Thats a reasonable conclusion from the information provided by Ms Ks 
consultant.    
Mr Ks consultant provided a follow-up letter dated 22 January 2020, in which he said 
that Ms K only had severe symptoms of osteoarthritis in August 2019 and that [i]ts  
likely that she had a sub clinical level of mild arthritis for the previous 6 months, this 
disease does not suddenly happen. Ms K says that she didnt tell her consultant 
that she had symptoms for six months, so thats supposition. I dont agree. I think that 
Ms Ks consultant gave his expert medical opinion about the likely timeline of Ms Ks 
osteoarthritis. I dont think that AXA was at fault in relying on that or in failing to 
reverse its earlier decision to decline Ms Ks claim. 
Ms Ks consultant provided a further follow-up letter dated 18 February 2020, in 
which he said that Ms K only had severe symptoms two months before the operation 
in October 2019 and that she might have had some mild symptoms six months 
before that. The consultant goes on to refer to other, unrelated surgery which wasnt 
the basis of AXAs refusal of the claim. I dont think that there was anything in this 
letter which should have caused AXA to change its previous decision about Ms Ks 
claim.Ms K says that she didnt know that she needed a knee replacement when she took 
out the policy and didnt require a visit to the doctor about this until October 2019. I 
accept what Ms K says about that. Based on what Ive seen, Ms K first had a 
diagnosis of osteoarthritis and knew that shed need a knee replacement in     
October 2019. But that doesnt alter the outcome. Thats because the dates of 
diagnosis or treatment arent the determining factors here. On balance, I dont think 
that AXA was at fault in relying on Ms Ks consultants expert opinion that its likely 
that Ms K had symptoms of osteoarthritis for over or around six months before he 
saw her. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman