DRN-4074305
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when a payment 
was sent in error from his business account. 
What happened
On 31 July 2022, Mr W tried to transfer £14,999 from his business account, but the 
transaction was stopped for additional checks. When he failed to answer one of the security 
questions correctly, he was told the transaction would be declined. Because of this, he made 
the payment from his personal account. Unfortunately, and contrary to what Mr W had been 
led to believe, the payment from the business account was sent in error, meaning hed made 
the payment twice.
When Mr W realised what had happened, he contacted HSBC to ask it to retrieve his money. 
HSBC accepted there had been an error and advised Mr W to contact the beneficiary 
account to request a return of funds. It said the only other option would be for it to raise a 
trace on the payment by contacting the beneficiary bank who would then contact the 
beneficiary to ask their permission to return the funds. It apologised to Mr W and offered 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused.
The money was returned to Mr Ws account on 25 August 2022, but he remained 
dissatisfied, so he complained to HSBC, maintaining hed lost money due to its error. He 
said the compensation HSBC had offered wasnt enough. He explained he hadnt been able 
to work due to stress and that hed had to spend a lot of time chasing HSBC.
Mr W said he was forced to sell his work vehicle as he didnt know if hed be able to pay his 
mortgage, rent and bills. He explained the fact hed lost such a large amount of money had 
put his family into hardship and the compensation didnt cover the depression, anxiety, and 
stress hed experienced. 
HSBC offered a further £300 compensation, but Mr W wasnt satisfied and so he complained 
to this service. He said HSBC promised him the money hadnt left his account and that the 
transfer had been declined.
Mr W complained that £400 compensation wasnt enough. He said his account was blocked 
for a few days after the transaction and it was nearly three weeks before he got his money 
back. He said HSBC had showed no compassion and hed been afraid he would never get 
his money back. 
HSBC acknowledged the error, but it maintained the compensation it had offered was fair 
and reasonable.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She accepted the error had 
caused Mr W some distress and inconvenience, but she didnt think £400 compensation was 
unreasonable. She acknowledged that making the payment from his personal account left it 
with a low balance, but she said Mr W had known this would happen when he chose to 
make the payment from that account.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. 
He doesnt accept his loss was limited to inconvenience reiterating that he spent time on the 
phone when he should have been working, the fact hed travelled to a branch and that hed 
had to sell his van for a quick sale to get money back.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the money that was transferred from Mr Ws business account has been 
returned. Im also satisfied that HSBC has accepted the transaction occurred because of an 
its error on its part. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr W doesnt think £400 is sufficient compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he suffered, but I think it is and Ill explain why.
Mr W has explained that the day after he made the payment from his personal account, the 
beneficiary called him to say HSBC had released the original payment. It seems to me that 
he made no attempt to ask the beneficiary to re-pay the money at that point. And, based on 
the fact it was the beneficiary who had alerted Mr W to HSBCs error, its likely they would 
have agreed to return the money if hed asked. Its unclear why he refused to act on HSBCs 
suggestion to approach the beneficiary himself but, in failing to do so, I think he missed an 
opportunity to mitigate his own loss.
Nevertheless, Ive considered the effect the situation had on Mr W and I accept there was a 
period of time when he didnt have access to his money and that he found this very stressful, 
especially as he was worried about the effect it was having on the rest of his family.
I also accept that Mr W spent a lot of time communicating with HSBC about the issue and 
that it was time consuming. But I dont think it was reasonable for him to have taken time 
away from work to do this, nor can I hold HSBC responsible for the fact he chose to sell his 
work vehicle. This is because, while I understand he had concerns about his ability to pay for 
his mortgage and household bills, I dont think HSBC is responsible for the fact that Mr W 
chose to sell the vehicle.
Overall, I accept Mr W experienced some distress and inconvenience because of HSBCs 
failings, but Im satisfied that £400 was reasonable compensation for that and that it 
addresses the impact of those failings. I understand Mr W feels he is entitled to more, but 
HSBCs offer is in line with what we would expect in this situation and I dont intend to ask it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman