DRN-4244973
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (Clydesdale) unfairly declined to open an account on its behalf.
In bringing this complaint F is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr K. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and so, I wont repeat it in 
detail. 
Briefly, Mr K has told us that: 
On 7 October 2022 F applied to open a client account (the Account) with 
Clydesdale.
F is part of a group that includes a Limited Liability Partnership - which Ill refer to as 
L. F is a designated member of L, and the purpose of the Account was to hold funds 
on behalf of L to help facilitate its administration of various will trusts.
Although at the time, F had an account with another bank, unlike Clydesdale it did 
not offer client account facilities. It was on that basis that Fs application to 
Clydesdale took place. 
On 17 October 2022 Clydesdale wrote to F requesting its response to a series of 
questions. The bank also asked for: 
 evidence from HMRC that you are regulated to hold client funds
Shortly afterwards, F sent a copy of a letter from HMRC dated 15 September 2022. 
Headed: The Money Laundering Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds 
(information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), the letter said:
Please accept this letter as confirmation that you have passed the Fit & 
Proper test. 
F also provided to Clydesdale a separate document from HMRC which confirmed its 
registration as well as Fs unique HMRC registration number. 
Clydesdale rejected Fs application on the basis they werent satisfied F was 
regulated by the relevant body to receive and hold client funds. 
F opened an account with another bank and complained to Clydesdale about its 
decision. 
Clydesdale maintained their position, saying they had concerns about whether F was 
regulated to hold client funds in line with the banks requirements. They said that although F 
told them it was regulated by HMRC, nonetheless they didnt think HMRC offered client 
money protection. On that basis therefore, they believed F had failed to meet their 
requirements to open a client account with the bank.
Since Fs complaint remained unresolved Mr K referred it to this service to look into.  
Our investigator did so. He also shared with Clydesdale the same HMRC evidence that F 
had done previously regarding its status. And he asked the bank to let him know if that 
evidence wasnt sufficient indication of Fs status, to clarify what alternative evidence would 
be required from F. 
Despite reminders, Clydesdale didnt respond to the investigator. So, he considered the 
provisions in our rules, known as DISP. In particular, DISP 3.5.14R and DISP 3.5.9R(3). 
Broadly speaking, where time limits that weve given the parties arent adhered to, they allow 
our service to proceed with our consideration of a complaint and reach a decision on the 
basis of the evidence to hand. 
In the absence of a response from Clydesdale and relying on the evidence available, the 
investigator concluded that: 
The absence of regulation couldnt reasonably have been the sole reason Clydesdale 
declined to open the Account for F.
In light of this, the bank did not act fairly when it declined Fs application. 
Hed seen no evidence F had suffered financial loss arising from Clydesdales 
decision not to open the Account. Especially as F is a not-for-profit company and 
furthermore neither was it actively trading at the time of its application. 
There was no evidence L was impacted by Clydesdales decision, not least because 
L was still free to trade. 
Nonetheless, F was inconvenienced by what had happened and so, Clydesdale 
should pay F £300 for that inconvenience. 
Clydesdale accepted the investigators conclusions. F on the other hand didnt and has 
asked for an ombudsman to review its case.  
On Fs behalf Mr K said he didnt agree with the investigators conclusion that F hadnt 
suffered any financial loss arising from Clydesdales decision. Although he acknowledged F 
is a non-profit company, nonetheless, he reiterated the importance of its link to L as part of a 
group. And he argued that link should give rise to a much broader consideration of financial 
loss to include that incurred by L. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I start by saying it is within the commercial discretion of banks to decide who they wish to 
have as their customers. And generally speaking, its not my role to interfere with that 
judgement. What I can do is assess whether a bank has exercised its discretion fairly. 
Here, Clydesdale has not challenged the investigators conclusion that based on the 
evidence noted above, F had indeed provided the bank with evidence reasonably for it to be 
satisfied about Fs status. In light of this, I find that Clydesdale decision to reject Fs 
application on the basis they did, amounted to unfair treatment of F.
I turned next to consider how F should be fairly compensated.  
F has had to submit an account application elsewhere in light of the decision that Clydesdale 
took. I note also there were various exchanges of correspondence between F and 
Clydesdale in an attempt to determine the reason behind their decision. Im satisfied 
therefore that F has been inconvenienced by Clydesdales decision to decline its application. 
For the reasons the investigator gave, Im also satisfied the £300 he recommended as 
compensation for that inconvenience is both fair and reasonable. That leaves the question of 
financial loss which I now come to. 
Although Mr K doesnt agree F has suffered no financial loss, Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence demonstrating that it has. More to the point, Mr K acknowledges the purpose 
behind the Account was to hold funds on behalf of L. And whilst he says when assessing 
financial loss, we must also have regard to L given their group relationship, I do not agree. 
When determining whether financial loss has occurred, it has to be done by reference to the 
parties in dispute. 
In the circumstances of this case, L doesnt have a relationship with Clydesdale. And nor 
does a relationship become established for the reasons Mr K has given  which is that F and 
L are members of a group. F and L are separate legal entities. And L is not in dispute with 
Clydesdale on its own behalf.
I acknowledge that Mr K considers that losses to F are in effect losses to L. He has 
suggested that the relationship between F and L (where F is a designated member of the 
limited liability partnership L) is very similar to the relationship between a director and a 
limited company. 
I agree that there are similarities  but even if F had been a director of a limited company, I 
would still have been unable to make an award in respect of any losses suffered by that 
limited company. Limited companies and their directors are separate legal entities, just as 
limited liability partnerships and their members have separate legal personalities.
The complainant here is F. which means I only have the legal power to make awards in 
respect of losses suffered by F itself. I am satisfied that F itself has not made a financial loss, 
and I have no power to make an award in respect of any losses any other parties may have 
suffered.
  
Putting things right
 I am satisfied F has been inconvenienced because of Clydesdales decision for which they 
should pay it compensation. My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay F £300 for inconvenience. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman