DRN-3291844
The complaint
Mr R complains Unum Ltd unfairly turned down his claim when he was unable to work.
A representative has brought the complaint on Mr Rs behalf, but for ease I will refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr R himself. 
What happened
Mr R works as a legal professional and is a beneficiary of a group income protection policy, 
underwritten by Unum. The policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event of incapacity, 
following a deferred period of 13 weeks.  In January 2020, Mr R became unwell after 
collapsing and being taken to accident and emergency. And a couple of days later, he 
suffered a heart attack. Shortly after, in early February, he underwent heart surgery to fit a 
stent and pacemaker. Mr R was unable to work and he made a claim against the policy via 
the group policyholder.  
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
 Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are
 Not performing any occupation
In his claim, Mr R said he had been unable to work due to his symptoms impacting the skills 
he needed to do his job. Hed attempted a return to work in late May 2020, but this had been 
unsuccessful. Mr R said hed been unable to converse and assimilate information quickly as 
is needed in his profession, as well as finding the long hours and time on his feet too 
physically demanding. And he described experiencing shortness of breath and exhaustion. 
Following Mr Rs surgeries in February 2020, the medical reports reflected that the 
operations had gone well. These detailed medication Mr R would be required to take on an 
ongoing basis, and further tests and monitoring he would undergo. And it was stated Mr R 
should rest and take a dose of a prescribed medication in the event of further chest pain, 
and that if these measures didnt relieve the pain, he should seek emergency medical 
attention. 
In late March 2020 Mr R attended hospital due to waking with chest pains. He was assessed 
and given pain relief medication. 
Mr R had reported breathlessness on exertion following his surgeries. The medical records 
reflect Mr R experiencing these symptoms when lifting, throwing and carrying.  And his 
cardiologist wrote to his GP in June 2020, asking for confirmation that Covid-19 had been 
ruled out as a cause. And once this had been done, he recommended a scan be 
undertaken.
A further report in July 2020 said the scan had shown no inducible ischemia, so the 
Cardiologist asked the GP to investigate other possible causes of the shortness of breath on 
exertion. And a later letter from the Cardiologist in September 2020 referenced the shortness 
of breath again. He thought a different medication would help, and asked Mr Rs GP to make 
the change.
In October 2020, Unum declined the claim. Mr R was first absent from work on 19 January 
2020, and the 13 week deferred period ended on 19 April 2020. Unum said the claim had 
been notified in August 2020, which it said was too late and had impacted its ability to 
assess it. 
Mr R complained to Unum. He said he didnt think it was fair that the claim had been turned 
down for the reason Unum had given.
In response to the complaint, Unum said it thought it had been right to decline the claim. It 
said it didnt think the medical evidence it received provided enough detail around Mr Rs 
functionality during the 13 week deferred period, which was from the date of Mr Rs first 
absence in January 2020 until April of the same year. It said although Mr R experienced a 
significant heart attack, his ongoing symptoms of breathlessness were undetermined, and 
were later found to have been related to his medication. 
Unhappy with Unums response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Unum had unfairly declined 
the claim. 
Unum accepted the investigators view. However Mr R disagreed and asked for the case to 
be referred to an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Was the claim notified late?
The policy deferred period is 13 weeks  this is the period during which Unum would assess 
whether the claim met the terms of incapacity. However Unum said as the deferred period 
ended in April 2020 and the claim was not notified until August 2020, it lost the opportunity to 
request further medical evidence in relation to that 13 week period.  
Unum said it was notified of Mr Rs claim too late. So Ive considered the terms of the policy 
around notification of claims by the policyholder. And these are as follows.
If we are notified of a claim after the end of the deferred period, our liability to 
manage the absence and assess the claim may be affected.
You must provide us with a completed employer claim form and a completed 
employee claim form before a member has been incapacitated for: 
10 weeks for deferred periods of 26 weeks or more 
6 weeks for shorter deferred periodsIf we are notified of a claim after the end of the deferred period (but less than 90 
days later) we have the right to pay benefit from the date we receive the notice. 
If we are notified of a claim later we have the right not to pay benefit. 
Mr Rs first absence was on 19 January 2020. Unum first received notification of Mr Rs 
intention to make a claim in mid-July 2020.  And it received the claim forms on 26 August 
2020. 
The terms say Unum needed to be provided with the completed claims forms before the end 
of six weeks of incapacity. So its clear this timescale was exceeded. However the terms go 
on to say that Unum can pay benefit from the date it receives notice of the claim, if this is 
less than 90 days after the end of the deferred period. And if its notified later than that, 
Unum has the right not to pay the claim. 
Ive carefully considered the specific wording of the policy terms in regard to the timescales 
for claims. And having done so, Im satisfied Mr Rs and the policyholder were required to 
submit his claim within six weeks of becoming incapacitated. And if they notified Unum later 
than this, but within 90 days of the end of the deferred period, his claim may only be paid 
from the date of the notification. 
Mr R has said Unum was notified within 90 days of the end of the deferred period  as he 
told it of his intention to make a claim in July 2020. Whereas Unum has said the 90 days 
were exceeded, as it received the claim form on 26 August 2020, which was outside 90 days 
after the deferred period ended.  Mr R has also cited the impacts of Covid-19 and the 
lockdown in place at the time, as having delayed him making his claim. 
Unum has said the late notification obstructed it from undertaking the necessary 
investigation to understand the claim. Specifically it said the medical evidence did not 
provide a clear account of Mr Rs functional capacity for the whole of the deferred period. 
And it said further medical information obtained after the claim notification, wouldnt be 
relevant to the deferred period of January to April 2020. 
Ive carefully considered the wording of the terms around late notification. However, I dont 
think I need to make a finding on this, as although Unum stated the claim had been notified 
too late, Im satisfied it still fully assessed it based on the available evidence. So I dont think 
the late notification makes a difference here. And Ive gone on to consider the available 
medical evidence about Mr Rs health during the deferred period. 
Did Mr R meet the policy definition of incapacity?
Ive reviewed the policy terms of incapacity as shown above, alongside the available medical 
evidence and Unums reasoning, including the opinion of its medical officer. Having done so, 
I dont think it was unfair for Unum to decline the claim. And Ill explain why. 
The medical reports and GP notes reflect Mr R reporting shortness of breath on exertion, 
including when lifting, throwing and carrying. However there is no comment on how this 
would impact Mr R in his job role. I note due to the nature of Mr Rs self-employed role, 
there was no job description for Unum to reference. However in this case I dont think it 
unreasonable that Unum said itd not seen sufficient evidence that these symptoms this 
would significantly impact Mr Rs ability to work. 
Unums medical officer said the usual recovery time for the surgeries Mr R underwent 
would be up to 35 days. And the medical evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mr Rs surgeries went well and that he was recovering as expected and would continue to be 
monitored. Ive not seen evidence of any complications with the surgeries or recovery. 
The remaining issue has been Mr Rs shortness of breath on exertion, which was being 
investigated as the cause was unknown. And in the most recent report from September 
2020, the Cardiologist had suggested a change in Mr Rs medication, as he thought that 
could have been the cause of the symptoms. 
I accept Mr R went through a period of significant ill health; he underwent major surgery 
and I hope he is now doing well. Im aware he was deemed unfit for work by his GP on 
an ongoing basis, however the assessment of incapacity for this claim is based on the 
policy definition. And the medical evidence Ive seen hasnt sufficiently persuaded me 
that Mr Rs functional capacity was limited to the extent he was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his occupation, for the duration of the deferred period.
I think it would have been helpful to the assessment of the claim for Unum to have 
requested further medical reports from Mr Rs treating doctors on his functionality. Or for 
it to have instructed an independent medical examination to identify how Mr Rs 
symptoms would prevent him from carrying out his role. However, due to the deferred 
period ending around four months prior to Unum receiving the completed claim forms, I 
dont think it unreasonable that Unum did not request this at that time. And I say that 
because I think too much time had passed for it to have been possible to obtain further 
contemporaneous medical opinion on Mr Rs health, during the deferred period.  
In summary, I dont think Unum has acted unfairly. Despite saying the claim was notified 
late, Unum went on to fully assess it. And Im persuaded Mr R did not sufficiently show that 
he met the policy definition of incapacity, based on the evidence available. As such, I dont 
think Unum needs to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman