DRN-3952021
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly closed his credit card and loan 
accounts and reported these as being in default with credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr R had a credit card and loan account with HSBC. Due to a number of issues, including 
the Covid-19 pandemic, he experienced financial difficulties and struggled to meet his 
contractual payments on these accounts for some time. HSBC helped him with his difficulties 
from 2018, providing payment plans and on one occasion restructuring his loan so that 
outstanding arrears were made part of the balance of the loan, rather than continuing to be 
arrears.
In June 2021, Mr R spoke to HSBC about his situation and discussed what he could afford to 
pay with it. It was agreed that Mr R would pay an affordable amount each month. HSBC 
says that it explained that as a part of this plan, certain important notices would be sent. 
Mr R says that he understood a payment plan had been agreed for six months for his loan.
In August 2021, HSBC sent Mr R a notice that it would be defaulting his loan. It followed this 
up around 10 days later with a final demand letter. It sent similar notices in relation to his 
credit card account. As Mr R didnt respond to these letters for either his credit card or loan, 
or pay what was requested, HSBC closed his accounts, transferred them to a recovery 
department and recorded his accounts as having defaulted.
Mr R felt this was unfair. He said HSBC had based its decision to close his accounts and 
record a default on incorrect income and expenditure information. He also said that when 
HSBC had agreed plans and support in the past, he had been told to ignore letters like the 
ones he received after June 2021. But HSBC maintained that it had treated Mr R fairly and 
that it had told him that it may take the actions it did when it spoke to him. 
Mr R disagreed and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into this and felt that HSBC had acted fairly. They said that HSBC had provided a lot of 
financial support for Mr R over a long period of time and, when it came to the point of taking 
the actions Mr R was unhappy with  it was entitled to have done so in light of Mr Rs long 
term financial difficulties.
Mr R disagreed with this and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I have read and had regard for all that Mr R and HSBC have sent us 
here. Mr R in particular has taken the time to go into some detail about the circumstances 
here and why he thinks that HSBC has acted unfairly. I wont be going into the same level of 
detail here, or commenting on each and every point that Mr R has raised though. That 
doesnt mean that I havent carefully considered everything hes said and sent us though  I 
have. It just reflects our role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service.
Ultimately what I have to decide here is whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when it 
closed Mr Rs accounts and recorded them as being in default with credit reference 
agencies. While I realise that Mr R will disagree, I think it did. By the time HSBC took these 
actions Mr Rs financial difficulties were clearly long term and he had been speaking to 
HSBC about his difficulties since 2018 in one form or other.
The various types of support and payment plans that HSBC had agreed with Mr R over the 
years are only meant to be temporary solutions to help a customer and see if they can get to 
a position where they can maintain their accounts as originally intended. Ultimately, if 
someone is unable to maintain payments to borrowing in line with the original agreement, 
then a lender is entitled to take further action to recover whats owed and report this to credit 
reference agencies.
By June 2021, Mr R hadnt brought his accounts back in order for some time. In the 
circumstances, where Mr Rs accounts were in arrears and a number of plans had already 
been agreed, HSBC were entitled to record his accounts as being in default. Thats because 
he was more than three to six months behind with his payments, which is the timeframe 
given in the relevant guidelines by the Information Commissioners Office on when a lender 
should take action like this. I also note that HSBC sent the correct and required notices that 
it was going to take this action.
So I think HSBC was entitled to take this action and that it did so correctly. But what Ive 
gone onto consider is whether there is any reason that HSBC acted unfairly in taking these 
actions. 
the loan
The call from June 2021 where the terms of the plan on the loan were discussed isnt 
available now, but I have seen notes that HSBC made at the time and that were made later 
when it listened to the call again. These reflect that while a plan was agreed for six months, it 
was also explained that HSBC would send certain notices and letters to Mr R. This was then 
further supported by HSBCs letter of 21 June which explained the same. So at this stage, I 
think its likely that Mr R was given sufficient information about what was being agreed and 
what might happen after this.
Having asked for further information from HSBC, I do think there may have been some 
confusion following this plan. I noticed that there was a record of a call from 24 June 2021 
where the notes reflect that Mr R called to confirm the plan that had been agreed and HSBC 
confirmed that a letter had been sent about this. It looks like Mr R asked about default 
notices and was told that these were part of the plan that had been agreed and that he 
wouldnt need to act on the plan as once the account closed it would go to HSBCs recovery 
department.
Based on this, I can see why Mr R may have been confused. On the one hand he was told 
that HSBC could take further action, on the other - he looks to have been told in this call that 
he wouldnt need to act as a part of the plan. HSBC could have been clearer on this point, 
but I dont think this means that it acted unfairly when it took the actions Mr R is unhappy 
with. I say this because the record of this call mentions that HSBC did still explain that it 
would still be closing the account and I cant see that Mr R questioned this.
Ive also considered that if HSBC was clearer in this call, then the right thing to say would 
have been that Mr R needed to pay what was demanded in the letters hed receive if he wanted to avoid a default. But I cant see that he would have been in a position to do that 
within the timeframes that HSBC gave when it sent the default and final demand notices.
I realise that HSBC had agreed previous plans with Mr R where he was told to ignore letters 
like these and he says thats why he didnt think he needed to act on them here. But the 
letters and the notices all explained that the situation was now quite serious and that Mr R 
needed to take drastic action to avoid his accounts closing and defaulting. But despite that, I 
cant see that he made any offers of repayment, or could satisfy the demands made in these 
letters. In these circumstances, I think its fair that HSBC took steps where it had notified 
Mr R that it would be taking these.
I know that Mr R also had some issues in the past with a plan where arrears were re-aged 
so they were incorporated into the balance, rather than continually treated as arrears. But 
HSBC is under no obligation to offer a plan like that to a customer. Indeed, HSBC seems to 
have suggested that it shouldnt have put that plan in place when it did. So the fact it didnt 
put another re-age plan in place here doesnt mean that it acted unfairly. Instead from what 
Ive seen, HSBC considered what Mr R told it at the time and agreed a plan with him, along 
with explaining the relevant terms of this. 
Mr R also says that this plan was only agreed on the basis of incorrect income and 
expenditure information. I havent seen that this is clearly the case, but even if it were, I dont 
think that would change my decision here. Ultimately, by the time that the plan was 
discussed and agreed in June 2021, Mr Rs financial difficulties were already long term. By 
this point, unless Mr R was able to bring his accounts back in order, then HSBC was entitled 
to take further action. I cant see that he would have been able to have made payments that 
would have brought the account back in order.
credit card
Mr R also held a credit card with HSBC which had been in arrears. HSBC issued a default 
notice in June 2021 and a further final demand in September 2021. Because Mr R didnt 
make the payments needed in these, HSBC closed this account for use and recorded the 
account as defaulted. Ive seen that HSBC had also agreed previous plans for this account 
with Mr R too. So for similar reasons as the loan above, I think this was a fair action to take 
in terms of Mr Rs long term financial difficulties. 
conclusions
Ive read all that Mr R has told us about his efforts to pay and to try to be responsible in 
terms of what hes owed HSBC. I dont doubt that hes tried his very best to pay what he can 
in very difficult circumstances for him; circumstances that were only made worse by the 
pandemic. But I havent seen anything here to suggest that HSBC hasnt followed the 
relevant guidelines that applied during the pandemic. Mr Rs difficulties clearly started before 
the pandemic and so anything HSBC did to help him would have to take that into account. 
I also acknowledge what Mr R has said about his improved financial position now. But, I 
have to make my decision impartially and based on the evidence provided by both sides. So 
while I realise that Mr R had tried his best to manage these debts, he had clearly been 
experiencing financial difficulties for some time and by the time HSBC decided to default 
these accounts  I think it was entitled to do so. Even if I think it could have been clearer at 
times about its intentions, I cant see that Mr R would have ever been in a position to have 
avoided this action being taken. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly here. That means I 
wont be telling it to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman