DRN-2349858
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society agreed a covid-19 payment deferral on his 
mortgage without his consent.
What happened
Mr L has a mortgage with Nationwide. The mortgage is jointly held with his former partner  
although they have separated, the mortgage remains in joint names.
Mr Ls former partner applied for a covid-19 payment deferral. This was a scheme put in 
place by the regulator at the start of the pandemic lockdown to allow borrowers to defer 
making payments to their mortgage for up to three (later six) months. During the period of a 
deferral, no payments would be required. But because payments werent being made, the 
balance is higher than it otherwise would have been, so more interest is charged. The 
deferred payments and the additional interest will have to be paid back at some point during 
the life of the mortgage.
Nationwide agreed to the request and sent out letters confirming the deferral. When he 
received the letter, Mr L contacted Nationwide to complain that it had been agreed without 
consulting him and without his consent. He didnt think it was fair that he should be held 
liable for the deferred payments or the additional interest. He said that Nationwide should 
have carried out a full affordability assessment of his former partner before agreeing to the 
request and had failed to act with due diligence. And he was concerned the deferrals would 
affect his credit file.
Nationwide said it had accepted the deferral application that had been made. It said it 
wouldnt remove the deferral without the consent of both parties. But there was nothing to 
stop Mr L paying some or all of the deferred payments to stop additional interest being 
charged if he wanted to do so. The deferral meant payments didnt have to be made  but 
didnt prevent them. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr L asked for it to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint about Nationwide  so in this decision I will only be commenting on 
Nationwides actions, not the actions of the other borrower who is not a party to the 
complaint.
When the coronavirus pandemic first hit, and there was a nationwide lockdown, many people 
were financially affected  unable to work, for example.
There were various measures put in place by the government and others across many 
industries. The regulator of financial services, the FCA, told lenders that they should grant 
payment deferrals to borrowers whose finances had been affected by covid-19 and would 
struggle as a result to make their payments. 
The missed payments would be deferred, not written off, and extra interest would be payable 
because the balance would be higher as a result  but the deferrals would give borrowers 
some short term respite to find a longer term solution. Deferred payments would not be 
treated as or reported to credit files as arrears.
Because of the anticipated volume of requests  at one point, its estimated that over one in 
six of all UK mortgages was on a payment deferral  it wasnt possible for lenders to make 
detailed enquiries of all those who applied for a deferral. The volume of requests came at a 
time when lenders themselves were impacted and having to convert to remote working, with 
all the operational impacts that came with that change. 
As a result, the regulator said that lenders could grant a deferral where the borrower certified 
that they had been impacted, without the need for further checks. 
In this case, the mortgage payments pre-pandemic were coming out of the bank account of 
the other borrower. The other borrower contacted Nationwide to ask for a deferral. 
Nationwide granted that request without actively checking whether Mr L agreed to it. Given 
the circumstances at the time, I think it was reasonable that this application for a deferral 
was dealt with in a light touch way.
I do understand why Mr L is unhappy about that. A change was made to his mortgage 
arrangements without his agreement.
But  as Nationwide explained to Mr L  this is a joint mortgage, and Mr L is jointly and 
severally liable to make the payments just as the other borrower is. There was nothing to 
prevent Mr L making the mortgage payments himself, if he was concerned about extra 
interest being charged if the other borrower missed them. Nationwide offered to back date 
the payments, if Mr L made them, so that no extra interest would be charged. But Mr L didnt 
take up that offer.
That means that neither Mr L nor the other borrower made the payments for the period of the 
deferral. 
The effect of a payment deferral is that the payments are not expected, they do not get 
recorded as arrears, and are not logged as missed payments on either borrowers credit file.
Had the payment deferral been refused, or removed, and neither Mr L nor the other borrower 
made the payments, then the same amount of additional interest would have been incurred 
and added to the mortgage. The financial position would have been exactly the same, 
because the payments would still not have been made. 
The only difference is that in the absence of an agreed deferral the payments would not 
have been missed by agreement, they would just have been missed. That means they would 
have been treated as arrears, and arrears would have been reported to both Mr Ls and the 
other borrowers credit files.
Had Mr L been able or willing to make the payments himself, the payment deferral wouldnt 
have had any effect and no additional interest would have been charged.
But because he wasnt able or willing to make the payments himself, had Nationwide done 
what he asked and refused or revoked the payment holiday, he would have been in a worse position. The payments still wouldnt have been made, additional interest still would have 
been charged  and Nationwide would have reported arrears to Mr Ls credit file and its 
collections department would have pursued him (and the other borrower) for the missing 
payments.
So while I understand that Mr L is concerned that a deferral was agreed without his consent, 
it was agreed because the other borrower  who had been making the payments  said they 
were no longer able to do so due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
Under the regulators guidance  designed to be quick and light touch  Im satisfied 
Nationwide was entitled to accept an application for a payment deferral from the party 
making the payments. Given he couldnt make the payments himself Mr L would have been 
in a worse position without the deferral than with one. In all the circumstances, I dont think 
Nationwide has acted unfairly, and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman