DRN-3377931
The complaint
Mrs U complains Wise Payments Limited wont refund money she was tricked into 
transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
Mrs U attempted to purchase a shipment of goods. The seller was based overseas and after 
she paid for the goods, they demanded a series of additional fees from her for various 
reasons related to the transportation of them.
One of the payments Mrs U made  for £1,670.75 was made using Wises services to an 
account also held at Wise. It was a fee supposedly for an EU movement certificate. 
Unfortunately for Mrs U, the seller wasnt genuine and the goods dont seem to have existed.
This complaint is limited to Wises actions in relation to that single payment  but I know Mrs 
U has lost significantly more than this amount through her current account.
Mrs U reported the matter to Wise, but it said that it wouldnt refund the payment as it had 
been made by Mrs U and it wasnt responsible for problems with the recipient of a payment. 
However, it said that a small amount of money remained with the recipient, but it would need 
an indemnity from Mrs Us bank in order to return those funds to her. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold Mrs Us complaint. They didnt think that the payment 
Mrs U made was so unusual that Wise shouldnt have processed it in line with her 
instructions. They were also satisfied with the actions it took in relation to the recipients 
account. 
Mrs U didnt agree  she said that she didnt understand why a fraudster was allowed to 
have an account with Wise and it ought to have been able to recall the payment, particularly  
as shed contacted it as soon as she was aware of the fraud. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs U authorised this transaction and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This was the first transaction Mrs U instructed Wise to make, so it had nothing to compare 
the activity against. The amount, though clearly not insignificant for Mrs U, isnt so high that 
Id expect Wise to conduct any further checks before processing the payment. Given the 
nature of Wises business  specialising in international payments  I cant fairly say the fact 
this payment was international would have given it any cause for concern either. Overall, I 
cant see any reason why Wise might have thought this payment was being made as a result 
of a scam. 
Mrs U has raised a number of points since our investigators assessment about the 
recipients account and Wises actions in relation to it. I cant see that these points were 
raised previously but, even if they were, a complaint about Wises actions in its capacity as a 
receiving firm would need to be considered as part of a separate complaint. 
Payments of this nature cannot simply be reversed, but I can consider as part of this 
complaint what Wise did to recover Mrs Us funds. In this case, the payment wasnt reported 
as fraudulent until some weeks after it took place, at which point the overwhelming majority 
of Mrs Us funds had already been spent by the recipient. So, no action by Wise could have 
led to the recovery of the funds that had already left the recipients account. 
Though the payment Mrs U made went to another Wise account, the recipient was not a 
customer of Wise Payments Limited, but rather its entity for some European customers  
Wise Europe SA. That means I cant compel Wise Payments Limited to return the small 
amount of money that remains in the recipient account as it doesnt technically hold those 
funds. Neither can I assess whether Wise Europe SAs conditions for returning those funds 
are fair, as that entity doesnt come under our jurisdiction. 
But, Wise (presumably on behalf of its European entity) has said that it would consider 
returning the funds if it receives a formal notification of the fraud from Mrs Us bank (rather 
than an indemnity). For the reasons Ive explained, I cant ask Wise Payments Limited to do 
anything further in relation to this. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs U and Im very sorry to hear about the impact 
this matter has had on her, but I dont think Wise made an error in processing this payment 
and I havent found any other reason why it should be responsible for refunding it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman