DRN-3759788
The complaint
Mr W has complained that MBNA Limited was irresponsible when it increased the limit on 
his credit card in 2016.
What happened
MBNA opened a credit card account for Mr W in 2004. This type of credit was an 
open-ended or running account facility. MBNA offered Mr W an increase in his credit 
limit from £10,200 to £15,200 in May 2016.
Mr W says that he hadnt requested an increase in his credit limit and the offer to increase 
it was communicated to him in an opt-out manner. He said he had used the card almost 
up to its limit and at the time had four other credit cards with a combined credit limit of 
around £40,000, in addition to an unsecured loan of £10,000 and a mortgage. Mr W says 
MBNA should have seen that he was overindebted and not offered him more credit.
MBNA says that it increased Mr Ws credit limit in line with his payment history and 
general account conduct. It didnt agree that it was irresponsible when it increased his 
credit limit in 2016 and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and 
recommended that it be upheld. They found that MBNA hadnt carried out a proportionate 
affordability check when it offered Mr W the limit increase and that such a check was likely 
to have demonstrated that Mr W would not have been able to make his repayments 
sustainably. They concluded that MBNA had been irresponsible when it offered further 
credit to Mr W and should pay him compensation.
MBNA didnt accept this recommendation. It said that it had acted in line with the 
regulations in place at the time and that our investigators view was based on a 
retrospective review of information it wasnt required to have seen. MBNA also said that 
the rules at the time of the increase indicated that a business must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer only before entering into a 
regulated credit agreement. After reviewing the bank statements Mr W provided to us, 
MBNA said that these showed that the credit limit given was affordable and, irrespective of 
how Mr W was managing his money, he had enough available income to manage a credit 
card facility.
MBNA asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I 
issued a provisional decision on 22 September explaining why I thought Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld. Mr W agreed with my provisional decision but MBNA did not. Both 
parties provided some additional information for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what both parties said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for MBNA and Ill set out again my reasons for 
upholding in this final decision and refer to the responses Ive had where appropriate. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, when considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the 
regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit 
handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as MBNA, need to abide by. MBNA will be aware of 
these and our approach to these sorts of complaints is set out on our website. I wont refer to 
the regulations in detail here but I will summarise them to reassure MBNA that Ive 
considered those in place at the time.
I said in my provisional decision:
Before entering into a credit agreement or increasing a limit under an existing credit 
agreement (CONC 6.2.1R ref. Section 55B(2) of the Consumer Credit Act), MBNA needed to 
check that a borrower could afford to meet their repayments sustainably. CONC 5.3.1G(1) 
stated that in making its assessment a lender should take into account more than assessing 
a customers ability to repay the credit. In other words, MBNA needed to check Mr W could 
repay the credit out of his usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences.
In addition, CONC 6.7.2R stated that a firm must monitor a customers repayment record 
and take appropriate action where there were signs of actual or possible repayment 
difficulties. This rule referred to the previous regulators guidance, which said that such 
signs might include failing to make the minimum repayment or making a number of 
consecutive minimum repayments. The overarching requirement was that MBNA needed 
to pay due regard to  Mr Ws interests and treat him fairly.
Having considered everything, I plan to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive provisionally 
concluded that MBNA should have looked further into his circumstances before 
increasing his limit to £15,200 in 2016 and, had it done so, would likely have found out 
that further credit wasnt going to be sustainable for him. I appreciate that this will be a 
disappointing outcome for MBNA and Ill set out my reasoning in some detail. Ill also 
explain what I think needs to happen now to put things right for Mr W.
Mr Ws card balance at the time was £10,038 and his credit limit was £10,200. I think its 
evident that this credit increase was significant, being a 50% increase, which brought 
Mr Ws credit limit to £15,200. If he were to repay this over five years, for example, he 
might need to repay somewhere between £400 and £500 a month. By late 2021, Mr Ws 
balance was around £15,000 and the recommended monthly payment was over £500.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what information lenders needed to gather 
before granting significant credit increases. However, as per CONC 5.2.4G, MBNA 
needed to consider what was appropriate and the risk of the credit not being sustainable 
for Mr W directly related to the amount of credit it was offering and the total charge for the 
credit relative to his financial situation.
MBNA said that it didnt have any affordability data related to this increase but did have 
some information from Mr Ws credit file which showed that he had unsecured debts of 
£30,750. MBNA said that it relied on credit reference agency scoring when making its 
decision which didnt flag that Mr W was a customer who needed careful management 
due to high levels of indebtedness.
The checks MBNA carried out prior to increasing Mr Ws limit might have been appropriate for other customers in other circumstances. However, I dont consider that 
they were sufficient in Mr Ws particular financial situation, which MBNA was required to 
consider (CONC 5.2.1R ref. ILG 4.1  this being a borrower-focussed test).
MBNA says that the credit file information it considered showed that Mr W had been 
managing his existing debt well, with no recent missed payments, no defaults or county 
court judgements. However, MBNA knew that Mr W had unsecured debts of over £30,000 
and was almost up to the limit of £10,200 on this credit card. It also knew that he had 
made the minimum payment for the last five months at least, was paying for parking and 
fuel with his card and taking out cash advances. It seems to me that MBNA had enough 
information here to suspect that Mr W was having financial difficulty and it should have 
investigated this in more detail before offering him further credit in order to assess the risk 
to him of experiencing adverse consequences, irrespective of its risk appetite.
I dont know if the credit file information MBNA considered included the amount Mr W was 
paying towards his existing debts each month, or what his usual living costs were. I think 
it would have been appropriate in these circumstances to consider this information along 
with information about Mr Ws income, howsoever it obtained this. I have reviewed Mr Ws 
bank statements from the time, which I think are a reasonable proxy for what MBNA might 
have found out, had it looked into Mr Ws circumstances in greater depth. As mentioned, 
we have sent a copy of these to MBNA.
MBNA said in response to the above that Mr W wasnt solely reliant on his credit card for 
fuel and parking purchases and that it was unfair to use this as an argument that he was 
in financial difficulty. I can accept that these spending examples alone would not be a 
strong indication of financial difficulty however, given the context in which these 
happened, I think the fact that Mr W was using his credit card for everyday spending is a 
reasonable contributing argument.  
MBNA also said that The CONC 5.3.1G(1) is for guidance, referenced by the G, so we 
feel any additional checks would be determined by our lending strategy and / or risk policy 
at the time. We dont agree that it was needed or was a requirement. This particular 
regulation states what lenders should do so I dont think Ive misquoted in referring to 
this as something MBNA needed to do. When coming to a fair and reasonable decision 
on this complaint Ive considered whether or not MBNA acted in line with these 
regulations irrespective of how they were defined in the handbook. 
I went on to say in my provisional decision that:
The statements for Mr Ws sole bank account show that his usual monthly income was 
around £4,430. His payments to creditors came to around £1,120 (excluding his MBNA 
payments), bills were approximately £165 and, conservatively, Mr W paid about £150 a 
month for food and travel. This account had an overdraft facility of £2,000 which Mr W 
fully utilised and occasionally exceeded. Mr W also paid £2,400 to £2,500 a month into 
his joint account. This covered, for example, a joint mortgage of £1,119, council tax and 
other bills of about £550, and household food and travel costs of upwards of £600. The 
£200 overdraft facility was fully utilised and occasionally exceeded.
It seems to me that this would usually have left Mr W with around £500 each month to cover 
anything else not identifiable on the bank statements (for example clothing, household items, 
holidays etc) or any unexpected costs. I understand that Mr W had two dependents. As 
mentioned Mr Ws credit card payments might reach £400 to £500 on this level of credit in 
order to repay it within a reasonable period of time. Ive noted that he was already spending 
a significant proportion of his salary repaying existing debt.MBNA said in response that Mr Ws mortgage repayment indicated that his household 
had an income of around £84,000 which was in line with the household income of 
£80,000 provided in Mr Ws initial application form. MBNA says that this indicates, based 
on its lending criteria, that the credit was affordable. I didnt make any finding that the 
income level MBNA relied on was incorrect, rather that further investigation of Mr Ws 
circumstances would likely have revealed a level of expenses which rendered the credit 
unsustainable. 
I went on to say in my provisional decision:
I have considered that Mr Ws wife might have been contributing to the household spend. 
Mr W said that she was training during the first part of 2016 and began earning later in the 
year. At the time of the increase he was the sole contributor to the household income and 
continued to be the main earner. Mr W provided supporting information for this and I am 
satisfied that this was likely to have been the case.
MBNA said in response that There are regular standing order payments to an account in 
the name of [Ms W] with a reference of [Mr W]s Loan for £390. It is fair to assume that 
[Ms W] has a sole account with payments of £390 going into it on 29th February 2016, 29th 
March 2016 and 27th April 2016. Without sight of [Ms W]s sole bank account, it would be 
reasonable to add £390 to the available income as that is remaining in the household and 
not going to creditors. Given that these transfers are regular and are labelled [Mr W]s 
loan it seems more reasonable to me to assume that these payments were for money 
that Mr W owed. Mr W confirmed that these payments to his wife were to meet 
repayments on a loan she had taken out on his behalf. I remain of the view that its not 
likely these sums were available to Mr W to meet his credit card repayments.
I went on to say in my provisional decision:
Ive noted transfers to and from an investment account on Mr Ws sole bank account 
statements. Mr W said the value of these shares was about £7,500 at the time and 
provided account information which supports this. He also said that he sold some shares 
on occasion to make ends meet and his share statement for 2016 supports this. I have 
discounted these as being available to meet Mr Ws credit card repayments, given the 
value of the shares at the time of the increase and bearing in mind CONC 5.3.1G(6)(C) 
which states that making repayments sustainably means being able to do so out of 
income or savings, without having to realise security or assets. Mr W told us that he 
eventually re-mortgaged in order to clear his total credit card debts of about £45,000.
In response to this, MBNA said that Mr W paid more into his investment account than he 
withdrew in the month of March 2016. This indicates that he was not reliant on the 
investment to make ends meet and that it was more of a savings account than an actual 
asset or security. As Id said in my provisional decision, Mr Ws share statement for 2016 
supported what hed said about selling his shares to meet his living costs. While his bank 
statements for a single month might show that he paid more towards his investments in 
that month, from the information Ive seen covering from end May to end November 2016 
to they were overall reducing. 
MBNA also asked me to confirm the date Mr W re-mortgaged as  this may have been 
a few years later and not a direct correlation to the limit increase provided by MBNA. The 
original complaint letter received suggests the re-mortgage took place somewhere after 
the start of 2020 after he has taken out additional borrowing (some 4 years after the credit 
limit increase by MBNA). We note that [Mr W] has only made a substantial payment of 
£14,200 to reduce his MBNA balance in May 2022. This does not seem to be in line with 
the customers statement that he re-mortgaged in order to clear his total credit card debts.
Mr W told us that he was unable to repay his credit card debts until June of this year when 
he was able to consolidate those debts by taking out a new mortgage. He explained that 
hed applied to increase his mortgage borrowing with his existing lender but was refused and 
it took some time to arrange borrowing from elsewhere. Mr W may not have entirely cleared 
his credit card debt with MBNA, but I am satisfied that he borrowed in order to address this 
and his other credit card debts. Mr W provided proof of his mortgage decline and acceptance 
with a new lender, which cleared his existing mortgage and provided him with just over 
£35,000 which hes said he used to clear his credit card debts. He was unable to borrow to 
clear the full amount he owed on credit and £35,000 was the largest increase he could 
obtain. As MBNA advised, Mr W then paid a significant amount towards his credit card.  
In summary, having carefully considered everything both parties have told me, Ive 
concluded that Mr W wasnt in a position to be able to meet his repayments for further 
credit sustainably.  I think its likely MBNA would have learnt this had it carried out a 
proportionate check before increasing his credit limit in 2016, and so Ive concluded that 
MBNA was irresponsible to have agreed further credit for him at that time.
Putting things right
Where we find credit to have been agreed irresponsibly, our approach to putting things 
right is to refund any interest, fees or charges associated with the credit that were paid by 
the borrower. In addition, we usually direct the lender to pay a refund of 8% per annum 
simple interest on these payments where the borrower was unfairly deprived of their 
money. Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as they have had the use 
of these funds.
Ive concluded that MBNA was irresponsible when it increased Mr Ws limit in 2016. In 
order to put Mr W back into the position he would have been in had this not happened 
means he shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on credit granted above his 
existing limit of £10,200.
In summary, MBNA should:
Rework Mr Ws account to remove all interest and charges that have been applied 
to balances above £10,200; and
If the effect of this reworking results in a credit balance, then this should be 
refunded to Mr W along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the 
date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, MBNA should remove 
any adverse information reported to Mr Ws credit file after 4 May 2016; or
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made MBNA needs to ensure that Mr W is only liable for this adjusted 
balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with him. Once Mr W has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 4 May 
2016 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint about MBNA 
Limited and it needs to take the steps Ive set out in order to put things right for him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman