DRN-3788250
The complaint
Mr D complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and their decision to decline the 
claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D held a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Admiral. Around July 2022, Mr 
D discovered he was locked out of his property and he didnt know where his keys were. So, 
he called a locksmith to gain access to the property, incurring the associated costs. And 
following this, he made a claim on his insurance policy to recover the costs he paid.
But Admiral declined Mr Ds claim, as they didnt think Mr Ds keys were either lost or stolen 
as they were found in the property once access had been made. Mr D was unhappy with 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr D didnt think Admirals decision to decline the claim was fair. He explained he felt hed 
lost his keys when he instructed a locksmith, as he had no way of accessing his flat 
otherwise. So, even though a set of the keys were in his property after he made access, he 
didnt think this meant he hadnt lost them initially. And so, he thought Admiral should 
reimburse him for the full invoice he paid, which included an amount over his insured cover 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Admiral responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their decision to 
decline the claim was fair, and in line with the terms of the policy, as they didnt think the 
keys were either lost or stolen. So, Admiral didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
D remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the financial 
impact instructing and paying for a locksmith had on Mr D. But they thought Admiral had 
acted fairly when deciding to decline the claim and that Admiral acted within the terms of the 
policy when doing so. Because of this, they didnt think Admiral needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree, and he expressed his intention to provide further information explaining 
why. To date, this information hasnt been received. But as its clear Mr D didnt agree with 
our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I dont doubt the 
obvious upset and inconvenience Mr D wouldve felt when he realised he was unable to 
access his property. And considering he didnt have another set of keys other than the ones 
he lost available, I dont dispute the fact that Mr Ds only option was to instruct a locksmith to 
help him regain access. I also appreciate the cost this incurred and why Mr D felt as though 
this cost should be recoverable through his home insurance policy, as it provides cover for 
lost and stolen keys. I understand why Mr D feels as though his keys were lost and so, I can 
understand why Mr D would be left frustrated at Admirals decision to decline his claim.
But for me to say Admiral should pay Mr D the costs he incurred instructing the locksmith, Id 
first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong when declining the claim. So, Id 
need to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr D held 
when declining it. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair of them to do so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Admiral dont dispute Mr Ds policy contains cover for cost of replacing locks and keys to the 
external doors of Mr Ds property. And Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy which 
confirm this. But crucially, the terms and conditions explain this cover is only eligible where 
the keys are either lost or stolen. And I think this is the main point of contention in this 
complaint.
Mr D feels the keys were lost at the time of him instructing the locksmith, as he didnt know 
where they were nor was he able to obtain them to use. But Admiral dont feel as though the 
keys were lost, as once Mr D regained entry to his property he found them inside. So, Ive 
considered both points of view to decide whether I think Admirals stance is fair. And I think it 
is.
Although I dont dispute Mr Ds testimony that, at the time he needed to gain access he 
assumed the keys were lost, I think the fact he found the keys inside his property means 
they werent. To qualify as lost, I think the keys wouldve needed to have been misplaced 
and no longer able to be recovered. But that isnt the case here.
Instead, Mr D essentially locked himself out of his property. But as the keys were inside the 
property he owned, I think Admiral were fair to say the keys were not lost, as they were still 
safely within his possession, just not on his person. 
So, I think Admiral acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the 
claim, as I dont think it met necessary conditions to qualify as a covered claim. And I think 
they acted fairly when doing so. Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more 
on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And I recognise it leaves Mr D 
unable to recover the amount he paid to the locksmith, which I appreciate was a significant 
amount. I want to reassure Ive considered this, and the financial impact it will have had, at 
length when reaching my decision. But as Ive explained earlier within the decision, for me to 
say Admiral should cover part, if not all, of this cost, I first need to be satisfied theyve made 
an error in the way theyve handled and declined the claim. And I dont think they have here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman