DRN-2952967
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a mortgage he holds with Santander UK Plc. He is unhappy about 
the administration of his mortgage account, especially:
That he hasnt been given the option to pay his monthly payment by direct debit.
He is paying £206 per month toward the arrears, but he doesnt know whether it is being 
allocated as such and recorded on Santanders systems.
He believes that Santander is purposely not communicating with him clearly so that he 
makes insufficient payments to his mortgage, which will then allow it to repossess his 
property. 
He is unhappy Santander has continued to send him letters about repossessing his 
home, despite him having paid the amount to the arrears the court said he had to.
What happened
Mr S took out his mortgage with Santander in 2006. It was for approximately £120,000 over 
a term of 25 years. The mortgage was set up on an interest-only basis. Mr S arranged a 
further advance the following year for £30,000.
In 2010 Santander paid a sum for ground rent and service charge to the management 
company of Mr S property in order to preserve its security. This was later capitalised on to 
the mortgage balance. However, in early 2011 payments from the department of social 
services began to be paid, but they didnt cover the full amount of the contractual monthly 
payment (CMP). Arrears started to build on the account, although Mr S periodically made 
cash or cheque payments to reduce or clear the arrears until early 2012. From that point the 
arears built and further costs associated with the property were added to the arrears 
balance. No payments were made to the mortgage between February 2013 and 
February 2016, during which arrears, interest and charges continued to accrue on the 
mortgage. 
Santander took legal action to repossess the property because of the amount of arrears. The 
court issued a suspended order for possession in May 2017. Mr S was given the opportunity 
to remain in his home if he paid the CMP and an additional £206 toward the arrears.
Mr S began making payments to the mortgage, but they were regularly less than he was 
required to pay. He complained about the way Santander had dealt with his mortgage. The 
complaint was considered by this service in February 2018  we concluded Santander had 
treated Mr S fairly. 
Mr S continued to make payments toward the mortgage, but the amount paid was often not 
enough to cover the CMP and additional arrears payment. The amount paid also varied 
significantly at times  going from being several hundreds of pounds less than he was 
required to pay, to several hundred more than required.
In 2020 Mr S asked for a three-month Covid-19 payment holiday, which was granted. 
However, Mr S believed Santander had administered the payment holiday incorrectly and a 
complaint was raised. When Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders response it was referred to 
this service, where one of my ombudsman colleagues issued a final decision. During the 
course of that complaint, Mr S raised additional complaint points about the mortgage, which 
were then looked into by Santander. 
Santander responded to the new complaint points. It said that as the account was being 
managed by its solicitors, he would have to discuss the arrears with them. However, it had 
been issuing quarterly statements which showed the payments made and the arrears 
balance. It said if Mr S wanted to discuss payment arrangements, including setting up a 
direct debit mandate, he needed to speak to the solicitors. Santander didnt uphold the 
complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint. He said he hadnt seen any evidence 
Mr S had asked to pay by direct debit or that Santander had declined such a request. If Mr S 
wanted to pay in a different way, it would be for him to contact Santanders solicitors, which 
was currently overseeing the account, to discuss the options. The investigator was satisfied 
Santander was sending Mr S documentation to allow him to know what payments had been 
received. However, it was suggested that Santander provide Mr S with copies to allow him to 
check all that the payments he had made were included. 
In addition, the investigator explained that as the court order hadnt been complied with, it 
wasnt unreasonable for Santander to keep Mr S updated about any potential legal action 
being considered or undertaken. Overall, the investigator didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly, so he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Subsequently, our investigator 
forwarded a copy of an account breakdown detailing payments due and made, which 
Santander had provided us as part of its file.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said he thought the investigator had 
taken a too simplistic view of the complaint. in addition, he didnt think his concerns about 
the ambiguity from Santander were being taken seriously.
Subsequently Mr S said that he thinks Santander didnt want him to pay by direct debit 
because if he made payments in cash, it could claim the payments werent made. He also 
said that he found communicating with Santanders legal representatives confusing. In 
addition, he accused the legal representatives of sending wrong information to this service. 
He suggested that Santander stopped playing games and acknowledged that he had made 
all the £206 payments, even during a payment holiday, alongside the CMP when applicable. 
He said the fact that it had not acknowledged his payments, in his view, clearly showed its 
attempts to create ambiguity so that it could repossess his property. He also said that he 
didnt understand why Santander wouldnt communicate with him directly. He thought this 
was evidence of racism and him being treated differently from other customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Before considering the merits of this complaint, I would confirm that I will not be revisiting 
any of Mr S previous complaints, whether referred to this service or not. I will solely be 
commenting on the merits of the complaint detailed above in the complaint section of this 
document. In addition, I note that in his final submissions on this complaint, he raised a new 
issue  that the interest rate he is paying didnt reduce in early 2021 to reflect changes in 
Bank of England base rate. This new complaint point would have to be raised with 
Santander in the first instance, as it has the right to respond to any complaint made before 
this service becomes involved.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I would firstly confirm that when an account is in arrears, the regulator sets out how any 
payments made to the account should be allocated. The first being the payment of the CMP, 
followed by payment of the arrears and then the interest on the arrears, charges and fees 
balance. So while Mr S has made separate payments in the belief they will cover the amount 
he is meant to be paying toward the arrears under the court order, those funds will not 
always have been attributed to that use if he didnt pay enough to cover the CMP as well. 
Indeed, I note that there have been some months where Mr S has made payments that were 
significantly less than the CMP, so in those months all of the payment made would have 
gone to pay the CMP. 
In relation to Mr S concern that Santander hasnt been registering the amounts hes been 
paying, I am satisfied it has been sending him quarterly statements detailing the payments 
and the arrears balance. I note he has said he hasnt received these documents, but they 
have been correctly addressed, there is no record of them being returned as undelivered 
and I note that Mr S has received other correspondence from Santander. I think it more likely 
than not that Mr S has received the statements. 
I have considered Mr S comments about the payments hes made and how he considers 
that Santander hasnt registered some of those payments on the account, in order to allow it 
to repossess his property. It is not unknown for transactions not to be attributed to a 
mortgage or other form of account. However, our investigator provided Mr S with a 
breakdown from Santander showing what payments it had recorded against the mortgage 
and the dates of the payments in order to allow Mr S to check his records and identify any 
that were missing. He had plenty of time to do so before the complaint was passed to me for 
consideration, but he hasnt said any of his payments werent recorded in Santanders 
records. On that basis, I am not persuaded on the current evidence Santander has failed to 
allocate any payments to the mortgage. 
I note that Mr S isnt happy that Santander wants him to deal with its legal representatives 
and he has indicated he thinks this is because of his ethnicity and racism. I am not 
persuaded that is the case. It is normal practice for a lenders legal representative to deal 
with the day-to-day activities on a mortgage account where there is, or potentially will be, 
legal action. In this case, the legal representatives took over administering the mortgage 
when legal action was about to start and they have been in place ever since, as the 
mortgage remained in arrears and the court order hasnt been consistently complied with. I 
dont think Santander has done anything wrong in this respect and I have seen no evidence 
it has treated Mr S differently from any other customer in a similar position.
In addition, a lender is required to keep a consumer up to date with their account. This is 
especially so when the account is in arrears and there is, or there is the potential for, legal 
action being taken. As such, I dont think Santander has acted incorrectly when notifying 
Mr S of its intentions about legal action or indeed the recent change in the legal firm it is 
using. Further, if a mortgage is on a variable interest rate, especially where the payments 
are not being made by direct debit, it is essential for a consumer to know how much they 
need to pay, hence notifications of changes to the interest rate. 
In addition, while Santander may want to provide a positive experience to its customers and 
build strong relationships with them, there are some circumstances where that is unlikely to 
happen. That doesnt mean the lender has done anything wrong, as an individuals 
experience of something will vary depending on the person. It is unlikely, for example, for a 
customer to find the process surrounding repossession as a positive experience. 
Mr S has complained that he hasnt been given the option to pay by direct debit. I note that 
originally the mortgage was paid by this method, but the mandate was cancelled quite early 
in Mr S financial difficulties. So I am satisfied that Mr S would have been aware he had this option. However, he has been making payments in cash at a branch of the lender since the 
court order. If Mr S wanted to change how he paid his mortgage, be that by standing order 
from a bank account or by direct debit, it would be for him to initiate that change.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
17 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman