DRN-4078695
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about their breakdown insurer Ageas Insurance Limited, as 
they say it mis-diagnosed a fault with their car which caused them financial loss.
Ageas underwrites the policy Mr and Mrs G have, but it is branded in another companys 
name. The engineer sent to the breakdown was from another company also. Ageas is 
responsible as the underwriter for the actions of its agents. So my decision will refer only to 
Ageas.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Gs car wouldnt start  when turning the key items on the dashboard would 
flash, the radio would come on, and there was a clicking noise, but the engine wouldnt fire. 
They thought it might be a flat battery. They called Ageas. An engineer attended and said it 
was not the battery  that the car would need to go to a garage for repair. As it was getting 
late in the evening, it wasnt possible for the car to be recovered that day. When the car was 
taken to a garage, they couldnt look at it for a few days. The garage diagnosed (and 
replaced) a flat battery. 
Mr and Mrs G felt Ageas had let them down. They said if a correct diagnosis had been made 
by Ageas engineer, they would have avoided the disruption and cost of having their car 
taken to the garage for repair. They said they could have bought a battery and fitted it 
themselves. Ageas didnt think it had done anything wrong, it said that the policy explains 
that it cant guarantee a correct diagnosis will be made on the roadside. Mr and Mrs G 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs G said they had followed the engineers instructions to take the car to 
a garage as it was not suffering a flat battery. But the engineer had been plain wrong, so 
they couldnt understand how Ageas wasnt responsible for the losses which flowed from 
that error. Their complaint was passed to an Ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as that of our Investigator. And for the 
same reasons.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy with Ageas is designed to assist them in emergencies. An engineer 
will try and get the car started  or it can be towed to a garage. Here the engineer couldnt 
get the car to start so it was taken to a garage. So, strictly speaking, the policy requirements 
were fulfilled. However, Mr and Mrs G contend it was only necessary for the car to be towed 
to a garage because the engineer said the fault was definitely not with the battery. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G relied upon the engineers diagnosis. But I must also bear in 
mind that the policy is not designed to be an alternative to the full diagnostic and repair 
service a garage offers. The policy even allows for the fact that, due to the nature of the 
service, any diagnosis by the engineer cant be guaranteed (because of the limited way in 
which they work  within certain time restrictions and at the roadside). So, whilst the garage 
and the engineer came to different conclusions about what was wrong with Mr and Mr Gs 
car, that didnt amount to them being treated unfairly and unreasonably. As such, I cant 
reasonably find Ageas is liable for the costs Mr and Mrs G incurred as a result of Ageas 
engineers diagnosis.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman