DRN-1841504
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, won't refund him for online 
banking transfers out of his account which he says he didn't make or authorise. He also 
complains that Halifax closed his account. His complaint is brought on his behalf by his 
partner. 
What happened
On 30 and 31 December 2019 five online payments totalling £1,140 debited Mr H's current 
account. He thinks someone known to him set up online banking access to make the 
transfers. He phoned the bank on 31 December to check his balance and found out about 
the transactions. 
Halifax investigated and concluded that Mr H had re-set his online banking and made the 
transfers himself. It wouldn't refund the payments and gave Mr H two months' notice that it 
was closing his account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Mr H had re-activated his online banking; that the phone number he gave was the one used 
to authorise a new payee to whom the payments were made; and that Mr H didn't dispute a 
£50 online banking transaction which took place around the same time as the disputed 
transactions. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that it wasn't him who made the payments and the 
mobile phone number given wasn't his. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have however reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons. 
Mr H says he had not used online banking for some time. His online account access was 
reactivated following a phone call with the bank on 28 December 2019. Mr H says the call 
was made by an individual pretending to be him. 
I've considered this very carefully. I've listened to the call several times and I've listened to 
other calls Mr H had with the bank and with us. I agree with our investigator that, in all 
likelihood the caller on 28 December was Mr H. I say this because: 
The voice of the caller on 28 December sounds the same as the voice which we 
know for sure is Mr H. 
During the 28 December call, the caller was required to give information about three recent transactions on his account. There's no explanation for how a caller other than 
Mr H would have known the answers to these questions. 
During the 28 December call, the caller was asked to provide some information from 
his bank card. Mr H has not reported his card lost or stolen so there's no explanation 
for how a caller other than Mr H would have known the answers to these questions. 
 
So, I find it is more likely than not that it was Mr H who reactivated his online banking on 28 
December. During that call he confirmed his mobile number as being the same as that held 
on the bank's records. When a new payee was set up online, a message was sent to that 
number as part of the authorisation process. Mr H has given various explanations for who 
this phone number belonged to. And I've taken into account that he may have difficulties 
remembering numbers. But as I've decided it was him who gave the number to the bank, it 
follows that I think he must have given his own phone number. And it was this number the 
bank used to set up the new payee. If Mr H didn't recognise the payee, I would have 
expected him to query it when he received the message. 
Although Mr H says he did not have access to online banking, he has not disputed an online 
transaction of £50 which took place at 7.19pm on 30 December. Two of the disputed 
transactions took place on the same evening at 7.02pm and 7.20pm. This points to them all 
being carried out by the same person. As Mr H hasn't disputed the £50 transaction, I think it 
most likely that all the payments were made by him. 
The bank gave Mr H two months notice that it was closing his account. Whilst I accept this 
was inconvenient, I find the bank acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
In arriving at my decision, I have taken into account Mr H's vulnerabilities and his personal 
financial circumstances. I understand the disputed transactions left him without any money at 
a difficult time of year. But, as I have found Mr H authorised the transactions, I can't order 
the bank to refund them.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman