DRN-3941031
The complaint
Ms M complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) has not 
treated her fairly when she sought a refund of money shed paid on her Amex card towards a 
property investing course.
What happened
When I was passed this case to review I considered both parties would benefit from a more 
complete explanation of our initial investigators recommendations. I therefore wrote to both 
Amex and Ms M with my initial thoughts on how the complaint should be resolved and why. 
For this reason, I wont go into great detail about the background of the case. But in 
summary:
Ms M signed up to a property investing course with a company Ill call TS in 
February 2020. She agreed to pay £15,594 for the course, which she partially funded 
with her Amex credit card. The course was advertised as being for 12 months with 
primarily face to face delivery of the course content.
Ms M attended one face to face session in March 2020 before the coronavirus 
pandemic led to national lockdowns which prevented further in-person sessions from 
going ahead. TS offered students the option of continuing the course, adapted to an 
online format, or suspending the course until such time as conditions allowed for it to 
be delivered face to face. Ms M was persuaded by TS that it would be able to deliver 
the course online and agreed to continue.
However, Ms M was greatly disappointed with the online course, which she felt was 
substantially different to what she had agreed to pay for. She did not find that the 
online delivery suited the networking-focused style of the course, and was generally 
dissatisfied with the quality of the services provided by TS. She attended one online 
mentoring session and then a catch-up with a mentor in June 2020. She cancelled 
her subsequent mentoring sessions and then complained in September 2020, asking 
for a refund.
TS rejected Ms Ms complaint, although it did accept that the course had been 
advertised as face to face and that parts of it had been jeopardised by the move to 
an online format. Ms M took her complaint to a different ombudsman service, directly 
against TS. At about the same time she also contacted Amex to raise a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Ms M had lodged her claim with Amex in December 2020. Amex then became aware 
of the involvement of the other ombudsman service in February 2021. It told Ms M 
that it would no longer be looking at her section 75 claim because the terms and 
conditions of her credit card said she was not allowed to pursue claims through 
multiple avenues. Ms M was unhappy about this decision and complained  with that 
complaint subsequently being referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In the meantime, the other ombudsman scheme made a decision about the 
complaint with TS. It said TS had offered a partial refund of about £1,700 for 
mentoring sessions Ms M hadnt attended by the time she decided to stop the 
course, and it thought this was fair. Ms M didnt accept this offer and continued her 
case with this service, where it was looked into by one of our investigators. At this 
point, Amex made an offer of £50 compensation for providing poor customer service.
Our investigator initially didnt think the complaint should be upheld, but later 
changed his mind and recommended Amex refund 50% of the amounts Ms M had 
paid for the course, rework her account, pay 8% compensatory interest where 
applicable, and pay an additional £200 compensation in relation to it having 
unreasonably refused to look into Ms Ms section 75 claim. Amex disagreed, 
questioning where the breach of contract was by TS which meant a refund was due, 
and standing by its decision to stop looking as Ms Ms claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I wrote to both parties, broadly making the 
following observations and findings:
A key point in the promotional material for the course had indicated it was meant to 
have primarily face-to-face delivery, and TS had accepted, when initially responding 
to Ms Ms concerns, that she had paid for in-person training and aspects of the 
course had been jeopardised by the move to online delivery.
I thought it was a term of the contract with TS that Ms M would receive in-person 
training, and the failure by TS to provide this apart from one pre-pandemic session, 
was a breach of contract which was significant enough for Ms M to be able to 
terminate the contract. Ms M had been persuaded by TS initially that she should give 
the online format a go, but I didnt think this meant she was prevented from 
terminating the contract for breach when the online format turned out to be 
unsatisfactory.
It could be difficult to calculate appropriate damages for a breach of a contract for 
services. The courts had discouraged taking too fine-toothed an approach to this. 
One way of calculating damages was to work out the difference in value between 
what had been paid for and what had been provided. Ms M had attended two out of 
12 mentoring sessions, two specialist workshops, and had also had access to an 
online knowledge library. TS had told the other ombudsman service that this was all 
worth £13,882.20, of which each mentoring session had been worth £835.20. 
However, the maths didnt add up so I didnt feel I could put much weight on TSs 
calculations. Our investigator had recommended a backdated 50% refund plus 8% 
simple interest where applicable. I considered it could be argued that the value of the 
services Ms M had received was either or more or less than this but, looking at things 
in the round, I thought our investigators recommendation was a fair one. Due to the 
effect of section 75 of the CCA, Ms M was able to claim this redress from Amex 
instead of TS.
I thought it had been inappropriate of Amex to decide not to look at Ms Ms claim 
when it became aware of the involvement of another ombudsman service in her 
complaint to TS. Amex had sought to justify its decision by pointing to its terms and 
conditions saying that Ms M couldnt make any other claim against a retailer or third 
party. But I noted that the terms and conditions didnt say what Amex thought they 
did. They only said that Ms M agreed not to make any other claim if she had received 
a refund from Amex already, which she hadnt. I considered there were more 
reasonable courses of action Amex could have taken, such as explaining to Ms M 
that she would not be able to recover the same losses twice (double recovery) and 
that it would need to wait for the other ombudsman scheme to make a ruling before it could give her an answer on her claim. I thought the additional £200 compensation 
recommended by our investigator for the impact of this was fair.
Both parties responded to my informal findingds. Amex said that, in order to get the matter 
resolved, it would accept what Id said. Ms M also broadly accepted my informal findings but 
said she thought the amount of compensation should be higher. She said she had felt Amex 
should be on notice not to dismiss or push under the rug consumer claims just because 
they dont want to take the time to understand them or because its not in their interest to 
understand them.
Because full agreement couldnt be reached on the question of compensation, I must now 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a degree of protection when they pay for goods or 
services using a credit card. So long as certain technical conditions are met, they are able to 
claim against their credit card issuer in respect of any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services.
It's not been argued that the technical conditions (relating to the price of the goods or 
services, and how they were paid for) for Ms M to make a claim under section 75 have not 
been met, so about this I will say only that having reviewed the available evidence, I am 
satisfied that the conditions are met.
Ive explained already in this decision why I think TS was in breach of contract and a refund 
of 50% of what she paid would be a fair award in respect of this. Neither party to the case 
has expressed disagreement with my reasoning or conclusions, so I see no reason to depart 
from them.
Regarding the £250 compensation (including the amount Amex has already offered), Ms M 
has said she thinks this should be higher. Ms Ms reasoning for thinking it should be higher 
appears to be for it to have a punitive or deterrent effect on Amex  to discourage it from 
dismissing consumer claims. The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to 
make awards for the purpose of punishing or fining a business. The purpose of 
compensation is to reflect the non-financial impact of something wrong which a financial 
business has done (or failed to do).  
In this case, Amex wrongly declined to consider Ms Ms section 75 claim after it became 
aware of the involvement of another ombudsman service. The result of this was a degree of 
delay in Ms Ms claim being heard, and disappointment on her part. Overall, I remain of the 
view that a figure of £250 is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct American Express 
Services Europe Limited to take the following actions:
1) Refund to Ms M 50% of the total amount that she paid to TS for the property 
investing course (including payments not made on her Amex card).
2) The refund in 1) above should be treated as though it had been made on the date American Express Services Europe Limited communicated to Ms M that it was no 
longer going to look into her section 75 claim. This means any fees, interest or 
charges on the credit card account will need to be recalculated and refunds of these 
provided where they should not have been incurred. If the refund means a credit 
balance would have arisen on Ms Ms account at any time, 8% simple interest per 
year* should be paid on that credit balance, calculated from the date the credit 
balance would have arisen, to the date it would have ceased.
3) Pay Ms M a total of £250 compensation. If it has already paid part of this to Ms M (for 
example, the £50 offered previously), it only needs to pay the remaining amount.
*If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Ms M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman