DRN-3047726
The complaint
Miss H and Mr L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to cancel a compromised debit 
card, leading to further fraudulent transactions. 
What happened
In December 2020 Barclays contacted Miss H and Mr L to say a debit card had been 
compromised. Barclays said it would send Miss H a replacement and that the existing card 
would be cancelled within 28 days. 
Two further fraudulent transactions were taken from the account in February 2021. Barclays 
refunded the transactions and explained Miss Hs debit card hadnt been cancelled as 
promised. Barclays also paid Miss H and Mr L £100 to apologise. 
Miss H and Mr L referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
Miss H and Mr L told us they were hoping to purchase a property around this time and that 
the situation caused an unreasonable level of distress. Miss H and Mr L have explained they 
were particularly concerned about the potential for direct debits to go unpaid. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mr L 
asked to appeal and said the Miss H now feels unable to trust Barclays or use her bank 
account and that they were considering changing bank. As Miss H and Mr L asked to 
appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties broadly agree about the circumstances and timeline for this complaint. Its clear 
debit card details were compromised in December 2020. Barclays says it sent a replacement 
debit card to Miss H at this time, but it wasnt subsequently used. It appears the card wasnt 
received. Barclays told Miss H and Mr L the compromised card would be cancelled but it 
wasnt. As a result, further fraudulent transactions were carried out. 
I understand Miss H and Mr L were particularly concerned that direct debits may have gone 
unpaid which could have, in turn, impacted a mortgage application. Mr L has explained that 
Miss H was particularly upset and the situation impacted her mental health. I dont doubt 
what Miss H and Mr L have told us about the impact of the issues raised. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve this complaint. Whilst I agree there was potential for 
the issues raised to have wider implications for Miss H and Mr L, no direct debits went 
unpaid and Barclays refunded the fraudulent transactions. So theres been no financial loss. 
And none of the issues raised appear to have caused problems for a mortgage application. 
Barclays paid Miss H and Mr L £100 and apologised for what happened. I understand how 
upsetting the situation was for both Miss H and Mr L, but I think £100 is a fair reflection of the 
situation as a whole and the impact on them. The compensation Barclays has paid is very 
much in line with what I wouldve awarded, had no offer been made. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Miss H and Mr L but I havent been persuaded to increase the award further. 
As Im satisfied Barclays dealt with Miss H and Mr Ls complaint fairly, Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman