DRN-2351495
The complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited charged him for a 
replacement tyre under his maintenance contract.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered int a hire agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement included a maintenance and tyre plan for servicing and tyres.
Around a week before the agreement ended, Mr P noticed a tear on one of the front tyres. 
As he had previously replaced tyres under the maintenance and tyre plan, he took the car to 
the designated tyre supplier and had the damaged tyre replaced. Following this, VWFS 
advised Mr P that it wouldnt cover the cost of the replacement tyre under the maintenance 
and tyre plan.
Mr P paid the tyre supplier himself and complained to VWFS. He asked for a refund.
In response, VWFS said that the maintenance plan dint cover damaged tyres, only worn 
tyres.
Mr P wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the documents clearly explained that 
the hirer had to pay for replacement tyres where the damage was due to causes other than 
wear and tear.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he wasnt told, when he took out the maintenance and tyre plan, 
that there were exemptions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that the maintenance and tyre plan was mis-sold to Mr P, I would need to be 
satisfied that the salesperson had made an untrue statement of fact which induced him to 
take out the plan.
Mr P has said that when he took out the plan, he specifically requested that replacement 
tyres were covered, as well as servicing. He says he was never told that there were any 
exclusions on the tyre element of the plan and feels hat he should have been advised of any 
exemptions prior to taking out the plan.
Because I wasnt present when Mr P discussed the plan with the broker, I cant be certain of 
exactly what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the documents which 
came into existence at the time  and take account of the wider circumstances of the case - 
in order to decided whats most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and the maintenance and tyre plan. Im satisfied that 
these documents contain all the key features. In particular, I can see that the documents 
state clearly that the consumer (Mr P) is responsible for the cost of replacement tyres where 
the damage has been caused by external factors such as a kerb or a puncture.
Mr P has signed the agreement and in doing so, has agreed to be legally bound by the terms 
and conditions.
I appreciate that Mr P feels that any exclusions should have been drawn to his attention. 
However, I think the key features  and exclusions  are clearly stated in the plan. If Mr P 
had any queries about the extent of cover under the plan, he could have raised these at the 
time. I cant see that he did this.
I havent seen anything to suggest that the tyre plan was misrepresented to Mr P. On 
balance, Im unable to say that the plan was mis-sold, or that the terms werent clear. 
Therefore, I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman