DRN-2359694
The complaint
Mrs E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to process a Standing Order which meant 
she was removed from a company share scheme.
What happened
Mrs E says she went to a HSBC branch with a completed Standing Order for payments to a 
company share scheme she was a member of. She says that some months later she was 
told that she had been removed from the scheme due to a lack of payments into it and 
realised HSBC hadnt correctly processed the Standing Order. Mrs E says she spent some 
time trying to sort matters out and in attending a HSBC branch and although she was 
allowed back in the share scheme says she could have lost a significant amount of money. 
She says the gesture of goodwill offer of £100 is an insult and not enough for what 
happened and for what could have happened.
HSBC says it doesnt have a record of the Standing Order and says it spoke to the company 
that runs the share scheme and it agreed to allow Mrs Es return. It says it was told by that 
company that it had sent Mrs E a number of letters about the missed payments and so she 
ought to have realised there was an issue. HSBC says Mrs E hasnt suffered a loss but 
accepts she attended a branch and has offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs E brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the goodwill gesture fair and reasonable and took account of the fact that Mrs E 
didnt suffer any financial loss. The investigator also thought Mrs E would have received 
warning letters about the payment problem and HSBC acted fairly by speaking to the share 
scheme company and explaining what happened.
Mrs E doesnt accept that view and maintains the mistake could have had significant 
implications and doesnt accept receiving any warning letters. She says the mistake affected 
her health and caused stress when she was on maternity leave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable 
goodwill offer of £100 and I dont require it to increase that award. I realise Mrs E will be 
disappointed by my decision.
It is not clear what took place about the Standing Order. I have no reason to doubt what Mrs 
E says that she handed the form in but equally I have no reason to conclude HSBC made a 
mistake as it says it doesnt have a record of that. I accept that Mrs E would have been 
concerned and caused distress to find out she had been removed from the share scheme 
and its not clear why she didnt receive any of the letters from the share scheme company. 
But I think the important point is that HSBC spoke to the company and it agreed to allow Mrs 
E to re-join it. I find in those circumstances Mrs E didnt suffer any financial loss and I cant 
fairly consider what may have happened as Mrs E was allowed back into the scheme. 
Im also satisfied that HSBC has fairly offered a goodwill gesture payment of £100 which I 
think fairly reflects the inconvenience Mrs E was caused in trying to find out what took place 
and for the time she spent in a HSBC branch. I find that offer is fair and reasonable and as I 
have made clear, reflects the fact that Mrs E didnt suffer a financial loss and whatever took 
place, there were not the significant implications, she says could have taken place.
I appreciate that Mrs E feels very strongly about what took place and that she should be paid 
a greater compensation amount. But Im satisfied that HSBC has acted fairly and the 
problem with the share scheme company was resolved quickly. I will leave it to Mrs E to 
decide if she wishes to accept HSBCs offer which I understand is still available to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable goodwill 
gesture of £100. Mrs Es acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman