DRN-1617584
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the customer service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) when 
he called to dispute cash transaction fees on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr T called Lloyds to query a cash transaction fee on his credit card account. However, he 
felt that the agent didnt provide a satisfactory standard of customer service and made a 
complaint. Lloyds didnt agree and voided his complaint by mistake. It refunded the 
transaction fees and offered Mr T £50 by way of apology for voiding his complaint. He 
rejected its offer because he felt it didnt go far enough to compensate him for five hours of 
his time and the poor service he experienced. As a resolution he asked for £450.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He listened to the call recordings and, while 
the calls didnt go well, he thought that Lloyds had managed the calls as he wouldve 
expected it to. Although Lloyds made an offer of £50 for its mistake in voiding Mr Ts 
complaint, our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do any more.
Mr T didnt agree. He thought the facts of his complaint hadnt been considered.
The complaint was passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr T will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I understand that Mr T is unhappy with the way Lloyds treated him during his call to query a 
cash transaction fee on his credit card account. He feels that Lloyds was rude and ended the 
calls without reason. Ive listened to the recordings and Im satisfied that Lloyds managed 
the calls reasonably in the circumstances. 
Its clear that the calls didnt go well. I think the agents became frustrated with Mr T but I 
didnt hear anything which caused me to think they were rude. The agents maintained a 
consistent, polite and professional approach throughout the calls, and tried to keep the 
conversation relevant to the matter in hand.
Its clear that Mr T also became frustrated during the calls. He wanted questions to be asked 
in a particular way and for the agents to answer his questions without giving any extra 
information which, in itself, isnt necessarily unreasonable. However, I can understand why 
Lloyds agents felt some of the more personal comments werent appropriate. The agents 
told Mr T that they would disconnect the call if he continued to make comments they didnt 
like and they followed through with that action. I think thats fair. Both Lloyds and Mr T can expect a reasonable level of courtesy during calls. While agents will be used to having 
challenging conversations with customers who are understandably upset about something, it 
isnt fair for them to listen to personal comments which they consider insulting. 
Its not for me to assign blame or say whether the comments were insulting. My role is to 
look at what Lloyds did and whether it was reasonable. Its agents felt insulted by some of Mr 
Ts comments and asked him to stop. He made further comments so the agents decided to 
terminate the call. I think that was reasonable so there is nothing for Lloyds to compensate 
Mr T for.
Finally, there isnt a dispute about the fact that Lloyds voided Mr Ts first complaint. I can 
understand that it wouldve frustrated him and it was appropriate for Lloyds to acknowledge 
its mistake. Lloyds raised a complaint for Mr T about the cash transaction fee and the 
agents attitude. It voided the complaint immediately by mistake. This caused some 
confusion during the following conversation but Lloyds apologised and raised the complaint 
again. Lloyds wrote to Mr T with the outcome of its investigation within ten days of his 
original query about the correctly raised fees. Mr T doesnt think its offer of £50 is enough, 
but I think the inconvenience it wouldve caused is relatively minimal. So, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds immediate apology, followed by a written apology for its mistake is enough.
Lloyds confirmed that its offer of £50 is still available to settle the complaint. Mr T should 
contact Lloyds directly if he now wishes to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman