DRN-3290340
The complaint
Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice and level of service provided by Lemonade 
LLP trading as Informed Pensions (Informed Pensions). He complains that Informed 
Pensions advised him to start an unsuitable self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
provided by Parmenion Capital Partners LLP (Parmenion). He also complains that 
Informed Pensions was responsible for a delay in switching the value of the Parmenion SIPP 
to cash, resulting in a financial loss of £4,352.
Mr P has referred two separate complaints to this service. The first complaint, which Ive 
considered under this final decision, is about Mr Ps financial adviser, Informed Pensions. 
The second complaint, which Ive considered under a separate final decision, is about the 
SIPP provider, Parmenion.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her 
assessment which she provided to both Mr P and Informed Pensions. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary of the key events and 
dates. 
Mr P had built up safeguarded benefits in his former employers defined benefits 
pension scheme. The cash equivalent transfer value of those benefits was £163,983. 
In addition to his safeguarded benefits, Mr P had an existing SIPP and defined 
contribution workplace pension plan. He was interested in transferring the value of 
his safeguarded benefits to his existing SIPP. However, since the transfer value was 
greater than £30,000, he was required to obtain advice. In October 2019, he 
contacted Informed Pensions to obtain advice. The cost of Informed Pensions advice 
was covered by Mr Ps former employer;
On 18 December 2019, Informed Pensions issued a suitability report to Mr P. It 
recommended that he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits valued at 
£163,983 to a new SIPP provided by Parmenion. Informed Pensions recommended 
that the Parmenion SIPP be invested in a medium-risk investment portfolio managed 
on a discretionary basis to align with Mr Ps recorded risk profile. Mr P agreed for 
Informed Pensions to provide ongoing advice, the cost of which would be deducted 
from the Parmenion SIPP. The annual advice fee was based on 0.29% of the 
Parmenion SIPP fund value. Informed Pensions explained that it had discounted a 
transfer to Mr Ps existing SIPP or defined contribution workplace pension plan since 
they had higher charges and because he didnt want to pay Informed Pensions 
ongoing advice fee separately (which wouldve been a requirement if either of those 
two options were selected);
On 14 February 2020, Parmenion received the transfer value of £163,983 from the 
defined benefits pension scheme;
On 19 February 2020, Parmenion received the transfer confirmation documentation it 
required to invest the transfer value in the agreed medium-risk investment portfolio. 
Upon receipt of those documents, it automatically started the investment process. In 
the evening, outside office hours, Mr P emailed Informed Pensions and instructed it 
to arrange for the transfer value received by the Parmenion SIPP to be held in cash. 
He stated, the investment profile looks wrong and I would like to have a review of 
it!. He didnt specify in that email why it looked wrong;
On 20 February 2020, there were several calls between Mr P, his adviser at Informed 
Pensions and Parmenion. Essentially, Mr P wanted to re-confirm his instruction for 
the transfer value to be held in cash. The outcome of the calls was that Parmenion 
said the investment process which had started on 19 February 2020 was still in 
motion and that nothing could be done until the following day, at which point Informed 
Pensions would need to provide a switch instruction using Parmenions online 
system;
On 21 February 2020, Informed Pensions instructed Parmenion to switch the value of 
Mr Ps SIPP to cash using Parmenions online system;
On 22 February 2020, Mr P sent an email to Informed Pensions to complain that it 
hadnt followed his instruction to switch the value of the SIPP to cash;
On 24 February 2020, which was the next working day after Informed Pensions 
instruction on 21 February 2020, Parmenion completed the fund switch to cash;
On 25 February 2020, Informed Pensions emailed Mr P to confirm that the fund 
switch to cash had been completed; and
Mr P instructed Parmenion to transfer the value of his SIPP to his existing SIPP with 
a different provider. That switch was completed on 2 March 2020 based on a transfer 
value of £159,631. This was £4,352 less than the transfer value of £163,983 received 
from the defined benefits pension scheme. The reduction in fund value upset Mr P.
This complaint
Mr P complained to Informed Pensions about the suitability of the advice and level of service 
it had provided. He said, in summary, the following:
During the advice process in 2019 he made clear that he wanted to transfer the value 
of his safeguarded benefits to his existing SIPP so that hed have full control of the 
£163,983. But Informed Pensions dismissed that option. Instead it recommended the 
Parmenion SIPP and led him to believe that hed have full control of it including the 
ability to self-select investment funds without the input or involvement of Informed 
Pensions. However, this wasnt the case because Informed Pensions put in place 
ongoing advice and acted as a gatekeeper to the SIPP;
Informed Pensions recommended the Parmenion SIPP in favour of his existing SIPP 
and defined contribution workplace pension plan because it maximised the fees it 
would earn compared to the alternative options;
Informed Pensions failed to explicitly tell him that he wouldnt have full control of the 
Parmenion SIPP or that fund switches wouldnt happen in real time;
He was frustrated with the difficulty between 20 and 25 February in trying to get hold 
of the Informed Pensions adviser he had been dealing with. He said that this led to an undue delay in switching the value of the Parmenion SIPP to cash following his 
instruction on 19 February 2020, resulting in a financial loss of £4,352; and
Informed Pensions and Parmenion colluded to cover up its errors that led to him 
suffering the financial loss.
Informed Pensions didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said, in summary, the following:
There wasnt any evidence it had told Mr P or implied that hed have full control of the 
Parmenion SIPP including the ability to self-select investment funds without the input 
or involvement of Informed Pensions. On the contrary, the basis of its 
recommendation was that, after the pension transfer, he agreed it would continue to 
provide ongoing pension management advice, the cost of which would be an annual 
fee based on 0.29% of the Parmenion SIPP fund value;
The total annual charge for the Parmenion SIPP and its ongoing adviser charge was 
0.73%, as stated in its suitability report and illustration. This total charge was lower 
than Mr Ps existing SIPP and defined contribution workplace pension plan; 
The financial loss of £4,352 claimed by Mr P was due to market movements before 
the fund switch to cash was carried out on 24 February 2020; and
Mr P decided to instruct the fund switch to cash and subsequent transfer to his other 
SIPP with a different provider. These actions were contrary to its recommendation. 
Therefore, it couldnt be held responsible for any financial loss flowing from Mr Ps 
decisions and actions.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She concluded 
that Mr P wasnt told or misled into believing hed have full control of the Parmenion SIPP 
including the ability to self-select investment funds without the input or involvement of 
Informed Pensions. And she didnt think the fund switch to cash on 24 February 2020 
couldve happened any sooner than it did and so didnt agree Informed Pensions was 
responsible for the financial loss of £4,352 claimed by Mr P. But she did think Informed 
Pensions couldve done a better job of keeping Mr P informed between                                             
20 and 25 February 2020 regarding the fund switch. She thought that the lack of contact 
during this period wouldve caused Mr P unnecessary distress. So she recommended that it 
pay £250 compensation to Mr P in respect of this.
Informed Pension accepted our investigators recommendation to pay £250 compensation to 
Mr P. But he didnt accept this. In response, he asked our investigator to establish with 
Informed Pensions and Parmenion whether theyd be willing to settle for a total 
compensation figure of £6,000, split between both businesses. Informed Pensions didnt 
agree. Our investigator considered Mr Ps additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change the outcome of her assessment. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Scope of this final decision 
Mr P has referred to this service two separate complaints about Informed Pensions and 
Parmenion. Under this final decision Ive only considered the acts or omissions of Informed 
Pensions in its dealings with Mr P. Ive considered Mr Ps complaint about Parmenion under 
a separate final decision.
Mr P confirmed to our investigator that this complaint isnt about the suitability of Informed 
Pensions pension transfer advice to relinquish his safeguarded benefits. Rather, hes 
complained about the suitability of the recommended Parmenion SIPP as the destination to 
receive the transfer value in favour of alternative options, namely his existing SIPP with a 
different provider. He was unhappy with the Parmenion SIPP because he didnt have full 
control of it including the ability to self-select investment funds without the input or 
involvement of Informed Pensions. Hes also complained that there was an undue delay in 
switching the value of the Parmenion SIPP to cash following his instruction to Informed 
Pensions on 19 February 2020. He said that the delay led to him suffering a financial loss of 
£4,352. Ive limited my assessment of this complaint to these considerations.
Subject Access Request and request for an oral hearing
Before this complaint was referred to me, Mr P submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) 
to this service to release information that we hold about him. Information was provided to 
him in line with Article 15 of the UK General Data Protection Regulation. Certain information 
was redacted from the SAR. We explained why to Mr P. Despite this, he wasnt satisfied with 
the response and alleged that this service was withholding information to prevent him from 
providing a full response to our investigators assessment. But he didnt provide details of the 
specific information he thought was missing, despite being asked multiple times.
In his most recent contact with this service, Mr P requested that I hold an oral hearing so that 
he can make a full personal representation because he continues to believe that this service 
has withheld information. I dont think an oral hearing is necessary. Oral hearings arent 
designed for the parties to plead their case or to cross-examine the other party  theyre only 
granted by an ombudsman if they think it will help them get to the bottom of what happened 
and to ultimately make a decision. In this case, I dont think a hearing is necessary because 
Im satisfied that theres sufficient documentary evidence already provided by the parties to 
enable me to reach a fair and reasonable decision. 
My findings
The purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by 
Informed Pensions and Mr P. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Having considered the evidence, I 
agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for the following reasons:
In a phone call in November 2019, Informed Pensions told Mr P that if it advised him 
and recommended a transfer then it would be responsible for the initial and ongoing 
suitability of the arrangement, including how the underlying investment funds in the 
SIPP would be invested. And that this meant he wouldnt be able to fully control the 
SIPP or self-select investment funds independently without its involvement or input.
The suitability report and illustration provided to Mr P in December 2019 confirmed 
that the Parmenion SIPP would be managed by a discretionary fund manager who would, in exchange for an annual charge of 0.44% of the SIPP fund value, monitor 
and adjust the underlying investment funds to maintain alignment with his agreed 
medium risk profile. In addition to this, Mr P agreed to pay Informed Pensions an 
annual fee of 0.29% of the SIPP fund value to provide ongoing pension management 
advice. So Im satisfied that Mr P understood and accepted the basis upon which the 
SIPP would be invested and managed by Parmenion and Informed Pensions.
In his email of 19 February 2020 to Informed Pensions, Mr P stated, the investment 
profile looks wrong and I would like to have a review of it!. But the investment profile 
and investment strategy were what he agreed with in December 2019. I cannot see 
any evidence Mr P mentioned any concerns about this before his email of                      
19 February 2020. So Im not convinced it was wrong. It seems to me that during the 
interim period between accepting the recommendation in December 2019 and 
transfer being completed in February 2020, Mr P changed his mind and instead 
wanted to hold the transfer value in cash rather than invest on the basis previously 
agreed.
I havent seen any evidence that Informed Pensions told Mr P or misled him to 
believe that hed have full control of the Parmenion SIPP including the ability to                    
self-select investment funds without the input or involvement of Informed Pensions. I 
think its worth noting here that Parmenion doesnt usually deal directly with clients. 
Rather, its relationship is usually with financial advisers representing an end client. 
Parmenions terms and conditions, which Mr P accepted, set out that in order to have 
a SIPP that the end client must be serviced by an FCA authorised business. So it 
wouldve been odd for Informed Pensions to recommend a Parmenion SIPP to Mr P 
if it had told him or led him to believe hed be able to fully manage it without its 
ongoing involvement or input knowing that he wouldnt be able to do this.
Mr P said that Informed Pensions failed to explicitly tell him that he wouldnt have full 
control of the Parmenion SIPP. But my view is that all the evidence indicates Mr P 
understood and accepted any changes to the SIPP would need to go through 
Informed Pensions.
Parmenion received the transfer value of £163,983 on 14 February 2020. This was 
invested in the agreed investment portfolio on 19 and 20 February 2020. By the time 
the fund switch to cash was carried out on 24 February 2020, the fund value had 
reduced to £159,631. The difference of £4,352 is the financial loss Mr P says hes 
suffered and for which he wants compensation. The reduction in fund value was the 
result of market movements during that period. It wasnt due to an error by Informed 
Pensions. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to find Informed Pensions 
responsible for the financial loss claimed by Mr P.
I agree with our investigators assessment that following Mr Ps instruction on the 
evening of 19 February 2020 that the fund switch to cash on 24 February 2020 
couldnt have happened any sooner. Im satisfied that Informed Pensions instructed 
Parmenion to carry out the fund switch as quickly as it couldve done, and that Mr P 
is therefore in the correct financial position.
Based on the above, I cannot agree with Mr Ps assertion that Informed Pensions 
and Parmenion colluded to cover up its errors that led to him suffering the financial 
loss of £4,352. This is because there were no errors to cover up. The financial loss 
claimed by Mr P was due to market movements following his decision to depart from 
the agreed investment strategy and instruct Informed Pensions to switch the value of 
the Parmenion SIPP to cash.Like our investigator, I think Informed Pensions couldve done a better job of keeping 
Mr P informed between 20 and 25 February 2020 regarding the fund switch. Had it 
done this its likely Mr P wouldnt have felt ignored our out of the loop during that 
period.
Mr P said that his objective was always to have full control of his SIPP and self-select 
the underlying investment funds. If thats the case, it seems he achieved that 
objective following the subsequent transfer to his other SIPP with a different provider 
on 2 March 2020. 
Putting things right
In line with our investigators recommendation, and if it hasnt already done so, Informed 
Pensions must pay £250 compensation to Mr P due to the poor level of service it provided, 
as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Lemonade LLP trading as Informed Pensions must redress              
Mr P as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman