DRN-4428818
Complaint
Mrs N has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly continued 
allowing her to use an overdraft even when it should have been removed after annual 
reviews were carried out.
Background
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ns complaint and he thought that NatWest hadnt 
acted unfairly in relation to Mrs Ns overdraft. So he didnt think that the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mrs N disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
My provisional decision of 30 October 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 30 October 2023 - setting out why I intended to partially 
uphold Mrs Ns complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that both NatWest and our investigator had focused on what 
happened when Mrs N was initially provided with her overdraft. I agreed that Mrs Ns 
overdraft did appear to have been affordable when it was initially provided  she appeared to 
have had sufficient funds to clear the balance within a reasonable period of time as she 
continually did so (at least in the early days). 
However, as Mrs N had pointed out, I thought that both NatWest and our investigator had 
missed the fact that Mrs N was also unhappy at NatWests failure to consider her overdraft 
usage as part of any reviews it carried out.
I then explained that NatWest was familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes 
of practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges. 
And having carefully considered everything provided, I was minded to conclude that 
NatWest acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees 
from September 2019 onwards. While Mrs N might not have got in touch to confirm this, 
nonetheless by this point, it was evident Mrs Ns overdraft had become demonstrably 
unsustainable for her. 
A cursory look at her statements leading up to this period showed that Mrs N had been 
hardcore borrowing for an extended period. And the transactions taking place on Mrs Ns 
account indicated that there was little prospect of her being able to repay what she owed 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further. I said this because it is clear that the only 
reason that shed seen credit balances was because she was borrowing from elsewhere. 
It was my view that by this point it was clear that Mrs N was in a cycle of payday and other 
high-cost lending, which shed been using to supplement the funds in her account and meet 
her day-to-day expenditure. So I thought that NatWest ought to have seen from Mrs Ns 
overdraft usage that she wasnt using her overdraft for short-term emergencies and instead 
that she was using it over a much longer and unsustainable term.
Id seen that NatWest was relying on having sent Mrs N a number of letters telling her that 
using an overdraft in the way that she was, was expensive and that she should get in contact 
if she was experiencing difficulty. As I understood it, it then sent further letters and 
communications from 2020 onwards as a result of the regulators repeat overdraft use rules. 
NatWest said that Mrs N should have reached out if she was struggling.
I thought about what NatWest had said. But I thought that the mere fact that it felt the need 
to send Mrs N so many letters within such a period meant that it recognised there was a 
problem with the way that Mrs N was using her overdraft. 
I thought that if I took NatWests argument to its logical conclusion, I saw it as being that it 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs N because it sent her letters as it had identified that 
her overdraft usage had become a problem. But because Mrs N didnt respond to the letters 
it was reasonable to continue allowing her to use her overdraft in the same way, 
notwithstanding that it had identified her use of her overdraft as being problematic. 
In my view, this ignored the fact that there comes a point where a lender cannot continue 
simply relying on a borrower not wanting to discuss the situation. After all there are many 
reasons why a consumer might not want to get into discussions about their finances even 
though theyre in a situation where theyre struggling, or they may even go further and say 
they can and will make payment when the reality is they cant. 
While Mrs N didnt contact NatWest, most likely because she didnt realise the impact failing 
to deal with the matter at hand was having and she was instead focusing on making ends 
meet, I didnt think it was reasonable for NatWest to conclude that her problematic overdraft 
usage would correct itself. 
In any event, I was satisfied that NatWest should have stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same terms and treated Mrs N with forbearance by September 2019, which well was 
ahead of when it started sending letters anyway. As NatWest didnt react to Mrs Ns account 
usage and have regard to her account activity, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards her. 
I thought that Mrs N ended up paying interest, fees and charges at a time when her overdraft 
was already unsustainable. So I was satisfied that Mrs N lost out because of what NatWest 
did wrong and I concluded by setting out my intention to issue a final decision directing it to 
put things right for her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs N confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything 
further to me to consider.
NatWest also confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank the parties for their responses and Im pleased to see that they agree with my 
findings and conclusions.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mrs Ns complaint in my provisional decision 
of 30 October 2023. As the parties have accepted these conclusions and havent provided 
anything further to consider, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im still upholding Mrs Ns complaint and I 
remain satisfied that NatWest needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Mrs N
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ns complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ns current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from September 2019 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mrs N to arrange a suitable repayment plan,     
Mrs N is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with NatWest to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mrs Ns credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
September 2019. NatWest can also reduce Mrs Ns overdraft limit by the amount 
of any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt 
leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs N along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ns credit file. 
NatWest can also reduce Mrs Ns overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 30 October 2023, Im 
upholding Mrs Ns complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman