DRN-1902694
 
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of A, a limited company. Briefly, he says that HSBC UK Bank 
Plcs systems did not allow him to open a bank account for A.
What happened
Mr W told us that he made several attempts to open an HSBC bank account for A:
He first tried to open an HSBC bank account for A in November 2018. At the time, A 
was paying monthly fees for an account with another UK bank, and Mr W was 
attracted by HSBCs offer of a period of free banking. HSBC sent him a text message 
in November 2018 asking him to call to provide further information, and he 
responded swiftly to that message. He expected As new HSBC account to be 
opened within six weeks, but that did not happen.
He chased HSBC in February 2019, only to be told As application had been 
removed due to inactivity. Unfortunately he was ill at the beginning of 2019, so he 
could not chase HSBC earlier.
He made another attempt to open As HSBC bank account in March 2019, but again 
his attempt did not succeed. This time he had difficulty with HSBCs online 
application, which would not allow him to progress to the tax declaration section.
After complaining to HSBC  and receiving a promise that HSBC would help him 
through the account opening process and refund £21 of the fees A had paid to the 
other bank  he made another attempt in May 2019. HSBC told him he had 
outstanding actions in the matter, which he was unable to complete.
The above is not a complete list of Mr Ws contacts with HSBC, but it does give a flavour of 
the efforts he made to open an HSBC bank account for A. Ultimately, those efforts were not 
successful. A still does not have an HSBC bank account, and Mr W has given up trying to 
open one.
HSBC told us that it was satisfied it had not done anything wrong. From its perspective, the 
reason As account was not opened was that Mr W did not at any point complete its account 
opening process. 
When we asked HSBC to share any logs it had of technical difficulties it experienced during 
Mr Ws attempts to open an account for A, it said it could it could not do so. It explained that 
its applications only remain available for a limited time, and it does not hold any audits of 
any technical issues at the time [the] customer has expressed dissatisfaction. However, it 
did repeat its offer to refund £21 of the fees A had paid to the other bank.
 One of our investigators said that whilst he thought HSBC could perhaps have done more to 
help Mr W in April 2019, ultimately it was for HSBC to decide whether to open a bank 
account for any individual customer. Our investigator thought that HSBC had not received all 
the information it needed about the nature of As business, and so it was reasonable for 
HSBC not to open an account for A.Mr W did not accept our investigators opinion. He felt that HSBC had all the information it 
should have needed at the time of As original application in November 2018. He also said 
that when HSBCs staff tried to guide him through its systems, the same issues he had been 
mentioning from the beginning happened again. He considers that HSBC ignored the 
problem, ignored him, and failed to act in the way a professional bank should. 
Mr W also said he would not have pursued the matter if HSBC had owned up to being at 
fault. However, it has not acknowledged the fault with its software, and he wants to help 
ensure that HSBC does not treat other people in the way it has treated him. Whilst he is 
pleased HSBC has offered to refund some fees, he also wants compensation for the length 
of time the matter had taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not going to order 
HSBC to pay any more than the £21 it has already offered. I will explain why below.
I have not been able to determine the underlying reason why Mr Ws application for a bank 
account for A did not proceed. I think it is obvious that Mr W did not complete the whole of 
HSBCs process. But it is not obvious why he did not do so.
HSBC says it is not aware of any problems with its systems that would have prevented Mr W 
from completing As application. I accept HSBCs evidence on that point. But the fact HSBC 
was not aware of problems does not necessarily imply that all of its systems were working 
perfectly.
Mr W has provided considerable detail about his attempts to open a bank account for W. 
Again, I accept his evidence. He has clearly spent considerable time trying to progress 
matters, and this has been a very frustrating experience for him. But the fact Mr W has 
experienced frustration does not necessarily imply that there was any kind of fault with 
HSBCs process or software. 
I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly that HSBC had enough information about A in 
November 2018 to be able to open an account. HSBCs view was that it did not. Banks are 
required to obtain information about potential customers before agreeing to allow them to 
open an account, and I dont see anything unreasonable in HSBCs stance here.
Mr Ws later difficulties in opening the account appear to be primarily computer issues. Such 
issues can have many causes, from an organisation-wide failure on the banks side through 
to connectivity issues on the customers side. I am sorry to further disappoint Mr W, but there 
simply isnt enough evidence here for me to be satisfied that HSBC has made any mistakes.
Overall, I consider that HSBCs offer to refund £21 of fees does represent a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay A the £21 it has already offered. I 
do not make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Laura ColmanOmbudsman