DRN-1362752
 
The complaint
Mr L says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was added to 
Mr L's credit card account when he phoned Nationwide to activate the card.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicator's view, so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
I've decided that the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why:
I've seen a copy of Mr L's signed credit card application. It includes a box in which to 
state whether the applicant wishes to take out PPI. "No" is printed in the box. So I 
think it's clear that Mr L didn't opt to take PPI at the outset, when he applied for the 
card. But I'm satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr L from the way the form 
was set out that PPI was optional.
 
PPI was added to the card shortly after the account was set up, when Mr L phoned 
Nationwide to activate the card. Nationwide hasn't been able to provide a recording 
of the phone call. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that it took 
place many years ago. But Ive seen a copy of the call script in use at the time. It 
instructed the agent to gain the cardholders explicit consent before adding PPI to the 
account. Ive no particular reason to think that the script wouldn't have been followed 
in Mr Ls case. And I think its most likely that PPI was added to Mr Ls account 
because he agreed to take it.
 
Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI would have been shown on Mr 
Ls monthly credit card statements. And given that Im satisfied that he would have 
known that the PPI was optional, Id have expected him to query this with Nationwide if he hadn't agreed to the cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest that he did 
so.
 
Taking everything into account, I'm satisfied that Nationwide made Mr L aware that 
the PPI was optional. And I think he decided to take it, knowing that he had a choice - 
although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so long after the 
event.
 
Mr L has told us that Nationwide recommended the policy to him. But based on what 
we know of the way Nationwide sold these policies at the time, I think it's unlikely that 
it provided advice to Mr L about the PPI. This means it didn't have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was for Mr L to decide whether he wanted the cover, knowing what 
alternative means hed have had of making his monthly credit card repayments if he 
was off sick, or if he lost his job.
 
Mr L's told us he'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, followed by six months' 
half pay from his employer if he'd been off sick. But the PPI would have helped Mr L 
with his monthly credit card repayments for up to a year per successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. That's longer than Mr L would have been 
entitled to full pay from his employer for. What's more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr L received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
I acknowledge that Mr L's told us that he had already had a critical illness policy 
when he took out the PPI. But that's a different type of insurance, and it wouldn't 
have provided the same cover as PPI. So I don't think it meant the PPI was 
unsuitable for Mr L. And I think he could have found the protection it provided useful.
 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr L about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But I've concluded that Mr L chose to take out the policy. So he 
appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that 
now, so many years later. Based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the 
time, he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions or limitations (for example, 
provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since Mr L was 
paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost.
 
So taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mr L would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
I've taken into account all Mr L's comments, including what he's said about Nationwide not 
having told him about alternative policies. But I'm satisfied that Mr L chose to take out the 
PPI, knowing that it was optional, and Nationwide wasn't obliged to tell him about other 
products that might have been available.So based on what I've said above, I don't think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means 
Nationwide doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But Nationwide will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Nationwide didn't tell 
Mr L, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
If it has not already made the payment:
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr L any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
 
Nationwide should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr L the 
difference between what Mr L owes and what he would have owed if the commission 
and profit share it got hadn't been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nationwide should 
also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman