DRN-3125885
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt provide him with the 
service it should have when he requested a new PIN.
What happened
Mr W requested a new PIN for his debit card. He requested this to be sent in an audio format 
as he is dyslexic. However, the PIN was instead sent in braille and Mr W says he had to 
incur costs and spend time visiting a third party to get assistance.
NatWest accepted that it made a mistake by sending out the PIN in braille. It has confirmed 
it has changed Mr Ws accessibility details, so future correspondence will be sent via audio 
disk. To apologise for their error, NatWest offered Mr W £10 compensation to cover his fuel 
costs. 
Mr W didnt accept NatWests offer and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that there was no dispute that NatWest had made a mistake. He 
considered the impact this had on Mr W and whether the compensation offered was 
reasonable. He noted that Mr W was still able to use his card online but that his overall use 
was limited due to needing the PIN. He considered the inconvenience Mr W had been 
caused by not receiving the PIN in a format he could use and based on this thought that 
NatWest should pay Mr W a further £50 compensation (additional to the £10 offered).
Mr W thought a higher amount of compensation was needed and he wanted his decision 
published. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has been accepted that a mistake was made when NatWest sent Mr W his PIN in braille 
rather in the audio format he requested. When a mistake is made, we would expect the 
customer to be put back in the position they would have been had the mistake not been 
made and, where appropriate, compensation to be paid.
In this case, Mr W visited a third party so his PIN could be provided to him. NatWest has 
confirmed that it has updated its systems so that it has the relevant information recorded for 
Mr W and that he will receive cards and correspondence in an audio format going forward. 
Therefore, the issue has been resolved and shouldnt re-occur.
However, while action has been taken to correct the issue, sending the PIN in braille caused 
Mr W distress and inconvenience. Therefore, in this case I think compensation is needed.
NatWest offered in its final response letter to pay Mr W £10 to cover the fuel costs he 
incurred travelling to a third party to have the PIN provided to him. While this puts Mr W back 
in the position he would have been had he not needed to do this, it doesnt compensate him 
for the upset and inconvenience he was caused.
While Mr W may have had some use of his card for transactions that didnt require his PIN, 
he clearly didnt have full use of the card until he was able to access the PIN. This delay 
wouldnt have happened had the PIN been sent in audio format as requested. Mr W also had 
to spend time contacting and visiting a third party to access the PIN. That said, when the 
issue was raised with NatWest it took the actions we would expect by updating his profile to 
prevent Mr W experiencing issues in the future. Therefore, in this case, I think the additional 
£50 compensation recommended by our investigator is reasonable. 
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr W £50 (additional to the £10 offered to cover 
fuel costs) for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by not receiving his PIN in the 
form he had requested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, National Westminster Bank Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman