DRN-1902907
The complaint
Mr P has an interest only mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. It has come to the end of 
the term. Mr P has dementia and is represented by his son, who Ill call Mr P1. Mr P1 doesnt 
think Mr P has been treated fairly now that Barclays have asked for the mortgage to be 
repaid.
What happened
Mr P took out his mortgage many years ago. Sadly, in recent years he has become 
increasingly unwell with dementia and his son, Mr P1, now manages his affairs under a 
power of attorney.
When the mortgage term ended in 2018, Mr P was in his mid to late seventies. Mr P1 spoke 
to Barclays to try to come to an arrangement for the mortgage to be extended. Barclays 
wasnt willing to agree to a term extension. It referred Mr P to advice about equity release 
and debt management  but said that, ultimately, if the mortgage couldnt be repaid the 
property would have to be sold. It also sent field agents to visit the property.
Mr P1 complained. He said Barclays knew his father was vulnerable and had dementia and 
he was managing Mr Ps affairs. But Barclays still wrote to his father directly and sent field 
agents to visit him. He said Barclays hadnt responded to his proposals, even though hed 
been trying to sort things out from well before the term ended. 
Mr P1 said that sale of the property was his fathers intended repayment strategy when the 
mortgage was taken out. But circumstances had changed since. He said sale of the property 
wasnt appropriate because of the impact that would have on Mr P, who was still living there. 
Moving him now would adversely impact his condition. But the loan to value is low, meaning 
theres no risk Barclays wont be repaid once he passes away or is no longer able to live in 
the property. And Mr P1 said it wasnt fair the mortgage was now on the standard variable 
rate (SVR), and Barclays wouldnt allow a reduced interest rate.
After our investigator got involved, Barclays agreed that it wouldnt seek to repossess the 
property or call in the mortgage. It would allow Mr P to continue living in the property as long 
as he needed to and wouldnt expect the mortgage to be repaid until either Mr P passed 
away, or moved out  for example, into long term care. It said it would expect him to pay an 
affordable amount to the mortgage each month in the meantime. It would want an update on 
affordability and Mr Ps medical condition every six months, but subject to that would allow 
the mortgage to continue. Our investigator thought this was a fair offer.
Mr P1 said that it wasnt fair that Mr P would remain on the banks SVR from now on. He 
said he should be allowed access to a preferential mortgage rate, and this made Mr P a 
mortgage prisoner. He wanted an ombudsman to decide whether Barclays should also be 
required to offer his father a new, lower, interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ps condition, which Im sure is worrying for the whole family. I can 
understand why Mr Ps medical advisers and his family think it best for the long term 
management of his condition that he remain in the property thats familiar to him, and 
associated with happy memories, for as long as hes able. Im pleased that Barclays has 
now agreed a way forward for that to happen. Its an acceptable way forward for all parties  
apart from the issue of the interest rate, which is what I now have to decide.
Mr P1 offered to increase the amount Mr P pays to £1,060 each month. On the SVR, and 
following the recent interest rate cut, that means around £450 goes towards the mortgage 
interest, and the rest is used to pay the capital. So Mr Ps balance goes down each month.
If the interest rate were lower, more of what Mr P pays could be used to reduce the capital  
which would be in Mr Ps best interests.
But this mortgage has come to an end. The capital is overdue for payment  and it was (as 
Mr P1 accepts) always Mr Ps plan that the property would be sold at the end of the term. 
There are good reasons why this shouldnt happen right now  but it will need to happen in 
due course. It cant be predicted how long Mr P will continue to need to live in the property. 
So a fixed term extension might cause difficulties  either to Mr P, because its not long 
enough, or to Barclays because its too long.
A mortgage without a fixed end date  a lifetime mortgage, or a retirement interest only 
mortgage  are specific products, with their own regulatory requirements which Barclays 
doesnt offer. Mr P1 has explored these, but hasnt been able to arrange a retirement interest 
only mortgage with a power of attorney and doesnt think a lifetime mortgage is appropriate 
for Mr P.
In the circumstances of this case, I think informal forbearance, rather than a fixed end date, 
is the right way forward. It enables Mr P to remain the property as long as he needs, and 
gives both him and his family, and Barclays, flexibility to bring it to an end in an orderly way 
when the time is right.
Because theres no formal fixed term extension, the mortgage will remain out of term  and 
therefore not eligible for a new interest rate. I also bear in mind the purpose of offering new 
rates to customers, which is to retain their business during the mortgage term and persuade 
them not to move elsewhere. Thats not a consideration here. Barclays rates are for a fixed 
term. They come with either a product fee (often £999) or an early repayment charge, or 
both. Tying Mr P in  with an entry cost, exit cost, or both  wouldnt give the flexibility I think 
this situation needs. 
I understand why Mr P1 would prefer the rate to be lower. But its clearly affordable for Mr P 
 Mr P1 has arranged for him to overpay each month. And while that remains the case, 
subject to review every six months, I dont think its unfair that Barclays maintains the 
mortgage on the SVR.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should, subject to a six monthly review of his 
medical needs and affordability, accept £1,060 per month in payment and defer collection of 
the outstanding mortgage balance until such time as Mr P has passed away or has 
permanently moved out of the property, whichever comes first.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman