DRN-2413134
The complaint
Miss L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent her misleading 
correspondence as her existing mortgage product was coming to an end. Miss L wants 
Halifax to refund the extra interest Miss L paid on Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR). 
What happened
Miss L had a mortgage with Halifax. She also had a fixed rate mortgage product, the term of 
which was coming to and on 31 March 2020. Miss L got a letter just before this happened 
telling her that the interest rate on her mortgage was going down by 0.5% and her monthly 
payments would be £376.17. But the payments were in fact going up from £291.09 to 
£376.17. Mrs L complained to Halifax and understood that the complaint was being upheld 
but it wasnt. 
Halifax said that it did send a letter out to Miss L on 1 March reminding her that the rate was 
changing to the SVR - which Miss L doesnt appear to have received - and then a second 
letter in March telling her that the SVR rate was going down which Miss L did get. Halifax 
says that under the terms of the mortgage product offer of January 2018 that Miss L should 
have been aware when her mortgage product came to an end and made the appropriate 
arrangements. But it did accept that Mrs L would have been disappointed when Halifax had 
indicated that her complaint was being upheld when it hadnt. So, it offered Miss L 
compensation of £100.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as his view was that 
Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably. Miss L disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L complains that due to Halifaxs poor communications that she had no time to get a 
new mortgage product before her old mortgage product ended at the end of March 2020. It 
seems that Miss L in fact never took out a further mortgage product with Halifax but 
redeemed her mortgage later in the year. As I understand it Halifax says it sent Miss L a 
reminder of the mortgage product ending on the 1 March 2020 which Miss M never received. 
As Miss Ls mortgage was then moving onto the SVR Halifax sent another letter later in the 
month to say that the SVR was deceasing.  That clearly would have been relevant to Miss L.
Halifax has evidence on its system that it sent such a letter along with a batch of others on 1 
March to customers whose mortgage products ended on 31 March. That would have 
informed customers that their interest rate would move to the SVR on that date. If Miss L had 
received that letter the further letter telling her that the SVR was decreasing and which was 
the source of Miss Ls annoyance would have made sense.
The difficulty facing Miss L in this complaint is that she already knew when her interest rate 
was going to change and  move to the SVR.  Halifax tell Miss L in 2018 that the interest rate 
will change on 31 March 2020. Miss L says that was insufficient as she has other contracts 
where she gets reminders well in advance and can react accordingly. I note that the point is 
also made that we all have busy lives and look to reminders to assist us. But mortgages are 
among the biggest items of personal expenditure. Taking out a fixed rate product may mean 
a substantial saving from the SVR and its reasonable to expect a consumer to keep a record 
of when the mortgage product ends so that they can decide whether to take out a new 
mortgage product or not. I appreciate that a reminder would be helpful, and Halifax seems to 
have sent one out although not received by Miss L.   
I cant fairly find against Halifax if it already told Miss L when the mortgage product was 
going to end. Although Ive seen no commitment by Halifax to remind Miss L in advance of 
the end date, it seems to have tried to do so by mail. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I 
note that Miss L was led to believe that her complaint would be successful when it was not, 
and I agree that the £100 paid by Halifax represents fair compensation for Miss Ls upset. 
My final decision
My decision is hat I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman