DRN-1666936
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that he was unable to transfer part of his Cash ISA with Family Equity Plan 
Limited (Family) to another provider to get a better interest rate. 
What happened
Mr H opened a Post Office Money online ISA in January 2018 to transfer existing ISAs into 
it. The underlying provider is Family. He transferred £40,000 to a 2 year fixed rate product. A 
few days later he transferred £44,401.62 to a 1 year fixed rate product. 
As the maturity of the 1 year product approached, Family contacted Mr H about his options 
with details of current products. Mr H found a better rate elsewhere, opened an account and 
requested the transfer of the matured fixed rate product.
Family replied saying it couldnt arrange a partial transfer. Mr H could transfer the whole 
plan, inclusive of the ongoing 2 year fixed rate product but this would incur a break charge of 
£315.61.
Mr H decided against this and took a further 1 year fixed rate with Family but made a 
complaint as he could have been earning more interest elsewhere.
Family said partial transfers were not a feature of its ISA. There was one account which 
could have multiple underlying products, like fixed rates over different time periods. It said 
this was clear in the terms and conditions and other information which Mr H had confirmed 
he had read as part of the account opening process. The maturity information hed been sent 
confirmed the same. 
Mr H didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. He thought the key information pack and terms and conditions were clear that 
partial transfers werent possible. Mr H said they were ambiguous and not strongly worded 
enough. He said other ISA providers didnt have restrictions in place so it wasnt normal 
practice. As Mr H disagrees with our investigators view it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
Family and the Post Office didnt provide Mr H with any financial advice. He arranged the 
ISAs himself and shopped around for good rates, moving his money accordingly. 
Familys online account opening process provides key information including the terms and 
conditions at the start. It repeats important points in summary box immediately before the 
apply button can be clicked.  By applying for the account Mr H accepted the terms and 
conditions set out. 
On page 2 of the key information pack it states:You will only have one Online ISA with us, but can open multiple products in your 
account
Transfers are covered on page 7 under their own section Can I transfer my online ISA, 
which states:
Yes. You can transfer your online ISA in full to another ISA. Partial transfers are not 
permitted, and you will not be able to transfer out individual products in your 
account.
The summary box before the apply button has the following section:
Transfers
Partial transfers are not permitted and you will not be able to transfer individual 
products held in your Online ISA. You can however transfer your Online ISA in full to 
another ISA at any time. If you transfer your Online ISA and you have money in a fixed 
rate product which is in its fixed term a Breakage Charge will be applied to that 
product.
Mr H agrees he read the key information and the summary box was unavoidable before 
clicking to apply for the account. As such I think he was made reasonably aware of the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Mr H says there could be different interpretation of the wordings. I dont agree as I think 
these wording are clear. And I think its reasonable that someone used to transferring their 
ISAs to benefit from better rates would check to see what transfer conditions applied on any 
new account and raise queries if necessary.
Mr H says the transfer conditions are unusual compared to other providers. Providers offer 
products with differing terms and features. Familys maybe different from some others but it 
doesnt necessarily make them unreasonable. Here I consider that the relevant term was 
fairly disclosed. So I dont think Family have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint against Family Equity Plan Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman