DRN-1967666
The complaint
Mr H complains excessive charges on his Scottish Equitable Plc personal pension mean he 
cannot transfer it to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
In early 1997 Mr H started a section 32 buyout plan with Scottish Equitable when the 
trustees of his employers final salary scheme wound it up. The initial contribution was 
around £63,900 which included around £3,600 of protected rights. It came with a 
Guaranteed Minimum Penson (GMP) based on what Mr H would have received had he not 
contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). It was invested in 
the High Equity with profit fund. Mr Hs normal retirement age of 65 will be in 2027. 
In late 2018 Mr H wished to transfer this policy to his existing SIPP and requested a transfer 
value. In January 2019 Scottish Equitable explained the transfer wasnt possible as the 
transfer value of his fund (about £224,00) wasnt sufficient to meet the GMP. Mr H didnt 
understand this as his fund value was many multiples of the GMP and he was still nine years 
away from retirement in which time the fund could grow. He suspected the fund value was 
being eroded by the charges which he felt were excessive, and higher than hed been led to 
expect. 
The market had improved by April 2019, so Mr H tried to arrange the transfer again, but the 
cost of meeting the GMP had increased to £243,000 which Mr H thought was 
preposterous. He believed Scottish Equitable was refusing to permit him to transfer to keep 
taking the fees. So he complained, requesting a refund of fees charged since December 
2018 and for the transfer to go ahead. 
Scottish Equitable explained legislation didnt permit the transfer of a section 32 plan if the 
transfer value wouldnt be sufficient to meet the cost of the GMP. So Mr H complained to this 
service saying he felt trapped into remaining with Scottish Equitable which was charging him 
in excess of the original agreement.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained that 
Scottish Equitable couldnt allow the transfer if it meant the transfer value wasnt sufficient to 
meet the GMP. Scottish Equitable didnt perform its own calculations as it no longer provides 
annuities, so these were obtained from another provider in line with S97 of the Pension 
Schemes Act 1993 which he had no reason to question. With regard to the charges, he 
explained Scottish Equitable had said this wasnt part of the complaint Mr H originally raised. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigator saying he had complained that his original agreement 
limited the charges to 1% so the charges were excessive and unagreed. He felt it was 
unfair thered been no visibility of charges prior to 2018. 
So he asked an ombudsman to review the case and issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why.
transfer value
Mr Hs section 32 plan comes with a GMP from benefits accrued from his final salary 
scheme - he cannot make further contributions. Regardless of actual investment 
performance, Scottish Equitable is obliged to provide at least the GMP at retirement, plus 
other benefits such as a 50% spouses pension. 
Mr Hs plan was established in 1997 when investment returns were far more optimistic than 
has proved to be the case. Point 5 of the Important notes section says Your pension 
income will depend on how your investments grow and interest rates at the time you retire. 
The illustrations provided at the time were based on rates of return between six and twelve 
percent. 
Because Mr H had contracted out of SERPS at some point, he has a reserved units 
element to his pension, and this provides for his GMP. If this element of his fund doesnt 
perform sufficiently to meet the GMP then the plan terms enable Scottish Equitable use non-
reserved units to make up the shortfall. And if thats not sufficient Scottish Equitable is 
responsible for ensuring Mr H receives at least the GMP at retirement. 
Mr H would have to take (and pay for) financial advice for any transfer to be approved, but if 
the actuaries dont confirm the transfer value is sufficient to meet the obligation of the GMP a 
transfer cannot go ahead. While Mr H may feel trapped into staying with Scottish Equitable, 
the arrangement protects him from giving up valuable benefits, such as a guaranteed 
income for life, plus a pension for his spouse thereafter. 
I understand why it might seem to Mr H that his fund value is many times the £6,600 GMP 
hes entitled to receive, even if he exceeds normal life expectancy. But that isnt how its 
calculated. Scottish Widows has explained that as it no longer provides annuities, such 
calculations are carried out by another provider. A complex actuarial calculation is done to 
determine the size of fund required to generate at least the least the GMP, based on current 
annuity rates which are far lower than they were in the 1990s when the plan was set up. The 
calculations show the transfer value is lower than the fund required to provide the GMP. 
So while I understand his disappointment, Scottish Equitable hasnt treated Mr H unfairly by 
refusing to enable him to transfer to his SIPP. 
charges
Mr H believes the original policy terms and conditions limit his charges to 1%. Page 159 of 
this document which Mr H provided to this service when he first complained says There is 
also an annual fund management charge. This will be Single Contribution 1.00% (my 
emphasis). This makes clear the AMC is in addition to another charge, and that charge is set 
out on the line above which reads:
Each year there will be a charge of 0.75% of the bid value of the fund derived from regular 
protected and non-protected rights contributions This charge will be deducted 
throughout the term of your plan. So Im satisfied Mr H was informed of both charges from 
the outset. 
Mr Hs plan was single contribution which means he cant add to it over the years, so there 
was no requirement to send annual statements. Hes been provided with more information in 
recent years in line with regulatory requirements, so information about charges and performance is now more transparent. But from what Ive seen, Scottish Equitable is correct 
to say the charges have been in line with Mr Hs original plan and havent been increased. 
Nor is the 0.7% charge just applicable to purchases and sales of units as Mr H believed. 
Mr H may be right that the initial set up fee was borne by his employer to wind up the 
scheme, and that this one-off fee may appear proportionately less expensive than the 
individual annual charges for each plan. But these are set out in the plan document, and Ive 
not seen anything which makes me think Mr H isnt being charged in line with this. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman