DRN-2028166
The complaint
Ms B complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt paid her under its Refer a Friend incentive, even 
though she opened an account with the bank following a referral from her partner.   
What happened
In February 2020 Ms B opened a current account online with TSB. At the time, TSB was 
running a Refer a Friend scheme. That scheme allowed existing TSB customers to refer up 
to five friends a year. If both the existing customer and the new customer met the necessary 
criteria, both would receive a payment of £100. 
Ms B didnt receive any payment from TSB. When she queried the position, TSB said that 
she hadnt met the criteria. Specifically, she hadnt completed a full switch of her existing 
current account from her then account provider. Ms B didnt think this was fair. That 
condition was, she said, hidden in the small print. 
She referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator thought however that the terms were clear and so didnt recommend that TSB 
pay the £100 incentive. Ms B didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Although Ms B opened a current account with TSB, she didnt 
complete a full switch of her current account from her then provider. She doesnt dispute 
that, but says that the requirement to do so wasnt made clear. I have however considered 
the terms and conditions of the banks offer. They included the condition, at clause 2.5:  
Complete a full switch of your existing current account with another provider to TSB using 
the Current Account Switch Service within 28 days of opening your account. You can choose 
to switch your account to us when you apply for a Classic or Classic Plus account or after 
youve opened it.
The terms and conditions covered just over one page, including information about how to 
contact the bank and formal notices. They were plainly written, and none of the requirements 
that Ms B had to meet was given any more or less prominence than any other. Clause 2.6 
for example required Ms B to have a minimum of two direct debits on the account and to pay 
at least £500 a month into it. She complied with those requirements. 
I dont accept therefore that the requirement to make a full switch using the current account 
switching service was in any way concealed or hidden in the small print. In the 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair to require TSB to pay Ms B the £100 incentive.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank plc to do 
anything further to resolve Ms Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman