DRN-3208106
The complaint
Miss B has complained about the transfer of six personal pensions from Reliance Mutual to 
another pension scheme in 2013. Reliance Mutual has since been renamed Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited. For ease, I will be referring to Utmost Ltd in my decision.
Miss B says Utmost Ltd failed in its responsibilities in allowing the transfers because she 
ended up being the victim of a pension liberation scheme. Pension liberation typically 
involves individuals attempting to access their pensions before the age of 55. This can lead 
to a severe tax charge and is sometimes linked with fraudulent activity and high-risk 
investments. Entire pensions can be lost as a result. Although Miss Bs motivation for 
transferring doesnt appear to have been to access her pension before 55, she has ended up 
in the position of having to pay a tax charge on what she thought would be a tax-free lump 
sum and recovery of any further assets from her pension is uncertain.
Miss B says she wouldnt have transferred, and therefore wouldnt have incurred a tax 
charge and lost a significant proportion of her pension savings, if Utmost Ltd had acted as it 
should have done when she requested the transfer of her policies.
What happened
In April 2013, an unregulated firm asked Miss B whether she would like her pension 
arrangements reviewed. The offer came through a cold call telephone call. She agreed to 
the review. A meeting took place at Miss Bs home during which she was told about an 
organisation called Fast Pensions and about transferring her pension to a new scheme. She 
was told doing so would help her achieve a better return on her pension and enable her to 
access 25% of her pension tax free. She agreed to transfer her six personal pensions from 
Utmost Ltd and signed a letter of authority (dated 28 April) allowing the unregulated firm to 
request details from Utmost Ltd about her pension policies. This was sent, by fax, to 
Utmost Ltd on 1 May.
On 17 May Utmost Ltd wrote to the unregulated firm with information on Miss Bs policies. It 
looks like it also wrote to Miss B on the same day with information on her policies and the 
paperwork she needed to complete in order to transfer (the letters provided by Utmost Ltd 
dont say who the letters were addressed to but they appear to have been written to Miss B). 
On 29 May Miss B signed six Utmost Ltd Transfer Payment Request forms (relating to her 
six personal pensions) to authorise the transfers. The forms included the name of the 
receiving scheme (the Talisman Retirement Plan), its Pension Scheme Tax Reference 
(PSTR) and details of the bank account the transfer proceeds were to be paid into. 
AC Management & Administration Ltd (ACM)  the schemes administrators  signed the 
forms to confirm the accuracy of the information given about the receiving scheme. ACM 
returned the forms to Utmost Ltd on 6 June. Its covering letter also included details of the 
bank account the transfer values were to be paid into, the receiving schemes PSTR and 
confirmation that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC.
The forms were received by Utmost Ltd on 7 June. On 12 June, Utmost Ltd wrote to ACM to 
say it had made payment in relation to one of Miss Bs transferred policies. On 19 June, 
Utmost Ltd wrote a similar letter to say payment in relation to Miss Bs remaining five policies 
had been made. In total, Miss B transferred just over £37,000 from Utmost Ltd to the 
Talisman Retirement Plan.
Miss B was 53 when she started the process of transferring and had just turned 54 when it 
was completed.
Miss B says she started to have doubts shortly after transferring when she was given 
information by a different organisation about the dangers of pension liberation and dealing 
with unregulated organisations. She was given this information in relation to another pension 
she was considering transferring. She ultimately didnt transfer that pension. Approximately a 
year later, after turning 55, Miss B says she was sent £10,000 in relation to her tax-free cash 
but the payment had a reference of Umbrella Loan. This caused her to have further doubts 
about her transfers from Utmost Ltd. She says she subsequently had to pay a £4,000 tax bill 
because her £10,000 payment had been classed as a loan rather than as a legitimate 
withdrawal of her tax-free cash. She tried to transfer away but was unable to do so because 
Fast Pensions stopped communicating with her.
In 2018, the High Court wound up Fast Pensions Ltd (and five other related firms) in the 
public interest. This followed an investigation by the Insolvency Service which found that:
At least £21 million had been invested into 15 schemes (including the Talisman 
Retirement Plan).
The people affected were often persuaded to transfer following cold calls and because 
they were attracted to the loans they were told they could get if they transferred.
If advice was given, it was inadequate.
There was a lack of disclosure on the high risk, illiquid, nature of the schemes 
investments.
Transferred funds were misused. At least £4 million was used to pay commissions, with 
the remaining funds largely used to make loans to companies and other entities which 
appear to have been connected with Fast Pensions and FPST (the trustees of the 15 
pension schemes).
The 15 pension schemes identified  including the Talisman Retirement Plan  had an 
independent trustee appointed in 2018 by The Pensions Regulator (TPR).
In January 2019, Miss B complained to Utmost Ltd about its actions in relation to her 
transfer. Utmost Ltd didnt think it had done anything wrong. Miss B, who is represented by a 
firm of solicitors, referred her complaint to us. She said, in summary, that the transfers were 
little more than a pension liberation scam and that Utmost Ltd should have conducted more 
thorough due diligence before allowing them to proceed. She says if Utmost Ltd had done 
so, it would have discovered a number of warning signs, including the fact that she had been 
cold called and had been dealing with an organisation that wasnt regulated. 
By way of conclusion, Miss B said Utmost Ltd should have:
conducted adequate checks on the new pension;
established why she wanted to transfer;sent the leaflet from TPRs scorpion campaign (so called because of the scorpion 
imagery used in its materials) which highlighted the dangers of pension liberation;
responded to any concerns that the above would have raised; 
recommended she take independent advice.
Utmost Ltd didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it had conducted the checks 
required of it at the time which included checking that: the proposed transfer was to a UK 
registered pension scheme; no suspicious telephone calls had been received in relation to 
Miss B in the previous three months; Miss Bs address hadnt been changed in the previous 
six months; Miss Bs signature agreed with the signature held on file and the name and 
address of the new provider and scheme had been identified.
Utmost Ltd also said there were no indications from any parties, including any authorities, 
that there were any concerns about the Talisman Retirement Plan or its administrators at 
that time.
In relation to Miss Bs dealings with an unregulated entity, Utmost Ltd pointed to the letter of 
authority Miss B signed on 28 April 2013 which gave permission to Utmost Ltd to provide 
information on her policies to third parties. Four organisations were named on that form, 
including a firm that was a regulated adviser and another that was an appointed 
representative of that advisory firm. Given this, Utmost Ltd said it had assumed Miss B had 
been given regulated advice about the transfer. And it said it also provided the Money 
Advice Services Your pension: its time to choose booklet with its transfer papers. It says 
this may have made Miss B aware that she was dealing with an unregulated firm.
On the issue of TPRs scorpion guidance, Utmost Ltd confirmed that it hadnt sent any 
leaflets to Miss B. But it said doing so wasnt a mandatory requirement. It also said it was in 
the process of reviewing its procedures in response to the scorpion guidance and that it was 
reasonable for it to have not finished that process given the guidance was issued on 
14 February and it had only sent information to Miss B about transferring on 17 May. It 
pointed to a decision by the Pensions Ombudsman (a different organisation to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service) to support its position on this.
Miss B referred the matter to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
Utmost Ltd had conducted the checks required of it at the time and that there wasnt any 
other information available to it that should have prompted further investigations on its part. 
She thought it was reasonable for Utmost Ltd to have not followed the scorpion guidance 
because it was still updating its processes and it was reasonable to allow some time for this. 
And she said sending the scorpion insert wasnt compulsory anyway.
Miss B disagreed. She said that because the transfer was after the scorpion guidance, 
Utmost Ltd should have at least made one telephone call, which wouldnt have been 
arduous. This would have resulted in some of the problems with the transfers being 
identified and the transfers not proceeding as a result. The matter was therefore referred to 
me.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Utmost Ltd had fallen short of what was 
expected of personal pension providers at that time. I thought if it had acted as it should 
have done, Miss B wouldnt have transferred. I thought Utmost Ltd should therefore 
compensate Miss B for losses she otherwise wouldnt have suffered. I said:
TPRs scorpion guidanceThe scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013. Several bodies including the FSA 
(the Financial Services Authority which had been succeeded by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, the FCA, by the time of Miss Bs transfer) were part of this initiative so its a 
relevant consideration for personal pension providers like Utmost Ltd which come under 
FSA/FCA regulation, rather than TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs 
present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being 
transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and 
pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or 
were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests.
If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist schemes could use 
which suggested asking the member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters 
about the scheme and for further details about how they became aware of the receiving 
scheme and how it had been described to them. If those enquiries established the member 
had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered 
with the FCA. Where transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider 
delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer leaflet which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about pension 
liberation amongst pension scheme members.
Utmost Ltd says it shouldnt be bound by the above guidance because it was reviewing its 
processes when Miss B transferred and because issuing the scorpion insert wasnt 
mandatory.
In relation to the first argument, Utmost Ltd says at the time it provided transfer information 
to Miss B, on 17 May 2013, it was reviewing its procedures in response to the scorpion 
guidance. I assume this means it did, ultimately, adopt the guidance. If so, I agree taking 
some time to do this is reasonable. But Utmost Ltd was still reviewing its processes over 
three months after the guidance was introduced. I consider this to be too long. Utmost Ltd 
was, after all, cognisant of the scorpion campaign and the seriousness of the issues it was 
trying to address. So allowing three months to have elapsed without there being any 
demonstrable change to its processes doesnt strike me as being reasonable. At the very 
least, I would have expected it to have been in a position to send out the scorpion insert with 
Miss Bs transfer papers. This would have been an effective stop-gap that wouldnt have 
required a significant amount of upheaval to implement.
Utmost Ltd points to a May 2015 decision by the Pensions Ombudsman to support its case. 
In particular, it points to the following paragraph from that decision:
It would be reasonable to expect some time would be required for procedures to be updated 
and new literature prepared to reflect the guidance. This would seem to have been the case 
with both Aviva and Countrywide Assured (because the latter enclosed the Scorpion leaflet 
in July 2013 but not in March 2013).Although Im not bound by the decisions of the Pensions Ombudsman, I dont think the 
paragraph supports Utmost Ltds position anyway. Whilst it does say some time to adapt is 
reasonable  a sentiment I agree with  it doesnt say exactly how long is reasonable other 
than a suggestion that the end of March wouldnt have been feasible.
It should also be noted that the thinking of the Pensions Ombudsman has since evolved. In a 
decision dated 11 March 2021 (nearly six years after the decision Utmost Ltd has referred us 
to), it says:
I am not bound by previous Determinations I have made, and each case is assessed on its 
individual facts. I have taken the opportunity to review the facts, further evaluate the evolving 
regulatory position and the cases I have previously Determined. Having done so, I consider 
that a period of approximately one month would generally be sufficient for a provider to put in 
place any procedures necessary as a result of the Regulators new guidance. This view is 
supported by previous Determinations I have issued, such as PO-6375, along with others. 
Should this timeframe not be met by any provider, I would expect it to consider temporarily 
suspending transfers while it makes the necessary arrangements or contacting The 
Regulator to request an extension on the stipulated transfer deadlines [PO-24554]
As I say, Im not bound by decisions made by the Pensions Ombudsman. But its position 
doesnt appear in conflict with my view in this case, which is that Im not persuaded it was 
reasonable for three months to have passed without Utmost Ltd making any changes in 
response to the scorpion guidance.
Finally on this point, Im not persuaded that 17 May is the correct reference point here. 
Utmost Ltd points to this date because this is when it sent out Miss Bs transfer papers. If it 
was acting in line with the scorpion guidance then this would be when it would have sent out 
the insert, so presumably this is why it chose this date. But this presupposes that the transfer 
was inevitable from that point onwards when clearly that wasnt the case. Utmost Ltd didnt 
receive Miss Bs signed transfer papers until 7 June. So it had a further three weeks (and 
nearly four months in total) in which it could have adapted its processes in line with the 
scorpion guidance. This isnt critical to my decision. As I explained above, three months was 
too long anyway. But I think its worth highlighting that there were nearly four months in 
which Utmost Ltd could have done something to align itself more closely with the scorpion 
guidance.
Of course, as Utmost Ltd argues, sending the scorpion insert wasnt mandatory. When 
launching the campaign, TPR said the following:
We would also like to see the use of the pension liberation fraud insert in transfer packs 
for members become best practice. [my emphasis]
But I need to decide what is fair and reasonable taking into account, where appropriate, what 
good industry practice was at the time (DISP 3.6.4R). And its clear to me that the scorpion 
campaign was intended to represent good industry practice. Sending the insert was an 
integral part of this. So even though it wasnt mandatory, Im satisfied sending the insert can 
be considered as being good industry practice and its appropriate for me to consider 
Utmost Ltds actions in that light.
What should Utmost Ltd have done and would it have made a difference?
For the reasons Ive given above, I think that Utmost Ltd should have sent the scorpion 
insert to Miss B before 7 June  and probably on 17 May alongside her transfer papers. I 
think its failure to do so caused detriment to Miss B.The scorpion insert was headed Predators stalk your pension. It went on to say that 
companies are singling out savers like you and claiming that they can help you cash in your 
pension early. It warned people to watch out for:
being approached out of the blue over the phone or via text message;
pushy advisers or introducers offering upfront cash incentives;
companies offering loans, savings advances or cash back from a pension;
a lack of information about the potential tax consequences of taking action.
It went on to say individuals should:
not give out financial or personal information to a cold caller;
find out about a companys background through information online and note that any 
financial advisers should be registered with the FCA;
ask for a statement showing how a pension will be paid at retirement, and question who 
will look after funds until then;
speak to an adviser that is not associated with the proposal in question in order to get an 
unbiased opinion;
never be rushed into agreeing to a pension transfer.
The focus of the insert was pension liberation. Miss Bs motivation for transferring was the 
higher returns that were promised to her and to access tax free cash from her pension from 
the age of 55 (which wasnt too far away for her at the time). On this latter point, Miss B 
didnt need to transfer to the Talisman Retirement Fund in order to achieve this but she was 
given the impression that this was the only way she could do it which she believed at the 
time.
So Miss Bs case isnt a typical pension liberation case in so far as she doesnt appear to 
have been trying to access her pension before regulations would have allowed. Even so, its 
apparent that there is a significant crossover with the messages in the insert and Miss Bs 
situation. She has spoken about an unsolicited approach, feeling rushed, being pushed into 
transferring and dealing with an unregulated entity. And, of course, she believed that 
transferring was the only way to access 25% of her pension tax-free, so I think some of the 
inserts messages about cashing in a pension early were relevant to her even though the 
insert wasnt targeting legitimate withdrawals. So, all things considered, I think its fair to say 
the inserts messages would have resonated with Miss B, especially given the wording and 
imagery that it used which was designed to be striking.
Miss Bs comments and actions are particularly telling on this issue. Around the same time 
as her transfers from Utmost Ltd, Miss B also requested a transfer from an occupational 
pension to the Talisman Retirement Plan. Her occupational scheme wrote to her on 11 July 
(so just over a month after the transfer of her first policy from Utmost Ltd) to say her adviser 
may not have been authorised by the FCA and that she may wish to contact the FCA about 
this. It also gave Miss B two other organisations that she could contact  TPR and 
The Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS). And it provided her with the scorpion insert, which 
Miss B forwarded on to us along with a copy of the covering letter referred to above. Miss B 
says this information made her decide against the transfer. In her own words:On 11th July, I received theletter regarding my [occupational] pension and noted the 
content that my pension providers were not FCA authorised along with the scorpion warning 
letter which immediately raised alarm bells as to the credibility of Fast Pensions. It was too 
late to stop the transfer, also I had never received from them any "cooling off period" 
notification, so my money had gone and from that day I had doubts about the transaction. 
I did not transfer my [occupational] pension. I never received similar warning letters from 
Reliance Mutual...If I had I would not have transferred my pensions.
I recognise Miss Bs occupational scheme provided a covering letter that said her adviser 
may not have been authorised. This wouldnt necessarily have happened if Utmost Ltd had 
just sent the scorpion insert. So there is an argument that it wasnt just the insert that 
changed Miss Bs mind  it was the wording of the covering letter too.
However, I dont think the wording of the covering letter adds anything substantive to what 
the scorpion insert says. The letter said Miss Bs adviser may not be authorised and that 
she may want to contact the FCA as a result. But the scorpion insert also encouraged 
someone transferring to check the background of the company theyre dealing with and also 
referenced checking with the FCA  and it did so amongst a number of other warnings and 
recommended steps. Therefore, whilst I cant be certain that the scorpion insert in isolation 
would have prompted Miss B to have reconsidered transferring, Im satisfied that the 
evidence shows it would likely have prompted that reaction.
I also note that Utmost Ltd included the Your Pension: Its time to choose leaflet from the 
Money Advice Service with the transfer papers it sent to Miss B. It said this leaflet, in 
conjunction with contacting the Pensions Advisory Service may have alerted Miss B to the 
fact that she wasnt dealing with a regulated financial adviser.
The Money Advice Leaflet is aimed at those approaching retirement and recommends 
seeking financial advice from an authorised individual or contacting TPAS for help. I think its 
a stretch to say this would have prompted Miss B to have found out that her adviser wasnt 
authorised. The Money Advice Service leaflet is substantively different in tone and content 
from the scorpion insert  not surprisingly given their respective aims  so Im not persuaded 
theyre as interchangeable as Utmost Ltd has argued.
Of course, there will be times when the scorpion insert doesnt resonate with a person or 
situations where the determination to transfer is such that someone will ignore all warnings. 
But Im satisfied Miss Bs situation is different. In short, I think if Utmost Ltd had sent the 
scorpion insert it would have made Miss B reconsider transferring.
Its also worth noting that there were other options available to Utmost Ltd if it wasnt able to 
adopt the scorpion guidance in good time. It could have chosen to temporarily delay the 
transfers, or investigated an extension to any transfer deadlines, to allow it to update its 
processes. (Given the timings, its possible Miss Bs proposed occupational scheme transfer 
was delayed for that reason.) I think anything along these lines would have still, ultimately, 
resulted in Miss B reconsidering her transfers. So, however I look at things, its evident 
Utmost Ltd should have done more and its failure to do so has resulted in Miss B transferring 
when she otherwise wouldnt have done.
Finally, one of Utmost Ltds arguments is that there was nothing that should have alerted it to 
potential problems with Miss Bs transfers. Its point being that under the pre-scorpion 
regime, it didnt have to investigate the circumstances of the transfer if there wasnt anything 
obviously suspicious about it. However, as Ive explained above, this lighter-touch approach wasnt appropriate given the scorpion guidance had already been in place for three months 
by the time Utmost Ltd sent Miss B her transfer papers.
Miss B agreed with my provisional conclusions, although she did comment on my proposed 
approach to compensation. Utmost Ltd disagreed and made a number of comments, which I 
address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the case carefully once again, including Utmost Ltds most recent 
comments, Im satisfied with my provisional decision and the reasoning behind it. However, 
for completeness, Ive outlined below Utmost Ltds response to my provisional decision (in 
summary form) along with my comments on its points.
Utmost Ltds comments: Utmost Ltd disagrees that the scorpion insert would have made 
a difference to Miss Bs decision to transfer. It says the only part of the insert that would 
have resonated with her was the fact that she was cold-called. 
My response: The fact that someone was cold-called could potentially be enough to have 
prompted a different course of action. There isnt a minimum number of warning signs 
someone has to meet in order for me to think the scorpion insert would have made a 
difference. Every case is different. That said, in this case, I think there was more than just 
the cold call that would have resonated with Miss B. As I said in my provisional decision, 
Miss B has also spoken about being rushed. She was also dealing with an unregulated 
entity. And she seems to have considered accessing tax-free cash to be one of the 
benefits of transferring. So I think there were a number of overlaps with the scorpion 
insert.
Also, Miss B has said  persuasively in my view  that she wouldnt have transferred had 
she seen the scorpion insert. Importantly, her actions would seem to support what she 
said because when she did receive the scorpion insert in relation to a different transfer a 
short time later, that transfer wasnt progressed.
On balance, therefore, I consider it more likely than not that the scorpion insert would 
have made a difference here.
Utmost Ltds comments: Miss B did not need to transfer from Utmost Ltd in order to 
access her tax-free cash when she reached the age of 55. There were no indications at 
the time that there were any concerns with the Talisman Retirement Plan or with any of its 
administrators. The scheme was registered in 2012 and was registered with HMRC.
My response: As Miss B had just turned 54 when she transferred, and didnt appear to 
have any money worries, there wasnt an obvious reason for her to transfer to a liberation 
scheme. She could have just waited a year and accessed her tax-free cash then. But my 
view was  and remains  that Miss B seemed to be under the impression that accessing 
tax-free cash was one of the benefits of transferring and that this is important context 
when considering what impact the scorpion insert would likely have had on her  as Ive 
described previously.
There is an argument that Miss Bs age in the run-up to the transfer might have made it 
less apparent to Utmost Ltd that there was a liberation threat. But this doesnt get around 
the fact that the scorpion insert should still have been sent  whether a liberation threat was apparent or not. Likewise, I dont need to comment on whether Utmost Ltd should, 
reasonably, have had concerns about the Talisman Retirement Plan because even if 
there were no obvious concerns, Utmost Ltd still had to send Miss B the scorpion insert  
and its failure to do so was key here for the reasons Ive already explained. 
Utmost Ltds comments: At the time of the transfer there was no requirement to conduct 
specific investigations into the nature of the receiving scheme nor was there a 
requirement to investigate the relationship between different entities.
My response: I disagree with Utmost Ltd in so far as there was a requirement for 
transferring schemes to investigate receiving schemes, and related parties, when there 
were warning signs of a liberation risk present. The potential warning signs were listed in 
the scorpion action pack. Follow-up avenues of investigation and courses of action  if 
required  were listed as well. 
However, the key point here is Utmost Ltds failure to send the scorpion insert. The extent 
of the due diligence that should have been done is of secondary importance in this 
particular case given Utmost Ltds failure to send the scorpion insert and the impact this 
had on Miss Bs transfer. This is reason enough to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Utmost Ltds comments: Around the same time as the transfer from Utmost Ltd, Miss B 
was considering transferring an occupational pension to the Talisman Retirement Plan. 
The occupational scheme sent her the scorpion insert. Even though Miss B says this 
caused her concern, she didnt raise any concerns with Utmost Ltd at the time and her 
complaint was only made in January 2019.
My response: I take from this that Utmost Ltd is saying Miss Bs actions in relation to her 
complaint suggest the attempted transfer of her occupational scheme wasnt a trigger for 
concern about her transfers from Utmost Ltd because otherwise she would have 
complained to Utmost Ltd straightaway. By extension this could cast doubt on her version 
of events. For instance, it might mean she didnt read the scorpion insert sent by her 
occupational scheme and the transfer from that scheme didnt go ahead for other 
reasons.
My response: The important point here is that Miss B didnt know her transfers from 
Utmost Ltd were going to be a problem when she received the scorpion insert from her 
occupational scheme. Yes, she started to have doubts. And, potentially, those doubts 
could have been a reason to complain. But, equally, the prompt for a complaint could, 
reasonably, have only come when problems with her receiving scheme started to 
manifest themselves  which was much later. So I dont think it was necessarily 
incongruous that Miss B didnt feel minded to complain to Utmost Ltd whilst other 
transfers were paused. For the avoidance of doubt, I have also considered whether Miss B complained too late 
under the rules that govern complaints such as this. There are various time limits I need 
to consider, as outlined in DISP 2.8.2R:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record 
of the complaint having been received
The key time limit in relation to Utmost Ltds comments is the six-year rule. It gave Miss B 
six years from the event complained of to make her complaint. Miss B is complaining 
about Utmost Ltds actions when it processed her transfer. This process started in May 
2013 and concluded in June 2013. Miss B complained to Utmost Ltd in January 2019. As 
such, Im satisfied she complained within the six years.
Utmost Ltds comments: Utmost Ltd is not authorised to give any form of advice on the 
suitability of pensions and investments. Miss B was sent the Money Advice Service 
booklet which encouraged her to obtain independent financial advice.
My response: Its certainly true that Utmost Ltds role wasnt to advise Miss B. But I never 
said it was. Its role was to provide Miss B with the scorpion insert and to be aware of 
potential warning signs of liberation risk. If those warning signs presented themselves, 
Utmost Ltd would have needed to undertake further enquiries to better establish if 
liberation was a threat and take further action if required. None of these steps would have 
required Utmost Ltd to advise Miss B.
As for the Money Advice Service booklet, I covered this in my provisional decision and my 
view on this hasnt changed. The scorpion insert would have warned Miss B about a 
number of things she had already experienced (a cold call for example) or was attempting 
to do (transfer a pension). And it was aimed at preventing liberation, which can be 
catastrophic for peoples pension savings. Not coincidently, the imagery and wording in 
the scorpion insert is stark. The Money Advice Service booklet was aimed at those 
approaching retirement. Not surprisingly, its tone and content are very different to the 
scorpion insert. As such, I dont think sending the Money Advice Service booklet was 
enough, and I think Miss B would have been more likely to have taken independent 
financial advice had she also been sent the scorpion insert.
Therefore, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Bs 
complaint. Utmost Ltd must put things right for Miss B by following the steps below.Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said Utmost Ltd should reinstate the value of Miss Bs former 
pension plans to their notional values had they continued running up to the date of my final 
decision. I allowed for income Miss B may have already received from the Talisman 
Retirement Plan and may still receive from that scheme. If Miss Bs policies couldnt be 
reinstated, I said Utmost Ltd should set up a new plan along the same lines. And if this 
wasnt possible, I said the compensation should be paid direct to Miss B.
Utmost Ltd doesnt have a way to reinstate Miss Bs policies and it is closed to new business 
meaning it cant set up a new policy for her either. Compensation should therefore be paid to 
Miss B in line with the approach outlined below. 
What should Utmost Ltd do?
My aim is that Miss B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if Utmost Ltd had acted as it should have done.
The Talisman Retirement Plan only seems to have been used in order for Miss B to make an 
investment that I dont think she would have made but for Utmost Ltds actions. So I think 
that Miss B would have remained in her pension plans with Utmost Ltd and wouldnt have 
transferred to the Talisman Retirement Plan.
I understand that a value for the Talisman Retirement Plan is unlikely to be available as the 
position of the investments made by the former trustees is uncertain. To compensate Miss B 
fairly, Utmost Ltd should determine the notional value of the policies Miss B formerly held 
with it, assuming they had continued running up to the date of my final decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Miss B received 
directly from the Talisman Retirement Plan which would have been permitted under the 
tax rules (and are therefore not being treated as incentives below) should be treated as 
notional withdrawals from Utmost Ltd on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease to 
take part in the calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Incentives
A downward adjustment may be made to the notional value to allow for any indirect cash 
benefits (including loans) Miss B was paid as a result of the transfer and/or any payments 
the Talisman Retirement Plan made to her before the age of 55 that it should not have 
been allowed to make (together, the incentives). Miss B is expected to evidence to 
Utmost Ltd the total amount of incentives as soon as possible, otherwise she will not be 
able to benefit from any reimbursement or indemnity regarding unauthorised payment 
charges caused specifically by these incentives (covered below).
This adjustment involves calculating what larger, gross amount would ordinarily need to 
have been withdrawn from the pension over the course of Miss Bs retirement, to leave her a 
net amount equal to the total incentives. Here, its reasonable to assume that Miss B is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of her pension 
would be taxed at 20% assuming she is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. 
As a result her net benefits would equal 85% of the gross benefits. So the total incentives (if 
any) should therefore be grossed-up by dividing them by 0.85, then they should be 
deducted from the notional value at the date of my final decision.Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Miss B needed a pension arrangement that 
wasnt privately held, administered by an established insurance company and under FCA 
regulation. So I dont think its appropriate for further compensation to be paid into the 
Talisman Retirement Plan.
For the reasons given above, Utmost Ltd must pay the notional value of her policies (with 
adjustments if applicable) direct to Miss B. But if this money had been in a pension, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore compensation paid in this way should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Miss B is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of her pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming she is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Miss B.
Reimbursement, indemnity and undertakings
In addition, Utmost Ltd must reimburse Miss B for any unauthorised payment tax charges 
that have been levied against her personally by HMRC. And it must also indemnify Miss B 
against any such charges arising in future as a result of unauthorised payments deemed to 
have been made before the date of my final decision.
The reimbursement or indemnity does not apply in respect of any incentives which Miss B 
has not already disclosed to the Financial Ombudsman Service or does not promptly 
disclose to Utmost Ltd, at the date of my final decision.
Utmost Ltd may also ask Miss B to provide an undertaking to do the following, when the 
value of her entitlement under the Talisman Retirement Plan has been finalised:
- Withdraw the proceeds of her entitlement from the Talisman Retirement Plan as tax-
free cash and income payments over a period of time agreed between 
Utmost Ltd and Miss B, so that the net amount Miss B receives can be returned to 
Utmost Ltd and she is not overcompensated.
Utmost Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Utmost Ltd asks 
Miss B to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Utmost Ltd receiving Miss Bs 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
Im satisfied Miss B would have found what happened distressing. She has, after all, been
put in the position of potentially losing a large portion of her pension savings. At the very
least, recovery of those savings is uncertain. So Utmost Ltd should also pay Miss B £300 for
its part in the distress and inconvenience she has been through.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Miss B in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint. Utmost Life and Pensions Limited must compensate Miss B by following the approach 
outlined above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman