DRN-2455163
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that he took under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a car. The car 
was four years old, had covered a little over 44,000 miles and had a cash price of just over 
£11,000.
In July 2019  two months after he took delivery of the car  Mr B reported a number of 
problems with it. I dont need to set them out here, but they included an issue with the tyre 
pressure management system (TPMS); a dashboard warning light was suggesting that tyres 
needed inflating.
Repairs were carried out under warranty, but Mr B reported that the issue with the TPMS 
remained. Mr B also complained that the courtesy car hed been provided with while the 
repairs were carried out was much smaller than his car.
In October 2019 an independent inspection was carried out and a report prepared. The 
report recorded that Mr B had said there were problems with the gearbox, noisy brakes and 
that brake lights remained on. The engineer found no problems with the gearbox and no 
excessive noise from the brakes. The brake lights worked as they should.
The engineer did note however that the TPMS light remained illuminated. This wasnt, 
however, a critical issue and was most likely caused by responders needing replacement 
batteries  which was a service issue. MotoNovo said that it had no liability for further 
repairs, since the issue with the TPMS was one that could be attributed to wear and tear.
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. While 
he was doing so, Mr B submitted a further report, this time showing wear to tyres and brake 
discs and pads.
The investigator concluded that the wear to the brakes and tyres were matters of wear and 
tear. He wasnt persuaded however that the same was true of the TPMS and recommended 
that MotoNovo take responsibility for repairs to the system. He thought that Mr B had been 
treated fairly in respect of the courtesy car, noting that he had also been offered a payment 
for a hire car.
MotoNovo didnt accept the investigators recommendations, so I considered the case. 
Because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision, inviting the parties to submit further comments if they wanted 
to do so.
I agreed with the investigators findings about the tyres, brake pads and brake discs. The 
issues with these items were down to wear and tear and didnt mean the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at delivery. I also agreed with what the investigator said about the 
courtesy car. Mr B had been provided with a car while his was being repaired, and I thought 
that was fair. 
As far as the TPMS fault was concerned, I noted that the engineer had been unable to 
determine exactly what caused the TPMS warning light to stay on. He thought though that 
the most likely explanation was that it was a service issue. It was not unusual in a car of the 
age and mileage of Mr Bs. 
I said that the car should have been of the quality which a reasonable person might expect in 
the circumstances; the engineers report indicated that it was reasonable to expect that the 
TPMS might need routine servicing in the form of replacement batteries. For these reasons, I 
didnt recommend that MotoNovo take any further steps to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say that, even though the manufacturer had 
done work on the car, the TPMS light remained illuminated. He provided photographs 
showing that. He said that he had been advised that this was not a simple tyre pressure 
issue.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, Im not minded to change my conclusions from those I reached 
in my provisional decision.  
I can understand that this is frustrating for Mr B and that he wants the car repaired so that 
the warning light functions correctly. It seems that the manufacturers engineer has not been 
able repair the TPMS light. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision, however, the engineer who carried out the 
independent inspection said that the problem with the TPMS light was not unusual, even if it 
was not expected. He also said that it was not a critical issue. I note that Mr B has been able 
to continue using the car. 
Whilst Mr B has said that the manufacturer has not fixed the issue, the most reliable 
evidence of what is causing it is the independent engineers report. That concludes that it 
most likely to be a wear and tear issue relating to replacement batteries. Mr B hasnt said 
however what, if anything, the manufacturer has done to try to resolve the issue  for 
example, whether the batteries have been replaced.
I accept that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mr B. It had a 
number of faults which were repaired under warranty. Once that had been done, however, 
Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory quality. The issue with the TPMS light did not 
mean that the car was unsatisfactory in the circumstances.
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont require MotoNovo Finance Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman