DRN-2529791
The complaint
Mr S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited has declined his buildings insurance claim 
for water damage to his home. 
What happened
In mid-August 2020, Mr S noticed his lounge ceiling was bowing. He checked the bathroom 
above but couldnt see any water leaks. He asked his neighbour who was training to qualify 
as a plumber to have a look. He checked all the pipework, toilet, sink and bath and couldnt 
find a leak. He also checked the central heating boiler but could find no leak there. Mr S then 
went outside and he noticed that part of the fascia and soffit on the roof was missing which 
was directly in line with the lounge ceiling. He thought the water was coming down through 
there as there had been some recent bad weather.
Mr S made a claim to Fairmead. It said he needed to provide it with a cause of damage 
report from a contractor of his own. Mr S was unhappy Fairmead wouldnt send any of its 
own contractors to inspect the damage so he complained. Fairmead agreed to send round a 
surveyor to look at the damage. Just before the surveyors visit part of the lounge ceiling 
collapsed. Mr S thought the very wet weather in the preceding few days mustve got in. 
The surveyor inspected the damage and told Mr S his policy wouldnt cover the damage. He 
noted the damage to the lounge was the result of a deteriorated bath seal which was 
excluded from cover. The external damage he thought was caused by the natural 
breakdown of the materials over time which was also excluded from cover. 
Unhappy with what the surveyor told him, Mr S complained to Fairmead. Fairmead reviewed 
the information it had about the claim but remained of the same view that it wasnt covered 
by the policy. It did pay Mr S compensation of £50 for the shortcomings in its customer 
service which he accepted.
Unhappy with the outcome of Fairmeads investigation, Mr S complained to this service. He 
said he felt let down by Fairmeads surveyor who he felt hadnt investigated the issues 
properly. In particular he said hed failed to go up a ladder to inspect the roof, instead using a 
camera, and he hadnt taken off the bath panel. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
didnt think, taking the policy terms into account, that Fairmead had unfairly declined Mr Ss 
claim for water damage. Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he didnt 
know, without removing the bath panel, how the surveyor could confirm the damage was 
caused by failed sealant. And he said the area of the roof where he thought water was 
coming in was covered up to protect it from further damage but that the surveyor declined to 
go up and remove the covering and inspect what was beneath. So, he said, he didnt know, 
without doing so, how the surveyor could be certain the damage to the roof wasnt the cause 
of the water damage to the lounge. 
Our investigator looked again at the complaint but wasnt persuaded by what Mr S had said 
to change her mind. Mr S asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision and he asked specifically for his comments about the nature of the surveyors 
inspection to be noted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured perils (events) listed in the policy  theft, escape of water, 
storm, flood etc.  is covered. If the policy holder can show the damage was caused by one 
of the events listed in the policy then the insurer must settle the claim unless it can 
successfully apply one of the exclusions in the policy to defeat the claim. 
Here, Mr S has overcome the first hurdle: it is clear that his home has been damaged by one 
of the events listed in his policy namely, an escape of water. But despite him being able to 
show thats the case, Fairmead has chosen to rely on one of the policy exclusions in order to 
decline to cover the claim. 
I have to decide if Fairmead has fairly applied the exclusion its relied on based on the 
evidence available to it. Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr S, I 
have to say I think it has. 
The exclusion Fairmead has relied on is a general one (that applies across the whole policy). 
Under the section entitled General Exceptions it says: This policy does not insure the 
following: 
11. Loss or damage arising from:
- gradual causes
- wear and tear
- corrosion, deterioration or similar causes
- wet or dry rot.
The only expert evidence about the cause of damage to the lounge ceiling is the report 
produced by Fairmeads surveyor. I can see he took an extensive amount of photographs 
not only of the damaged lounge ceiling but the sealant around the bath, and the roof too. I 
can see that there is some black plastic (possibly a bin liner) fixed in and around a section of 
the fascia and guttering on the roof. There are photographs too of a leaking guttering joint 
that has caused rotting to the fascia. 
With regards to the roof, the surveyor concluded that the materials had broken 
down/deteriorated over time. From the photographs Ive seen that seems a reasonable 
conclusion to have reached. I know that Mr S thinks that the surveyor shouldve gone up on 
the roof to inspect it but hes not obliged to do so. Surveyors are experienced in assessing 
and inspecting damage and Im not sure what else Fairmeads surveyor wouldve discovered 
if hed removed the plastic. Mr S has said he told the surveyor that part of the soffit and 
fascia was missing and that he had made the hole safe. Ive not seen anything to show that 
the surveyor didnt accept what Mr S had said. That being the case, it wasnt unreasonable 
not to go up on the roof and remove the plastic. 
And its reasonable to think that if the roof damage had allowed water into the house then 
that wouldve manifested itself upstairs first. But theres no evidence the upstairs ceiling or 
walls were damaged by water getting in from the roof. Consequently, as the damage to the 
roof doesnt appear to have been caused by any of the events listed in the policy, I dont 
think Fairmead unfairly declined to cover it. I can see from the photographs that there are gaps in the sealant around the bath and that 
some of the grout in the tiles is also crumbling. From the photographs taken of the exposed 
first floor joists and chipboard floor from the lounge below (underneath where the ceiling 
collapsed) I can see both new and historic water staining. The visible pipework looks intact. 
Given the condition of the sealant and the evident water damage to the first-floor chipboard I 
think that the surveyors conclusion that water was escaping down the side of the bath and 
evidently damaging the bathroom floorboard is a reasonable one. There is no evidence of a 
leaking pipe (nor could Mr Ss neighbour find any). I know Mr S thinks the surveyor shouldve 
taken the bath panel off but the decision on how best to assess the damage is the surveyors 
to take. And the visible evidence of the damage he saw was enough to allow him to reach 
the conclusion that the ceiling had come down as a result of water getting behind the bath. 
So, I dont think it was necessary for him to have removed the bath panel in order to have 
reached a reasonable conclusion about what had caused the damage. 
That the water managed to damage the lounge ceiling was a result of a deteriorated bath 
sealant. And damage caused by deterioration is excluded from cover under the policy. That 
being the case, I cant fairly require Fairmead to accept Mr Ss claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman