DRN-1419093
 
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about loans granted to her by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream (Gain Credit or the lender). Mrs R says that she shouldnt have been given the 
loans because she couldnt afford the repayments. She says the lender should have known 
this as she had other short term loans at the time and a low credit rating.  
What happened
Gain Credit agreed three loans for Mrs R from August to October 2011. The loans were all 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months and ranged in value from £100 to £230. The 
below table sets out some information Gain Credit has provided about these loans (with 
numbers rounded to the nearest pound).   
Loan Start date Closed date Principal (£)Repayments 
(£)
1 15/08/2011 01/02/2012 150 60
2 16/09/2011 23/08/2018 230 92
3 16/10/2011 01/02/2012 100 40
 
I understand that Mrs R had some difficulty repaying her second loan and Gain Credit 
acknowledged this and offered her compensation, which she accepted. In bringing her 
complaint to this Service Mrs R said that she wanted her other two loans to be looked into. 
So my decision deals with the loans remaining in dispute, in other words loans 1 and 3 as 
set out above.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Rs complaint and found that Gain Credit wasnt 
irresponsible when it agreed loans 1 and 3 for her. Mrs R disagreed with this outcome and 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and make a final decision. So the 
complaint has come to me to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. 
The Office of Fair Trading was the regulator when Mrs R borrowed from Gain Credit. The 
regulators rules and guidance said that for all loans Gain Credit needed to check that Mrs R 
could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mrs R being able 
to meet her repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow 
further. The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Gain Credit needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mrs R would be able to meet her repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Gain Credit says it asked Mrs R for information about her income and expenses each time 
she applied for a loan. The lender recorded Mrs Rs monthly income as around £1,700 and 
her monthly expenses as £1,000 when she first applied. It recorded her income as £2,000 
and her total expenses as £800 at the time of her third loan. Gain Credit also said that it 
checked Mrs Rs credit rating through a third party credit reference agency and that her 
score was satisfactory. Its credit check record around the time of her first loan shows an old 
default and, additionally, a more recent one around the time of her third loan.   
I think that Gain Credits checks for Mrs Rs loans were proportionate. The information she 
gave about her income and expenses indicated that the repayments were likely to be 
affordable, even considering that her three loans ran concurrently so her overall repayment 
was higher for her third loan. 
I appreciate that Gain Credit knew Mrs R had a recent default on her credit file when she 
applied for her third loan but I cant say that this alone means that it shouldnt have agreed 
credit for her. And looking at her repayment record it seems she made her repayments for 
her first two loans throughout September, October and November so there werent any signs 
in her earlier history with Gain Credit to indicate that she might have had difficulty repaying a 
third loan.
I understand from what Mrs R has told this Service that she was not in a good position 
financially when she applied to Gain Credit for her loans. However, I have borne in mind that 
the information someone might see when they request a copy of their credit file might be 
different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. The data might not be up to date, or the lender 
may not have requested all of the available data from the credit reference agency. So, this 
may explain any differences between the information Gain Credit received from its credit 
check and the information Mrs R says it should have seen. In some cases I might think that 
a lender ought to have taken steps to understand the full extent of a borrowers financial 
situation, but as Ive explained above I think Gain Credit carried out proportionate checks 
here. And, finally, Ive also considered Mrs Rs relationship history with Gain Credit and the pattern 
of lending over this time. But, in this case, I dont think the number of loans or the length of 
time Mrs R borrowed over was enough in and of itself to show that agreeing credit for her 
was likely to have been unsustainable or harmful. 
I dont doubt that things have not been easy for Mrs R and Im sorry to hear of her financial 
difficulties. I can understand why she feels Gain Credit shouldnt have agreed to lend to her. 
However, as Ive explained, I dont think it did anything wrong by agreeing her first or third 
loan for her in the circumstances of this case. And so I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Mrs Rs complaint and so dont require 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to pay her compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman