DRN-4058666
The complaint
Mr A complains National Westminster Bank Plc failed to act when his account showed signs
of excessive gambling.
What happened
The Investigator set out the background to this complaint in detail, so I wont repeat it again
here. Instead, Ill provide a summary of the key points.
Mr A held a current account with NatWest. Between June 2019 and August 2019 Mr A made
numerous transactions to betting operators. The amounts ranged in value from £500 to
£10,000. The movement on the account indicates the funds for the gambling transactions
came from Mr As income, savings, investments and from a loan for £25,000. The
transactions stopped in August 2019.
In October 2021 Mr A raised a complaint with NatWest. Mr A explained that the activity on
his account was significantly outside his usual pattern of spending between June and 2019
and August 2019. Mr A says NatWest shouldve noted this and intervened, as if it had it
couldve prevented him from incurring losses. In particular Mr A says he was vulnerable at
the time due to his mental health conditions and difficult employment situation. In order to
resolve his complaint Mr A says NatWest should refund his losses of £32,669.80 and pay
the recommended 8% statutory interest. Mr A also feels he should be awarded £3,500 for
the distress that he has suffered.
NatWest reviewed Mr As concerns and didnt agree it had acted unfairly. It explained that Mr
A was gambling his own money and that gambling is not a prohibited activity. It said it was
not aware of Mr As mental health condition and it isnt persuaded that any intervention from
it wouldve altered Mr As behaviour at the time.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response Mr A referred his complaint to our service. An
Investigator reviewed Mr As concerns and found that the activity was unusual and it
wouldve been fair for NatWest to contact Mr A about the transactions. However, the 
Investigator found it was not possible to determine what impact this wouldve had. They
recommended NatWest pay Mr A £200 in recognition of the impact this failing had on Mr A.
NatWest accepted this recommendation.
Mr A remained unhappy with the review of his complaint and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 March 2023, which I have included below.
Provisional Decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Investigator explained there wasnt any indication Mr A was facing financial hardship at
the time the excessive gambling transactions took place. Having reviewed Mr As account
history, I agree with this  Mr A was generally managing his finances well and there were no
signs of Mr A struggling with payments.
I have then gone on to consider the main crux of Mr As complaint  the lack of intervention
from NatWest when he carried out excessive gambling. Mr As statements prior to June
2019 show general spending on the account and transfers between his accounts. There is a
regular direct debit for the lottery. But in the three years leading up to June 2019 I cant see
any signs of regular or by any means significant gambling.
The statements available show that the 28 June 2019 saw a pivotal change in Mr As
spending. From this point onwards Mr A was spending excessive amounts on gambling. For
example, on 29 July 2019 Mr A gambled £60,000 online. Mr A was also moving large
amounts of money between accounts to fund this gambling. These transactions didnt trigger
any alerts for NatWest and prompt it to get in touch with Mr A. It is clear the activity on his
account changed significantly and I think at this point NatWest shouldve been in touch with
Mr A to discuss the recent activity on his accounts to see if there was any potential for
vulnerability. The FCA requires businesses such as NatWest to be alert to changes in
behaviour and the potential for customer vulnerability.
The next key question is whether any pro-active steps by NatWest wouldve made a
difference to Mr As behaviour, and in turn the losses he experienced. Mr A has provided a
detailed psychiatric report which outlines the health issues he was experiencing at the time.
Within the report there is reference to Mr As mental state at the time of the transactions. It
reads: there is good evidence to suggest that Mr As mental health was significantly affected
during June-August 2019 by considering his medical records at the time, his established
psychiatric diagnoses as well as his prior treatment response to/ natural history of these,
recent medication changes and the stress upon him at the time resulting from his highly
distinguished career being threatened. The report provides details of Mr As health
conditions and the impact these have on his behaviour. The report then summarises with the
following points: Overall, despite the absence of a standardised cognitive screening tool and
contemporaneous capacity assessment, I consider it likely that the nature of Mr As betting
behaviour in July-August 2019 was related to compromised cognition and capacity
secondary to his diagnosed mental health difficulties as well as more proximal stressors.
Based on the evidence I have seen I am minded to uphold this complaint. I think NatWest
failed to recognise Mr As vulnerability at the time. As outlined by the medical health
professional within the report Mr A was under extreme stress which in his opinion had an
impact on Mr As capacity and decision-making abilities. Ultimately, the activity on the
account was enough to alert NatWest that something had shifted in Mr As circumstances
and it failed to take adequate steps to assist Mr A. In Mr As specific case I think there is
enough evidence to say that intervention couldve prompted a change in Mr As behaviour 
and thus reduced the gambling losses Mr A experienced. The fact Mr As gambling abruptly
ends towards the end of August 2019 further demonstrates Mr A was experiencing an
abnormal episode in his spending behaviour.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr As representative responded accepting my provisional decision. They explained there 
was a total loss of £55,391.80. 
Mr As representatives also requested NatWest pay 8% interest on the losses Mr A has 
incurred. They also requested a distress and inconvenience payment, and for its 
professional costs to be covered.NatWest responded and explained that its records showed a loss of £32,309.80. NatWest 
offered to make a good will gesture offer and reimburse Mr A £16,154.90  half the losses 
he incurred. 
As both sides have responded to my provisional decision, I will now issue my final decision 
on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As representative has asked for Mr As legal fees to be covered. I appreciate Mr A has 
incurred legal costs, however our service is free for consumers. Mr A made the decision to 
appoint a legal representative, but this wasnt necessary and would not have impacted our 
review or Mr As complaint. So I dont think this is a cost NatWest should be held responsible 
for.
Mr A has also requested a distress and inconvenience payment, as this has been a long and 
arduous process for Mr A. I understand Mr As complaint has been on-going for some time. 
However, complaints are by their very nature time consuming and it doesnt always follow 
that a complaint being found in a consumers favour means additional compensation is due. 
Ive considered the timeline of events and NatWests handling of the case, and I havent 
seen anything in the circumstances of the complaint that warrants a separate distress and 
inconvenience payment. 
Ive also considered NatWests offer of half the losses incurred by Mr A during the relevant 
period. I dont think this goodwill offer is adequate. As outlined in the provisional decision, I 
think NatWest shouldve acted when the activity on Mr As account changed significantly.
There is also a significant discrepancy between the figures for gambling losses provided by 
Mr As representative and NatWest. Having reviewed Mr As statements, Im satisfied the 
key date is 28 June 2019, and NatWest should calculate any losses from this date up to 31 
August 2019.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should compensate Mr A by taking the following steps:
Review Mr As statements from 28 June 2019 onwards and compensate Mr A for any
gambling relating losses he has incurred up to 31 August 2019.
Apply 8% interest simple on the losses Mr A has incurred up until the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman