DRN-2058852
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund him what he paid using, 
in part, his Santander credit card to buy a used car which he says was misrepresented to 
him. He brings his complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
 What happened
In May 2019 Mr W saw a used car for sale at a dealer Ill call D. The car had been first 
registered in July 2012, and had a recorded mileage of 83,000 miles. Mr W agreed to buy it 
for £7,400. He paid a deposit of £500 using his Santander credit card, and paid the balance 
by transfer from his bank account.
After he bought the car, Mr W experienced some problems with the car, including the car 
changing gears erratically and fuel consumption increasing. He took it to his local garage (G) 
who found that the DSG gearbox had never been serviced. G said this could cause this type 
of problem.
The car had been advertised as having a full service history. Mr W contacted the 
manufacturer who said that it recommended that the DSG gearbox should be serviced by 
changing the oil every 40,000 miles. If it wasnt, this could lead to the gears jumping, or in 
extreme situations the gearbox having to be replaced. The manufacturer said it considered 
this part of its servicing regime.
Mr W thought this meant that the car didnt have a full service history as advertised, and 
wanted to reject the car. D didnt agree to this, so he complained to Santander under Section 
75. He wanted Santander to refund what he had paid for the car, and some consequential 
costs he had incurred since buying it. 
Santander wasnt satisfied there had been a misrepresentation by G. It said the 
manufacturer didnt mention the gearbox servicing as part of a minor or major service. It said 
with a car of this age and mileage there were always likely to be some wear and tear issues. 
Mr W had covered over 8,000 miles in the car in the first two months after buying it. So it 
was evidently in working order, and no faults had been proven.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that for    
Mr W to establish a claim against Santander under Section 75 he had to show a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by D under the car sale contract. If he did, Santander would be 
equally liable with D for them.
The investigator said a misrepresentation was a statement of fact made by one person to 
another that wasnt true, and which induced the other party to enter into a contract  in this 
case to buy the car.
The investigator had spoken to the manufacturer, and listened carefully to what the 
manufacturer had said to Mr W. He accepted that if the car had throughout its life been 
supported by the manufacturers network, then the DSG service would have been 
recommended and carried out by the manufacturers service agents at 40,000 mile intervals. 
However, this car had been serviced throughout its life outside the manufacturers network, 
as was evident from the stamps on the service booklet supplied with the car. While the car 
had its regular minor and major services, the DSG servicing  was something that was 
recommended outside of these services, for which extra had to be paid.
A DSG service wasnt something that was mandatory like an MOT, and the manufacturers 
requirements were likely to be higher than those of a local garage. The investigator thought 
a full service history was not necessarily the same as a full dealer service history or a full 
manufacturers service history.
So while he could understand that the manufacturer wouldnt be comfortable selling this car 
through its network with a full service history, the investigator didnt think a dealer outside 
that network couldnt sell the car as having a full service history.
Given the age and mileage of the car at delivery, and the 8,000 miles Mr W covered in it 
during the first two months, the investigator wasnt persuaded that there was anything which 
could amount to a breach of contract in relation to the description or condition of the car as 
supplied by D. 
Although Mr W had said he had contacted Santander within the first 30 days to reject the 
car, and had been refused, the investigator hadnt seen any evidence that a call was 
received by Santander during this period.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The service paperwork supplied to Mr W with the car shows inspection services being 
regularly carried out on the car, with oil and brake fluid being changed at intervals. Alongside 
is shown a column for additional work, to be ticked as appropriate. The majority of such 
items ticked are filters. There is a box for DSG oil and filter, but it is never ticked.
I agree with the investigator that there is a difference between a full service history and a 
full manufacturers service history when buying a used car. A buyer could reasonably 
expect a car to have enjoyed a higher standard of care if it had been looked after within the 
manufacturers service network throughout its life, and with records available in such 
network.
This wasnt the case here. The basic servicing information was present. As far as one can 
see all the services have been recorded. But there is no additional information. If Mr W 
wanted to know the mechanical history of the car, he would have to have approached the 
previous owner. Im not persuaded that when selling the car D misrepresented anything to 
Mr W.
Like the investigator, I dont think any breach of contract by D has been established in 
relation to the sale of the car for which I can hold Santander responsible under Section 75. 
And Ive seen no evidence that Mr W approached Santander in the first 30 days to try to 
cancel the sale.
So I dont require Santander to do anything more.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Santander UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman