DRN-2328701
The complaint
Mr H complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says the loan was 
unaffordable at the time it was approved, and TFS oughtve known this. Mr H says TFS did 
not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before it lent to him.
What happened
Mr H applied for a guarantor loan in March 2014 with TFS. The loan was for £3,000 with a 
48-month term. The repayments were approximately £150 per month. Mr H says at the time 
he applied for the loan he was experiencing financial difficulties. He says he had recently 
gone through a difficult divorce, which had included selling his home. He says the process 
was very upsetting to him, and had resulted in him paying for loans, and entering into 
defaults. He says had TFS completed reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve seen 
the loan was unaffordable to him. 
TFS responded to Mr Hs complaint disagreeing it had lent irresponsibly. TFS says it 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks, and these showed the loan was affordable.
TFS says it completed an income and expenditure assessment which it verified with Mr Hs 
payslips. It says it also completed a credit search. TFS says this credit search showed that 
Mr H had had issues with credit in the past; in particular that he had a number of registered 
defaults. TFS says he checked these with Mr H and he explained these related to his 
divorce.
Mr H also explained the loan from TFS was to be used to help consolidate some of his 
debts. TFS says it conducted a review into his existing debts and agreed to use 
approximately £950 of the loan to settle one of Mr Hs existing debts directly. TFS say after 
completing these checks, as well doing a detailed income and expenditure assessment; that 
the loan was affordable. On this basis it says its decision to lend was fair.
I wrote to both Mr H and TFS loans with my provisional decision. In this provisional decision I 
set out my provisional findings; and asked for all parties to respond with their comments. My 
provisional findings were set out as below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry 
practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs 
complaint. Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are two 
overarching questions that I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably 
determine Mr Hs complaint. These are:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H, each time it lent, 
to
satisfy itself that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do
so?
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Turning to the first of two questions; the regulations which applied at the time, 
required TFS to carry out an assessment on whether Mr H could repay any loan in 
sustainable way. These checks are referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check. In making this affordability assessment, TFS needed to ensure 
any checks were borrower focused.
This means TFS needed to consider if any repayments Mr H made would cause
him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his finances. The 
checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to 
be reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of 
repayments and total length of the term. In practice generally this means that the 
lower the income of an applicant, or the longer the term of any loan, the more 
thorough the checks need to be for them to be proportionate to the circumstances.
It is also not sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs to
consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Finally, it is also important to note that the fact Mr Hs loan was a guarantor loan, and
therefore had the security of a guarantee, didnt remove or anyway lessen the  
obligations which applied to TFS at the time Mr H applied for the loan.
TFS says it completed a proportionate credit assessment. It says it asked Mr H for 
his income and verified this via his payslips. These payslips showed Mr Hs income 
was approximately £4,500. TFS asked Mr H for his outgoings. It says it took details of 
his major outgoings such as rent, food and other credit commitments.
It says it asked questions about Mr Hs outstanding credit commitments and agreed 
to pay one of these commitments directly. This was for approximately £925. It agreed 
to pay the remaining balance of the loan to Mr Hs guarantor.
TFS also completed a credit search at the time of the application. This showed that 
Mr H had a number of historic defaulted accounts. It also showed that he had existing 
commitments which was consistent with his declaration (and the fact TFS were 
paying one of the commitments directly). TFS says it asked Mr H about the defaults, 
and he explained these were due in part to his divorce. TFS argues these checks 
combined were proportionate to the amount being borrowed; and therefore, it acted 
fairly.
Mr H says these checks werent proportionate, and in particular further checks 
wouldve shown that he was unable to meet the payments sustainably.
Ive considered both parties arguments, and Im not persuaded that the TFS checks 
were proportionate in this instance. Whilst TFS have verified Mr Hs income via 
payslips, it did not verify his outgoings. I feel this would have been proportionate in this instance, as Mr Hs credit file and own expenditure declaration confirmed that he 
was going through a difficult financial period which was exacerbated by his divorce.
Indeed, the credit file search TFS completed demonstrated Mr H mayve had some 
issues maintaining credit in the past. In particular there were multiple defaults. I 
appreciate Mr H did attribute these to his divorce during the call with TFS, but 
considering the number and timing of these, I feel further checks wouldve been 
proportionate in this instance.
I also note that from the information Ive been provided, Mr H only provided TFS with 
his payslips for December 2013 and February 2014. Whilst these payslips show a 
consistent income, the absence of January 2014 I think also raises questions over 
the proportionality of the checks, and on balance shouldve prompted TFS to ask 
further questions.
So for these reasons combined Im persuaded TFSs checks werent proportionate in 
this instance.
As I dont feel proportionate checks were completed, I have to decide what I think 
further checks wouldve shown; and if they wouldve shown Mr H would be able to 
sustainably repay his loan. In this instance Im persuaded further information to get a 
better understanding of Mr Hs financial situation wouldve been appropriate. TFS 
couldve achieved this through obtaining Mr Hs bank statements.
Mr H has provided our service with these statements, and Ive considered this 
information when coming to my provisional decision.
The first thing to note is that Mr Hs income for the months of December 2013 and 
February 2014 are in line with the payslips and declaration that he gave TFS when 
applying for the loan. There is a decrease in his January 2014 statement. The 
income for that month dropped significantly compared to the others  approximately 
£1,200 less. Mr H has explained that he thinks this deduction was due to a large tax 
bill. Ive considered whether this lower figure should be taken into account, and 
whether TFS were right to use his stated income of approximately £4,500 to assess 
Mr Hs creditworthiness.
Having done so; Im minded to agree with TFS. That is to say I think it is and was fair 
for it to use Mr Hs stated income in this instance. I say this because the £4,500 
figure seems to be his more accurate regular figure when looking across the 
statements. And is also the figure which Mr H did give TFS, so it is entitled to rely on 
this.
The statements do however show that Mr Hs outgoings were significantly higher 
than those which he declared to TFS. The most notable outgoing being payments Mr 
H was making to his former partner for mortgage payments and child maintenance 
payments. This is a significant contradiction to Mr Hs application where he stated he 
had no dependants. The payments for this vary during the statements which Mr Hs 
has provided. The lower figure being around £1,300 and the higher approximately 
£5,400. Mr H has explained to our service that the lower figure was his agreed child 
maintenance payment, and the increased payment was a combination of child 
payments and mortgage payments.
TFS has highlighted that Mr H settled his mortgage in February 2014 as part of his 
divorce. Mr H has also confirmed that he moved in with family after this process to 
live. This is consistent with his declared expenses for rent.Having considered what Mr H has said I feel it is appropriate that TFS shouldve 
taken into consideration Mr Hs outgoings for child maintenance. I can see these 
payments continued after the loan was approved by TFS. In this instance I think it 
wouldve been fair for TFS to consider the £1,300 as a regular outgoing. I say this 
because it is fair to assume on once the former home had been sold Mr H would no 
longer be making mortgage contributions to his former partner. As the higher amount 
included mortgage payments, the £1,300 figure is truer reflection of Mr Hs outgoing 
commitment. With these two things in mind Ive considered TFS creditworthiness 
assessment, and whether the loan wouldve been affordable to Mr H. Having done 
so, Im currently minded to say it wouldve been.
When TFS completed its original creditworthiness assessment it calculated that Mr H 
had approximately £2,700 disposable income. Based on what Ive explained above, 
clearly, I disagree that is accurate.
However, reviewing Mr Hs statements, and including the higher outgoings for his 
child maintenance payments I still feel Mr H wouldve had sufficient disposable 
income to meet the necessary payments. Ive used his statements to understand his 
regular outgoings include rent, his spending on food, existing credit commitments 
and other essentials such as utilities.
It is also important to note Mr Hs outgoings commitments wouldve been lowered by 
the fact TFS was paying off one of his existing creditors directly.
So, taking all of this into account, from what Ive seen so far, Im minded to say the 
loan was affordable. And on that basis, whilst the checks completed werent 
proportionate, even if they had been, I think TFS wouldve seen Mr H would have 
been able to sustainably make the payments and still lent. On that basis Im not 
persuaded Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
Mr H responded to the provisional decision disagreeing with it. He explained that at the point 
he applied for the loan with TFS, he was in financial difficulties and had a high level of 
existing debt. He says he was in a debt management plan, and that TFS shouldnt have lent 
to him.  Mr H still maintains the checks were not proportionate, and that the payments were 
unsustainable to him. 
TFS did not provide further information in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs response to my provisional decision; however, my decision 
on his complaint remains unchanged.
Mr H says his complaint centres on the fact he was in financial difficulties, which included 
being in a debt management plan. He says this shouldve prevented TFS from lending to 
him. And it wouldnt have done so had it completed proportionate checks.
Whilst I agree with Mr H, that TFS didnt complete proportionate checks; I disagree this 
means TFS shouldnt have lent to him. Ive explained in my provisional decision the level of 
checks that TFS completed; and that it was aware of Mr Hs existing credit commitments. 
TFS noted that it asked Mr H about his existing commitments including any debt management plans; and he explained these defaults were attributable to aspects of his 
divorce or that he wasnt aware of them. I also note the purpose of his loan was for debt 
consolidation. So overall, Im satisfied TFS were aware of the financial situation Mr H was in.
However, as I explained in my provisional decision; in this instance Im not persuaded that it 
follows TFS shouldnt have lent to Mr H. Ive explained in my provisional decision why I was 
persuaded the loan was affordable to Mr H. Namely that some of his existing debt was being 
consolidated, and his income and declared outgoings meant that he had a sufficient amount 
of income to meet his monthly repayments. I should explain that in coming to that conclusion 
I included Mr Hs existing credit commitments, as they appeared on his bank statements and 
credit file. While Ive considered Mr Hs further submissions, it remains the case that there 
isnt anything on his bank statements which conclusively demonstrates that he couldnt 
afford to make the monthly repayments for this loan; and as such Im persuaded in this 
instance to stay with my findings.
I appreciate Mr H was going through a difficult time; and he had existing credit commitments, 
but Im not persuaded this means in this instance TFS shouldnt have lent. Im also 
persuaded by the fact that when asked about his existing credit commitments; Mr H 
explained these. As such Im not persuaded any further conversation TFS wouldve had 
about his debts wouldve led it to conclude that Mr H wasnt in a position to sustainably repay 
his loan. So, I dont agree with him when he says proportionate checks in this instance 
wouldve stopped TFS from lending to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman