DRN-2654533
The complaint
Mr A complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of legal services which werent provided.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr A paid a legal firm, which I will call L, £1,895 for legal services. He says 
he paid for legal advice both written and verbal and an introduction to a specialist form of 
solicitors. He says he received none of these things. L rejected his complaint and it says it 
advised him to take matters to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mr A made a Section 75 claim, but this was rejected by Sainsburys. It asked for evidence of 
the contract and Ls failure to deliver what had been agreed. It also contacted L which said it 
had asked Mr A for permission to release material, but this had not been received. It told 
Sainsburys that a barrister had been appointed and due to time constraints advice had been 
provided by phone and not in writing. The barrister had offered to reduce his fee, but this had 
been rejected. Sainsburys offed Mr A £25 for delays in dealing with the matter.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that without seeing a copy of the 
contract it was difficult to say what service had been promised or what had been delivered. 
In the circumstances he considered the bank had acted fairly.
Mr A didnt agree and said that both the bank and our investigator had sought a written 
contract which didnt exist and wasnt necessary in the pursuit of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Neither party has suggested that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain has been broken and so 
it falls to me to consider if there has been either misrepresentation or a breach of contract. 
There has been little evidence submitted in this complaint setting out what happened. Mr A 
made a payment to L of £1,895 for undisclosed legal services and he asserts those services 
werent provided. I have seen a few emails, but these add little light as to what happened. Mr 
A says the issue concerned property and family matters and he received nothing from L, but 
it says it appointed a barrister who provided advice by phone. Mr A denies receiving a call. 
L has said that it is unable to provide further information without Mr As consent which he 
has withheld. In turn Mr A bases his claim primarily on assertion. 
I agree that a contract does not have to be committed to writing and given Mr A paid L it is a 
reasonable conclusion that there was some form of agreement. However, the problem with 
verbal contracts is that it is difficult to identify what has been agreed. I would have expected 
to see some written communications to add some clarity to the verbal contract. However, the 
evidence is sparse. 
Mr A has asked the bank to pay him £1,895 and in turn it has said can you provide some 
evidence of what was agreed and what was delivered. I cannot see that Mr A has supplied 
this. It is only reasonable that the bank be given something more than Mr As assertion 
before paying him a significant sum. Both the bank and this service has asked for evidence 
in support of the claim seeking clarification of what had been purchased and what had been 
delivered along with clarification of how and when the breach occurred. The lack of detail 
makes it difficult to demonstrate the validity of the claim.  So, while I have every sympathy 
with Mr A I regret I am unable to uphold his complaint. For completeness I would add that I 
consider the £25 offered for delays is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman