DRN-4009114
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC denied his account application when he gave his
correct country of birth but approved a later application when he said he was born in the UK.
What happened
Mr N applied to Metro for a new account, but his application was rejected. Mr N then
submitted a second application, which had same details as the first application except for his
country of birth, which he changed from his true country of birth to the UK. This second
application was accepted by Metro. Mr N wasnt happy about this and felt that Metro had
discriminated against him on the basis of his country of birth. So, he raised a complaint.
Metro looked at Mr Ns complaint. They explained that they sometimes required additional
documents when an applicant declared that they were born overseas, as Mr N was, but that
their online application systems unfortunately werent set up to recognise all instances of
this, and that it was this system flaw that led to Mr Ns first application not being approved.
Metro apologised to Mr N for what happened and confirmed what additional information they
would need from him, given that he was in fact born overseas as he declared in his first
application. Metro also made a payment of £50 to Mr N as compensation for any upset or
inconvenience the lack of functionality of their systems may have caused. Mr N wasnt
satisfied with Metros response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Metro had issued to
Mr N already represented a fair and reasonable outcome to what had happened. Mr N
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 March 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit 
here to declare that Metro have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into 
consideration.
In this instance, I can understand why Mr N would feel that Metro have discriminated 
against him on the basis of the country of his birth. But having looked at all the 
evidence, I dont think Metro has treated Mr N unfairly here  in short, because I feel 
the explanation Metro have provided regarding the lack of functionality of their 
systems is reasonable  although I do feel that Metro havent grasped how its actions 
have made Mr N feel. Because of this, Im going to provisionally instruct Metro to pay 
further compensation to Mr N to remedy this.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr N has asked whether it should be 
considered fair that a person born in one country should be subject to more stringent 
account opening criteria than a person born in another country. This is a broad 
question which its outside the remit of this service to answer. But Mr Ns question 
can be rephrased to sit within the remit of this service as follows: Is it fair that Metro 
should subject a person born in one country to more stringent account opening 
requirements than a person born in another country?
While no conclusions or assertions can or should be drawn about a person on the 
basis they were born overseas, I ultimately do feel that its fair and reasonable for 
Metro to apply enhanced application criteria to individuals that were born overseas, if 
they feel the need to do so. Consequently, I dont feel that Metro have acted in an 
unreasonable manner by requiring the further documents from Mr N as they do here.
However, while Im satisfied that Metro havent acted unfairly by requiring further 
documents from Mr N, I dont feel that due account has been taken by Metro of the 
upset and distress that Mr N has incurred here because of the lack of functionality of 
their systems and the upsetting conclusions that Mr N has unfortunately but 
understandably drawn as a result.
Because of the emotional impact that the inadequacy of Metros system has caused 
for Mr N here, Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Ns favour and 
instructing Metro to pay a further £100 compensation to him, so that the total 
compensation amount is increased to £150, which I feel provides a fairer level of 
compensation to Mr N for the trouble and upset hes incurred.
Mr N expressed his dissatisfaction with my provisional decision and reiterated that Metro 
didnt require further documents from him when he input his country of birth correctly, but 
instead declined his application. 
I can appreciate Mr Ns strength of feeling here, but as explained above, Im satisfied that 
the reason the application was declined was because of the flaw with Metros system which 
meant it wasnt recognised by Metros system that further documents needed to be 
requested from Mr N. 
Mr N notes that Metro have said that theyve raised this procedural flaw with their system 
developers and has asked for proof of this, in the form of copies of the discussions between 
Metro and their developers. But I wouldnt consider instructing Metro to provide copies of 
such conversations as Mr N would like here. This is because any such conversations are 
private between Metro and their developers. And Im satisfied that Mr Ns complaint here 
doesnt provide any fair and compelling reason for Mr N to see such non-public information.
Finally, Mr N has raised several points that fall outside the remit of what this service can 
consider and is unhappy with responses provided by our investigator to questions he asked 
during the investigators review.
I can only refer Mr N back to the remit of this service as I described it in my provisional 
decision. This includes that we are not a regulatory body or a Court of Law and that we can 
only consider the specific circumstances of Mr Ns own complaint and not any wider issues 
that Mr N may want us to consider. Additionally, Ive reviewed the answers provided by our investigator to Mr Ns questions and 
having done so Im satisfied that Mr Ns questions largely fall outside the remit of what this 
service can consider  as described above. I can therefore confirm that I would have 
provided answers to Mr Ns questions similar to those provided by our investigator. 
All of which means that my position on this complaint, as explained in my provisional 
decision, remains unchanged. I therefore see no reason not to issue a final decision 
upholding this complaint in Mr Ns favour on the same limited basis as described above. And 
I confirm that my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.  
Putting things right
Metro must pay a further £100 to Mr N, so that the total compensation amount is £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman