DRN-2414731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that (Halifax) mis-sold them a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1980 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage. In 1990 (ten years later) they bought a PPI 
policy. The policy covered Mr B only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would 
have provided a monthly benefit of £300. This could have paid out for up to two years in 
some circumstances.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Mr B says he bought the PPI during a phone call. Halifax says it doesnt know how the PPI 
was sold  so its assumed it was sold face to face in a branch. This doesnt affect my ability 
to reach a fair decision, as whether it was a call or a meeting, Halifax had to follow the same 
regulations and guidelines operating at the time. 
Mr B says the PPI must have been sold aggressively if he didnt take it out when he first got 
the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B also say they didnt need the PPI as Mr B had good work 
related benefits at the time.  
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs B and Halifax when they 
were discussing the PPI. And although Halifax has provided some information about how Mr 
and Mrs Bs mortgage and PPI operated, there isnt much evidence to consider. That isnt 
surprising as the sale took place many years ago.
We do know, from the many cases weve reviewed, that Halifax normally made it clear that 
PPI was optional when it sold it alongside a mortgage. Thats the most likely point where Mr 
and Mrs B might have thought  whether this was the case or not  that they had to have the 
PPI in order to get the mortgage they wanted. But Mr and Mrs B didnt buy it then  in fact 
theyd had their mortgage for ten years by the time they started paying for the PPI. 
Mr B says Halifax must have sold the PPI aggressively although he hasnt provided any 
more information on this point. Halifax may well have suggested Mr B buy it  but that itself 
doesnt mean it was mis-sold. I havent seen anything that suggests Mr or Mrs B were led to 
believe they had to have it to keep their mortgage. 
Halifax doesnt know whether it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B or not  but if it 
did, then theres a higher threshold to meet to show it didnt mis-sell the policy. Thats 
because it would have to check if the policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances, rather than provide enough information for Mr and Mrs B to decide for 
themselves. But I dont think I need to reach a conclusion on this in order to reach a fair 
decision. I say this because, whether advised or not, I am satisfied the policy was suitable 
given Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, because:
 
- Mr B was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
- Mr B says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and would do so, in some circumstances for up to two years (not one year as 
our adjudicator said). Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs B could use any 
work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. I appreciate Mr and Mrs B 
say its unfair to expect them to prove their circumstances when Halifax doesnt have all 
the paperwork either  but on balance I think, given what theyve said and the policy 
benefits, Mr and Mrs B would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
- Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
B needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
- I dont know when Mr and Mrs B were told the cost of the policy. But it was relatively low 
cost, and I think Mr and Mrs B were aware they had to pay something for the policy. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to meet 
their total monthly mortgage repayments, nor have I seen that Mr and Mrs B queried the 
payment over the years.
Its possible that some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But, on balance, I think they chose to take out the policy and so 
appear to have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr B wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman