DRN-3945126
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle). 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle.
In mid-July 2022 Mr T complained to Oodle about the quality of the vehicle and asked to 
reject it. He raised concerns about a chip in the windscreen, an intermittent warning light, the 
automatic stop/start, the service history of the vehicle, a steering wheel issue, a brake issue, 
and a problem with the screen wash. 
Oodle arranged for an inspection of the vehicle by a third-party engineer, which took place in 
August 2022. The engineer concluded that there were no stored or current error codes on 
the vehicle, no evidence of misfire or uneven cylinder power, no excessive smoke, no 
unusual noises, no untoward features relating to steering, braking, general handling, 
transmission or general performance, no hesitation or loss of power or problems with the 
auto restart and no warning lights. The engineer also concluded the gear selection and 
power assistance was normal, the parking brake released on slope holds with no roll back, 
the screen wash and wiper operations were functioning, and the windscreen stone chip was 
repaired within MOT standards. 
The engineer said that the fuel consumption of Mr Ts vehicle was below manufacturer 
published standards, but the vehicle had no faults. They recommended a terra clean which 
should improve the fuel quality. 
Oodle sent Mr T their final response to his complaint in September 2022. They said the 
vehicle wasnt advertised as having a full service history, and the inspection concluded that 
the vehicle meets MOT standards and was fully compliant for use. They said the fuel 
economy could be heavily influenced by external factors, and they asked Mr T to provide a 
quote for the recommended clean for them to consider, but they didnt uphold Mr Ts 
complaint and said he was unable to reject the vehicle. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said he 
was experiencing issues with the vehicle rolling backwards when on a hill, intermittent 
warning lights, and he was getting an average of 24-26 miles per gallon (mpg) from the car 
when the advertised mpg was 54-55, this meant it was costing him much more in fuel than 
expected. Mr T said the gearbox lags or is labouring, the revs were too high and the sat nav 
intermittently stopped working. 
Our investigator gave her view that she wasnt persuaded there was currently a fault with the 
vehicle, and that Oodles offer to pay for the clean recommended by the engineer was fair. 
So, she didnt think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T, and 
she didnt recommend that Oodle do anything more. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said a manufacturer garage had reviewed the car after the engineer 
and found 12 faults, so the original report couldnt be relied on. Mr T said the mpg achieved 
was so far below the advertised mpg, that it couldnt simply be a result of wear or driving 
style, and he was still experiencing faults with intermittent warning light. 
Mr T provided information to show the manufacturer garage was investigating a possible 
fault and had recorded an mpg of 29 on a long run with Mr Ts car.
Our investigator said that Oodle would need an opportunity to review and comment on any 
additional inspections Mr T completed, as they hadnt considered these as part of his original 
complaint. But she remained of the view that there was currently no evidence of a fault with 
the vehicle, or that it was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said the car does around 27mpg less than advertised, which is too 
much to say its due to the age or mileage of the car or because its second hand. Mr T said 
the car also has other fault codes, and he was still experiencing intermittent issues with the 
sat nav, auto start/stop, hill start and labouring gears / revving too high. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement - so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Oodle as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £15,000. It was five years old 
and had travelled around 36,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires a used 
car like Mr T its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a new 
or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a serious 
issue sooner, is higher. 
Mr T raised concerns with a number of items on the vehicle, such as intermittent warning 
lights, problems with the automatic stop/start and problems with the hill start. The third-party 
report completed in August 2022 was unable to find a fault with the items reported by Mr T. 
Ive seen evidence of a diagnostic report completed after this inspection, where a number of 
fault codes were found. Mr T has said this is evidence that the first inspection was poor, and 
that there are faults with the car. Its not clear if the fault codes were stored or new, and they 
dont appear to have related to the issues reported by Mr T. The engineer carried out a 
number of updates that were found for various systems for the vehicle, suggesting that these 
may rectify the codes found. 
I havent seen any evidence that the fault codes found in the diagnostic report have 
continued since these updates were completed. Mr T has said he is still experiencing 
intermittent problems with the car, but I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that 
the third-party report completed in August 2022 was incorrect, and Im persuaded by its 
conclusions that no faults could be found with Mr Ts vehicle. 
If Mr T has had further inspections completed on the vehicle which evidence new or ongoing 
faults, he might wish to raise these with Oodle for them to investigate. If he remains unhappy 
with their response, he may be able to ask this service to investigate.
Mr T has said that the mpg being achieved by the vehicle is so much lower than the 
advertised mpg of 54-55, that it cant possibly be as a result of wear or the age of the 
vehicle. 
Ive seen evidence that the vehicle manufacturer has inspected Mr Ts car on a number of 
occasions but have been unable to find a fault. Ive seen no evidence of any ongoing faults 
with Mr Ts vehicle, or an explanation for the lower than advertised mpg. They have 
commented that the vehicle is achieving somewhere between 29 and 34 mpg, and they feel 
a vehicle of this age and mileage should achieve somewhere around 40 mpg. 
The advertised mpg is tested on a new car under ideal driving conditions in a set 
environment, and is designed to allow comparisons to be made, it doesnt reflect normal use. 
Actual mpg achieved can be affected by a number of factors including how the car is driven, 
how much weight the car is carrying, prevailing traffic conditions, prevailing weather 
conditions, length of trip, tyre pressure and condition, and use of things like air-conditioning 
and heaters. Its also the case that a car can become less fuel efficient over time, because of 
things like carbon build up in the engine.
Because of this, I dont think that the mpg Mr T is achieving for a car that was five
years old, and had done around 36,000 miles, is so unreasonable that Oodle 
should take any action. So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment for Mr 
T, I find that the mpg didnt make the vehicle of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr T. 
The first inspection of Mr Ts car suggested that a terra clean may improve the mpg, and 
Oodle offered to pay for this if Mr T provided them with a quote to consider. Mr T may wish 
to contact Oodle about completing this clean if he wants to go ahead with it.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman