DRN-1682030
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr S have brought this complaint in their capacity as directors of a limited 
company, which I will call E. They have complained that they didnt receive a letter from The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (referred to here as TMW) when a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage 
taken out by E completed. As a result, they missed the first payment.
For ease of reference, I will refer to Mrs C and Mr S throughout.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr S set up a limited company and applied (through a mortgage broker) in the 
companys name for a BTL mortgage from TMW. On the application form details of Es bank 
account was provided so that payments could be made by direct debit. The application was 
approved and the property purchase and mortgage were completed on 28 May 2019. 
On 10 June 2019 TMW wrote to Mrs C and Mr S confirming completion of the mortgage and 
that the first payment of £163.72 was to be collected by direct debit on 28 June 2019 and 
thereafter monthly payments of £144.68 would be taken on the 28th day of each month, from 
28 July 2019 onwards.  Mrs C and Mr S have told us that they didnt receive this letter, and 
were waiting for TMW to provide them with a detailed mortgage payment schedule before 
making a payment.
Unfortunately the first direct debit called for on 28 June 2019 was returned unpaid and TMW 
wrote to Mrs C and Mr S on 3 July 2019  at the same address the completion letter had 
been sent to  advising them of this. Mrs C and Mr S made the payment over the phone on 
8 July 2019. 
Mrs C and Mr S were unhappy about the way had TMW handled this matter. They said that 
under the Direct Debit Guarantee, TMW is responsible for notifying the payee in advance of 
the account being debited, but they didnt receive this. Mrs C and Mr S said TMW failed to 
provide confirmation that the welcome letter dated 10 June 2019 reached them before the 
date the first direct debit was called for on 28 June 2019. 
Mrs C and Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as he was satisfied TMW had sent 
notification of the date when payments would commence. He was satisfied that it was not 
the fault of TMW if the letter hadnt been delivered.
Mrs C and Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary, they maintain that the onus was on TMW to make sure 
they were aware of the date payments would begin. They are unhappy that this was done by 
post and said that there were other means available to TMW to contact them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the 
same reasons.
Although Mrs C and Mr S say the mortgage completed in June, it in fact completed on 
28 May 2019, according to information on file and the online history of the property 
purchase. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mrs C and Mr S ought reasonably to have 
been aware that theyd need to make a payment in June 2019.
The letter dated 10 June 2019 was correctly addressed to the address Mrs C and Mr S had 
given TMW. Other correspondence sent to that address appears to have been delivered. If it 
hadnt been possible to deliver the letter, Im satisfied Royal Mail would have returned it to 
TMW. Once a letter is posted, its within the control of Royal Mail, so I dont hold TMW 
responsible for the letter not being delivered.
TMW isnt obliged to send sensitive information about a customers account via email or text 
as these are not considered to be secure media. Given this, I dont consider TMW was 
obliged to do anything other than send a letter, by ordinary post. 
Ive taken note of what Mrs C and Mr S have said about the Direct Debit Guarantee. But the 
letter from TMW dated 10 June 2019 contains all the required information about the direct 
debit. Its unfortunate the first direct debit requested on 28 June 2019 was returned unpaid, 
but I dont think thats the fault of TMW. Its up to Mrs C and Mr S to manage their companys 
finances. 
TMW is obliged to provide an accurate report of the conduct of customer accounts to credit 
reference agencies. As a payment was missed, Im satisfied TMW is entitled to record this to 
accurately reflect the position.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs C and Mr S were hoping for. I appreciate that it wasnt their 
fault the letter didnt reach them  but it wasnt TMWs fault either. And, as I said above, as 
the mortgage completed on 28 May 2019, I find it was reasonable for Mrs C and Mr S to 
have realised a payment would be due in June 2019 and to ensure there were sufficient 
funds in the companys current account to make the first payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr S on 
behalf of E to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman