DRN-3861319
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Mazda Financial Services 
Contract Hire (SCF) didnt allow him to reduce the mileage allowance under his hire 
agreement. Hes also unhappy with the charges SCF applied when he handed back the car 
and the information it reported about his hire agreement to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr R acquired a car under a 36 month hire agreement with SCF in January 2018. Under the 
agreement, Mr R was required to make one advance payment of £458.40, followed by 35 
payments of £458.40. 
In October 2020, Mr R contacted SCF and said he wanted to reduce his mileage allowance. 
SCF told Mr R that he wasnt entitled to do this as he had requested this too late.
In November 2020, Mr R complained to SCF. He said when he initially took out the 
agreement, it was intended to primarily be used for work and so, he estimated he would 
need a mileage allowance of 75,000 over three years. He said as a result of the government 
imposed restrictions following Covid-19, he had been unable to travel for work since     
March 2020 and in October 2020, he was made redundant from his job. He said he had the 
funds to support his ongoing finance commitments. 
Mr R said he had only travelled 45,000 miles in the car and so, he had overpaid towards his 
agreement by around 30,000 miles. Mr R estimated that this mileage was worth between 
£900 and £1,080. Mr R said SCF was taking advantage of the impact of Covid-19 at his 
expense and not treating him fairly. He said he had made a decision to suspend his two 
remaining Direct Debit payments in the anticipation that SCF would do the right thing.
SCF issued its response to Mr Rs complaint in January 2021. SCF said mileage 
amendments werent offered as part of the contract and so, it wasnt obliged to amend       
Mr Rs contract. It said it recognised that circumstances could change, so it did provide the 
option for a mileage amendment, provided a request was not made within three months of 
the contract starting or ending. It said because Mr R contacted it within three months of the 
end date of his contract, it couldnt make any mileage amendments to Mr Rs contract. SCF 
said Mr R would need to make the final two payments and if he was in financial difficulties, 
Mr R should contact SCF. 
In January 2021, Mr R referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint and 
said to put things right, he wanted SCF to waive the two remaining payments and 
compensate him for the distress and anxiety caused. Mr R also contacted SCF and asked it 
to place his account on hold whilst this service considered his complaint. SCF agreed.
In February 2021, SCFs agent, who Ill refer to as B, collected the car from Mr R. B noted 
four services were missing and identified damage in six areas that it considered to be 
outside fair wear and tear. These charges totalled £895. Bs report noted that Mr R didnt 
agree with the report.
Mr R complained to SCF and said he wanted to dispute the damage charges identified by B.
SCF issued its response to Mr R in April 2021. It said it had reviewed the service schedule 
and only three services were due whilst Mr R had the car, but B had said four services were 
due. It removed the charge for one of the outstanding services. It also removed the charge 
for the damage to the door, but said the remaining charges had been correctly charged. So it 
said Mr R owed it £710.
In April 2021, Mr R complained to SCF about negative markers being reported to his credit 
file. He said these had adversely affected his credit score. SCF apologised and confirmed it 
would remove this information. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think SCF had acted unfairly when it 
didnt allow Mr R to reduce the agreed mileage allowance under his hire agreement. She 
also said she thought most of the damage charges were applied fairly in line with the 
industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear 
and tear guidelines. However, she said SCF should remove the charge for the damage 
identified to the bonnet, as she didnt think it had been applied fairly.
SCF agreed to remove the charge. But Mr R disagreed as he didnt think SCF had treated 
him fairly. He also raised a complaint about the adverse information SCF was reporting to 
his credit file about two missed payments in November and December 2020. Mr R said as a 
result of this, two third party credit card providers reduced his credit card limits. Mr R said he 
wanted SCF to pay him £1,500 in compensation. 
Our investigator also considered this complaint and said SCF had accurately reported the 
missed payments to Mr Rs credit file. And so, she didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Mr R disagreed and said SCF told him his account would be put on hold. But it recorded two 
missed payments and then reversed these. He also said that he initially told SCF about the 
change in his mileage requirements in October 2020. He says this was outside the three 
months prior to the end of the agreement. Mr R said he wanted SCF to remove the 
outstanding amounts owing and said if it wouldnt do this, he would make a full and final 
settlement offer of £500. 
Mr R also provided some information from a third party lender to show he had been declined 
lending. He also provided emails from SCF to say it would remove any adverse information 
whilst his complaint was being considered by this service.
Our investigator considered this information. She said the application made to the third party 
lender was made after the SCF account had been settled and didnt provide any reason to 
confirm why the application was declined. Our investigator said even if SCF had reported 
that Mr R had missed payments in November and December 2020, it wouldnt have acted 
unfairly because Mr R didnt make these payments on time. So, she thought SCF had acted 
fairly.
Mr R disagreed and said that SCF had agreed not to report any information to his credit file 
and so when it did, it caused him stress and anxiety. He said a third party credit card 
provider had reduced his credit limit and it could be strongly suggested this was as a result 
of adverse credit information reported to his credit file. Mr R reiterated that he spoke to SCF 
in October 2020 and asked if he could amend his mileage. 
As Mr R remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Since then, SCF has considered Mr Rs offer to pay it £500 in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. However SCF has declined this offer. It has said it will accept a payment of 
£1,200 in full and final settlement of Mr Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr R has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of our service allow me to do this.
What I need to decide in this case is whether SCF acted fairly when Mr R told it he wanted to 
reduce the mileage allowance on his agreement, whether SCF fairly applied damage 
charges and whether SCF accurately reported information to the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) about Mr Rs agreement. If I think SCF acted unfairly, Ill need to think about 
whats fair to put things right. 
Mileage adjustment
Mr Rs agreement sets out that he was entitled to travel 25,000 miles per year in the car. The 
terms and conditions state that should Mr R exceed the agreed mileage, extra charges 
would be payable. But there are no provisions within the agreement that allow Mr R to 
reduce the permitted mileage. Theres also nothing to say there would be a reduction in 
payments if the vehicle is returned with lesser mileage than anticipated. 
Having said this, SCF has said that it has a policy which allows its customers to reduce its 
mileage allowance. However one of the requirements to be eligible for a mileage allowance 
reduction is that a customer cannot be within the first or last three months of the agreement 
when making the request. 
Mr R contacted SCF in October 2020. This was more than three months before the 
agreement was set to mature. However, Mr R had made one payment in advance towards 
his agreement. And so, at the time Mr R contacted SCF in October 2020, only two payments 
remained owing under the agreement, as Mr Rs payment date fell on the 1st day of each 
month. So, I dont think SCF acted unfairly when it told Mr R it couldnt process the mileage 
reduction, as he had made the request too late. In any event, SCF wasnt obliged to offer 
any type of mileage amendment to Mr R. 
Mr R said he didnt cover as much mileage as anticipated due to the impact of Covid-19. At 
the time Mr R entered into the agreement, he anticipated hed need an annual mileage 
allowance of 25,000 due to the nature of his work. However, Mr Rs circumstances changed 
due to the outbreak of Covid-19. 
I need to take into account that Covid-19 was unforeseen and not something SCF could 
prevent. The Government lockdown and restrictions were also outside of SCFs control. In 
addition, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance in April and July 2020 for 
lenders to apply to customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of    
Covid-19. The guidance didnt place an obligation upon lenders to make any adjustments to 
mileage allowances under car finance agreements and neither did it require that lenders had 
to offer refunds where a mileage allowance wasnt used as a result of Covid-19.
So, overall I cant say SCF acted outside of the agreement in not offering Mr R the chance to 
reduce the mileage. Nor can I say that SCF is required under the terms of the agreement to 
compensate Mr R for driving less than the maximum allowed mileage.  
Damage charges
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. SCF is a member of the BVRLA.
SCF agreed to remove one of the damage charges and removed a charge for one of the 
missing services. It also agreed to remove a further damage charge after our investigator 
explained she didnt think the charge was applied fairly. Because SCF are no longer 
pursuing Mr R for these two damage charges and the charge for one of the missing services, 
I wont consider these as part of this decision. Instead, Ill focus on the remaining four 
damage charges and the three missing service charges applied.
In relation to alloys, BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable. 
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels. 
Ive looked at the photographs provided for all four of the alloys where damage was 
identified by B. Whilst it hasnt been measured with a ruler, the photographs provided show 
damage and scuffing in excess of 50mm and some damage to the wheel spokes. In light of 
this, Im satisfied SCF is entitled to charge Mr R for the damage to all four alloys as it falls 
outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to services, BVRLA guidance says: 
The vehicle must have been serviced and looked after according to the manufacturers 
servicing/maintenance schedule.
In this case, a service was due every year or every 12,500 miles, whichever came first. The 
first service was completed around eight months after it was due and the second service 
was completed around seven months after it was due. Mr R hasnt provided any supporting 
information to suggest that the third service was carried out. And so, the car wasnt serviced 
according to the manufacturers servicing schedule. In light of this, Im satisfied SCF is 
entitled to charge Mr R for the three services.
Reporting to CRAs
Mr R is unhappy that SCF reported adverse information to his credit file. He says as a result 
of this, other third party lenders refused to provide lending to him and one lender reduced a 
credit limit on his credit card.
From the information provided to me, SCF reported adverse information to CRAs about     
Mr Rs agreement between December 2020 and May 2021. Mr R accepts he hasnt paid the 
rentals owed under the agreement for November and December 2020. This means SCF is 
entitled to report to CRAs that Mr R missed payments in November and December 2020, as 
it is obliged to report factually correct information to the CRAs about Mr Rs agreement.
However, Mr R says SCF agreed to hold off reporting adverse information to the CRAs 
whilst this service considered his complaint. Ive considered this carefully and looked at the 
correspondence between Mr R and SCF. 
I can see that in January 2021, Mr R wrote to SCF and let it know he had referred his 
complaint to this service. Mr R also said, As such, I would welcome your acknowledgement 
that my account will be placed on hold until the resolution of the case. SCF responded in 
February 2021 and said it had noted Mr Rs referral to this service. It also said it, should 
not get in touch regarding the outstanding balance relating to the rentals. 
Having reviewed this carefully, whilst I accept Mr R thought SCF would stop reporting to 
CRAs when he asked SCF to place his account on hold, SCFs response to Mr R doesnt 
confirm it will stop reporting information to the CRAs. Instead it says it wont be in touch about the outstanding balance. And so, I dont think SCF led Mr R to believe it would stop 
reporting information to CRAs about his account whilst this service considered his 
complaint. So I dont think it acted unfairly.
When Mr R contacted SCF in April 2021 to say his credit file was reporting adverse 
information, SCF apologised and arranged for the CRAs to remove the adverse information. 
Its important to note that SCF wasnt obliged to remove any adverse information from Mr Rs 
credit file whilst his complaint was being considered by this service. But SCF has confirmed 
it removed the adverse information as a gesture of goodwill. SCF hasnt reported any further 
adverse information to the CRAs since the account was closed. 
Overall, I dont think SCF has acted unfairly or unreasonably and so, it follows that I dont 
think it needs to do anything to put things right. Ill leave it to Mr R to contact SCF if he 
accepts its offer to pay SCF £1,200 in full and final settlement of his complaint. Ill also take 
this opportunity to remind SCF of its obligation to treat Mr R with forbearance and due 
consideration if he is currently in financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman