DRN-3181393
The complaint
Mr S complains about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited (Cabot)s actions when contacting him about a debt. 
What happened
In January 2020 Cabot bought an overdraft debt in Mr S name. In February 2020 the 
original lender (H) and Cabot sent Mr S a Notice of Assignment to confirm the new 
arrangements. Mr S has told us the original debt came about after his current account and 
overdraft were closed and a default reported on his credit file in 2009. Mr S has explained he 
made payments to the debt to another debt collector that was acting on Hs behalf but 
stopped after it was unable to send documents hed requested. 
Mr S asked Cabot to send him various documents including the original credit agreement, up 
to date statements showing his payments to H and its agents as well as default letters from 
2009.
Cabot sent Mr S a copy of terms and conditions it says were applicable to his overdraft. 
Cabot also sent Mr S a copy of the associated bank statements from 2009, before the 
account was closed, and a transaction history showing payments he made until 2019. 
Mr S has complained about Cabots actions when trying to recover the debt. Mr S says hes 
been harassed by Cabot and that its unfairly threatened legal action. Mr S also complains 
that Cabot hasnt sent him a copy of the original credit agreement from the 1990s and that 
some text messages he received contained documents that didnt work. 
Cabot sent Mr S a final response and said it had sent the documents hed requested. Cabot 
didnt agree it had harassed Mr S or treated him unfairly when making contact about the 
debt. But Cabot said it had failed to respond to Mr S requests in good time and offered him 
£100 to apologise. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator forwarded documents provided by Cabot to Mr S. They thought Cabot had dealt 
with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal and 
said he hadnt received a copy of the original credit agreement and didnt believe Cabot had 
sent its final response as claimed. Mr S also said he hadnt received letters that should also 
have been forwarded by text message. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Cabot has confirmed it cant send Mr S a copy of the original credit agreement he accepted 
in the 1990s. But Cabot has sent across the applicable terms and conditions that were in 
place around the time Mr S account was closed and defaulted. The terms and conditions 
contain Mr S account number and sort code. Mr S has pointed out theres no other 
identifying information and I agree. But I think its reasonable to say that H wouldve had 
terms and conditions governing how Mr S account would operate and Im satisfied weve 
been sent the relevant copy. 
I understand Mr S wants the original signed credit agreement but Im satisfied that despite 
requesting it from H, Cabots been unable to obtain it. Whilst I understand why Mr S wants to 
see the original credit agreement, I think theres other information available that shows the 
debt belongs to him. I note weve been sent bank statements from before the default date in 
2009 along with a transaction history of payments Mr S made to H and its agents after the 
account was closed and defaulted. Ive also reviewed the Notice of Assignment letters sent 
by both H and Cabot to Mr S. They confirm the debt with H was being sold to Cabot which 
would contact Mr S about the outstanding balance. 
So whilst we dont have a copy of the original credit agreement, Im satisfied the other 
information available shows Cabot could fairly contact Mr S about the outstanding balance 
and ask for repayment. 
Mr S has told us he feels Cabot has harassed him. Whilst I can see Cabot has contacted Mr 
S to ask for repayment on a number of occasions, including by phone and letter, I havent 
found its treated him unfairly. As Ive said above, Im satisfied Cabot did acquire a debt in Mr 
S name, so it does have a legitimate reason to get in touch with him. I can see Cabot has 
told Mr S it was considering legal action. Cabot has confirmed planned legal action was 
stopped after Mr S raised enquires and Im satisfied thats the case. Ive reviewed all the 
available correspondence and contact information and I dont agree Cabot has treated Mr S 
unfairly or harassed him. 
Mr S says Cabot failed to send him various letters, including its final response to his 
complaint. In addition, Mr S says he received text messages with corrupted files and that a 
letter he sent to Cabot was returned. Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed 
by the parties involved Ill base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I 
consider most likely to have happened based on all the available information. 
All parties agree that Mr S letter wasnt delivered to Cabot. Cabot says it cant say why that 
is as it doesnt control the post. Theres little we can add to what Cabots already said. Its 
not clear why Mr S letter wasnt delivered but Im satisfied it wasnt received as claimed. Ive 
looked at all the correspondence Cabot says its sent Mr S. I can see theyre all correctly 
addressed, in line with the details provided to this service. On balance, I think its more likely 
than not that Cabot did write to Mr S as it claims. 
I understand Mr S had some difficulties with letters that were sent to him via text message as 
well as in the post. I dont doubt what Mr S has said but Cabot also sent correspondence in 
the post. All letters Ive seen are correctly addressed and Im satisfied Cabot did write to 
Mr S with important information about his debt, in line with what its said. Cabot has apologised for errors and delays when responding to Mr S requests for 
information and offered him £100. Im satisfied that £100 fairly reflects the impact of the 
delay and service Mr S received. As Cabot has already made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase its offer or take any further 
action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint because Cabot has already made an offer 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman