DRN-4209152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined a claim they made under their 
home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs B are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Mr B, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr B arranged for his roof to be repaired after he discovered water 
leaking through his ceiling. He says he didnt claim on his insurance at the time as he didnt 
think it would cause any long term damage. However, the ceiling later began to crack, so   
Mr B contacted QIC to make a claim in January 2023. 
QIC declined Mr Bs claim and maintained its position after he raised a complaint. It said that 
the weather conditions on the date the damage initially occurred didnt meet the policys 
definition of a storm. Furthermore, QICs surveyor wasnt able to validate the claim because 
Mr Bs roof had already been repaired when he visited and there was no photographic 
evidence of the damage. QIC also said that further damage had been caused to Mr Bs 
property due to a delay in him reporting the incident. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
thought his complaint should be upheld. She was persuaded that the damage was caused 
by a storm in November 2022. She thought QIC should settle Mr Bs claim in line with the 
policys remaining terms and conditions, including considering payments hed already made 
for repairs. 
QIC disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said Mr B had prejudiced its position by 
undertaking repairs to the damage before it had the opportunity to assess it. Mr B also didnt 
take photographs of the damage prior to the repairs. QIC said that as the surveyor was 
unable to validate the claim on his visit, it wasnt able to establish if the damage was 
consistent with storm damage. It couldnt consider the internal damage without being able to 
validate the external damage. QIC also referred to a condition in its policy that it said Mr B 
had breached. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. Mr B says the damage to his property was caused by a storm, 
which is one of the events listed in his policy as being covered. 
The policy terms define storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
a. a gale Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort 
Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph; or
b. torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c. snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d.hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
QIC says there wasnt a storm at the time that Mr B says the damage occurred. Its provided 
a screenshot of a weather report showing a maximum gust of 48 mph on the date Mr B has 
given. However, weve checked another weather report which records the peak gust in       
Mr Bs area as 59 mph. So, I think there was likely to have been a storm around the time of 
damage.
QIC says it wasnt able to determine if the damage to Mr Bs roof was consistent with storm 
damage because repairs had already been carried out prior to the surveyors visit. Its also 
commented that there are no photographs of the damage prior to repairs.
Mr B has provided a report from the roofer who carried out the repairs in November 2022. 
According to this, Mr B contacted the roofer on the date of the storm, and he attended the 
property a week later. The roofer says he wasnt able to attend sooner because of the 
volume of leaks reported during the storm. 
The roof report says:
On inspection, it was found that the lead raggles and flashings had been damaged during 
this storm, the cement raggle was hit with severe and continuous rain for 3  4 days.
QICs surveyors report (from January 2023) says: the roofers description of the works 
states that the flashing failed this would be seen as a maintenance issue & not storm 
damage.
However, the roof report says that Mr and Mrs B had a maintenance plan in place, which 
means a full inspection was carried out twice per year to maintain the roof and guttering 
systems on the property. It says the areas damaged in the storm were in good condition at 
the time of the roofers last visit.
Im persuaded by the report from the roofer that Mr Bs roof was well-maintained. So, I dont 
think the damage was likely to be as a result of a maintenance issue. Given that there was a 
storm in the area at the time, I think this was likely to have been the proximate cause of the 
damage to the roof.
Mr B has also provided a quote for repairs to his ceiling (dated January 2023) which says:
Due to a leak caused by storm damage, the plaster has absorbed the water. The excess 
weight over time has caused the plaster to eventually separate from the lath.Mr B made the claim around six weeks after the storm damage to his roof. So, I think the 
internal damage to his ceiling was likely to have been caused by water ingress as a result of 
the storm damage.
QIC has also referred to a condition in the policy which says:
You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further loss or 
damage, but do not carry out any permanent repairs without first getting our written 
permission.
It says Mr B has breached this condition and it can refuse to pay a claim if this condition is 
not met.
The reason for declining the claim on the surveyors report was: No insurable peril 
identified. No storms on or around the reported incident date.
Given the above, I think its likely QIC would still have declined Mr Bs claim if he had made it 
prior to the repairs being carried out. So, I dont think Mr Bs decision to get the roof repaired 
without QICs permission is likely to have had an impact on the claim.
Mr B says he didnt intend to make a claim when he arranged for the roof to be repaired. He 
says he didnt know he would have the issue of internal damage to his ceiling at that time. I 
acknowledge what QIC has said about further damage being caused because of a delay in 
Mr B reporting the incident. However, if Mr B had reported the incident in November 2022, I 
think QIC would likely have declined his claim on the basis that there wasnt a storm. Mr B 
would then have needed to arrange for his roof to be repaired and this would likely have 
been completed by the same roofer. So, I think the position regarding the damage to the 
ceiling would likely have been the same. 
Ive explained why I think the damage to Mr Bs roof and his ceiling was likely to have been 
caused by a storm, which is an event listed in his policy as being covered. Ive also 
explained why I dont think it would be fair for QIC to decline Mr Bs claim because he 
breached the policy condition to not carry out permanent repairs without getting QICs 
permission. 
QIC hasnt given any other reasons why it shouldnt follow our investigators 
recommendation to settle Mr Bs claim. So, I think it should accept the claim and settle it in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should take the payments Mr B 
has already made for repairs into consideration when doing so.
Mr B has questioned whether QIC will cover the cost of painting the ceiling and replacing the 
carpet that the ceiling fell on to. QIC should consider whether or not these costs are covered 
as part of the settlement of the claim. If Mr B is unhappy with QICs settlement of the claim, 
he could bring a new complaint to our service.
Putting things right
QIC should:
Accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim and settle it in line with the policys terms and conditions.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman