DRN-2016119
The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and then closed her account.
What happened
Miss R had opened a current account with Monzo in August 2019. Between late November 
2019 and early December 2019, a number of payments of just under £8,500 were received 
into the account from a third party. All the money was spent on high value goods at a sports 
retailer. And a number of transactions were refunded.
Monzo took the view that it needed to look into how Miss R was operating her account and 
blocked her account while it did that.
Miss R contacted Monzo to discuss what had happened with her account and to try and 
remove the block. She gave Monzo screenshots of he goods she said shed bought from the 
retailer. Monzo wasnt satisfied with Miss Rs explanation. So, it didnt lift the block on her 
account and gave her notice that it would close her account immediately. It returned Miss 
Rs closing balance to her.
Miss R referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator said Monzo had treated Miss R unfairly when it had closed her 
account immediately. And said the bank should have given her at least 60 days notice. 
So, he said Monzo should pay Miss R £100 for the inconvenience this caused her. Miss R 
agreed. Monzo didnt. It said it had closed the account in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. And asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My Provisional Decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 July 
2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ill deal first with Monzos decision to restrict Miss Rs access to her account while it 
investigated its concerns about how Miss R was operating her account. I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for the bank to act in the way it did. Monzo has explained that this was 
standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Its also in line with what most banks would do 
in the same situation. Monzo also wasnt obliged to tell Miss R why it was carrying out a 
review. 
I then turn to the banks decision to withdraw banking facilities from Miss R. Its generally for 
banks to decide whether they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to 
any particular customer. Unless theres a very god reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. 
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case Monzo closed Miss Rs account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence and how Miss R was 
operating her account, in my view that was reasonable.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that Monzo havent treated Miss R unfairly and 
closed her account in line with the terms and conditions. Ive also kept in mind that Miss R 
had at least two other accounts with other banks, so the immediate impact on her would 
have ben reduced. 
I appreciate of course that the banks actions caused Miss R inconvenience However, it 
wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe 
Monzo acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did when it blocked and closed Miss Rs 
account. So, I dont intend to ask Monzo to do anything further to resolve Miss Rs complaint.
Monzo accepted my provisional decision. Miss R didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss R and Monzo havent offered any more comments or evidence, Im not persuaded 
that I should change my provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant say Monzo have acted unreasonably and treated Miss R unfairly when it 
blocked and closed her account. So, Im not going to ask Monzo to do anything further to 
resolve Miss Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman