DRN-3781783
The complaint
Mr M complains about QIC Europe Limited and the amount hes been paid in settlement of 
his insurance claim.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr M purchased a home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC. Unfortunately, 
on 22 July, Mr Ms home was broken into. And his patio doors glass was smashed when the 
intruders attempted to gain access. So, the following day, Mr M called QIC to make a claim 
on his policy for the necessary repairs to his patio door.
On the same day, due to the worry and concern Mr M and his wife felt, they found a local 
contractor, who Ill refer to as X, to repair the patio door as they wanted to ensure their 
property was secure. Mr M paid Xs fee and forwarded the invoice onto QIC for 
reimbursement. But QIC offered a settlement that didnt cover the full fee Mr M paid to X. Mr 
M was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think the settlement offer QIC provided was fair, as it was for substantially less 
than he paid X. Mr M explained his personal circumstances meant it was a matter of urgency 
for the patio door to be repaired and he didnt think it was reasonable for QIC to expect him 
to wait a certain amount of time for a full permanent repair to be completed. So, Mr M 
thought QIC should reimburse him the full amount he paid X.
QIC responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly and in line with the terms 
of the policy when calculating and offering Mr M the cash settlement. So, while they 
sympathised with Mr Ms circumstances, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They noted that Mr M 
instructed X to complete a permanent repair before QIC were given the opportunity to 
arrange for a repair through their own contractor. So, they thought QIC were fair to offer Mr 
M a cash settlement that fell in line with the terms of the policy he held. And they were 
satisfied the cash settlement Mr M was offered fell in line with these. So, while our 
investigator recognised Mr Ms situation, and the fact Xs invoice was significantly higher 
than the report QIC obtained from their intended repairer, they didnt think QIC had done 
anything wrong and so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think our investigator had placed enough weight on his 
individual situation and the fact the incident happened on a weekend meaning he felt 
additional pressure to arrange for a repair to be completed as soon as possible. Mr M 
thought hed told QIC hed intended to arrange for a permanent repair to be completed and 
that he was told this cost would be reimbursed.
Our investigator considered these comments and they listened to the calls Mr M held with 
QIC. And after doing so, their view remained the same. They thought QIC made it clear that 
Mr M should complete a temporary repair to secure the property and that they would then 
arrange for a permanent repair to be completed. And our investigator didnt think Mr M had 
followed this advice, removing QICs chance to complete a permanent repair using their own 
contractor. So, they didnt think they could say QIC should cover Xs costs. Mr M continued 
to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate Mr M was 
victim to a crime that would no doubt have impacted his ability to feel safe and secure in the 
home him and his wife share. And because of this, and Mr Ms own personal situation, I can 
understand why Mr M felt as though it was necessary to ensure a permanent repair was 
completed as soon as possible. And this is something Ive considered at length when 
reaching my decision.
But for me to say QIC should cover Xs entire invoice, Id need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong when putting their lower settlement offer to Mr M. So, Id need to be 
satisfied that they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M held 
when putting this offer forward. Or, if I think they did work within these, that it was unfair of 
them to do so for some other reason. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M held, which explains that when settling 
the claim, they will ask a customer to choose one of the following options:
We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out the 
rebuilding work, repairs or replacements; or
We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it wouldve cost us to use our 
preferred contractor
In this situation, Mr M proceeded to instruct X to complete the permanent repair, before QIC 
had the chance to instruct their preferred contractor. So, this option was no longer available 
to QIC and because of this, I think they acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy 
when proceeding to offer Mr M a cash settlement.
And the terms above explain clearly that the cash settlement would be for the same amount 
as it wouldve cost them to use their preferred contractor. Ive seen a report from QICs 
preferred contractor, which estimated their total cost of securing and repairing the damage to 
be £442.55 + VAT. And I can see the cash settlement QIC put to Mr M is for this amount, 
less the excess applicable to his policy. So, because of the above, Im satisfied QIC acted in 
line with the terms of the policy when calculating and putting forward this settlement.
But as I explained earlier within my decision, Ive also thought about whether I think QIC 
acted fairly when relying upon these terms.
Mr M doesnt think they have. And hes explained in detail why he thinks his individual 
circumstances meant it was unfair for QIC to expect him and his wife to complete only a 
temporary repair. And I want to reassure Mr M Ive considered his situation, and his 
reasoning at length.I recognise it wouldve been a distressing time for Mr M and his wife. And I appreciate their 
safety, and so the securing of their home, wouldve been a matter of urgency to them. Ive 
watched the CCTV footage Mr M has sent and I can understand how unnerving this 
wouldve been.
But Ive also listened to the initial call between Mr M and QIC, where he initially notified them 
of his claim. And on this call, I think QIC make it reasonably clear to Mr M that he should 
complete a temporary repair, for example the boarding up of his patio door, which they 
would reimburse him for. I think QIC also made it reasonably clear to Mr M on this call that, 
although he was within his rights to obtain a quote for the permanent repair, this repair 
shouldnt be completed until theyd had chance consider the repairs themselves.
But Mr M didnt do this. While I understand Mr Ms reasons for not doing this, as he didnt 
want to wait until after the weekend to discuss the permanent repairs, I dont think this 
means QIC then have a duty to cover the full costs of X.
I recognise the amount Mr M paid X, and the costs estimated by QICs preferred contractors, 
are substantially different. But I think its reasonable for me to assume QIC wouldve been 
able to complete the temporary and permanent repairs for the total amount their preferred 
contractor quoted. And I think Mr Ms decision to proceed with permanent repairs against 
QICs advice prevented them from having this option. Because of this, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to say QIC should pay Mr M more than what they wouldve paid, had the claim 
process been followed correctly. So, while I understand Mr M has been left with a financial 
loss and the impact this has had, I dont think this is because of something QIC has done 
wrong. And so, it follows that I dont think QIC need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman