DRN-3345514
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has 
turned down a claim it made on a corporate personal accident and business travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Bs corporate annual personal accident and business travel insurance policy ran from 22 
May 2020 until 21 May 2021. 
One of Bs directors was due to travel abroad between 21 and 31 December 2020. In line 
with mandatory government regulations, Bs director and his travelling companion underwent 
Covid-19 PCR testing at a total cost of £380, shortly before they were due to travel, to 
ensure they were fit to fly.
However, as a result of rising cases of Covid-19, the UK government placed some areas of 
the UK under new restrictions on travel and movement. These restrictions meant that Bs 
director and his companion were unable to travel as planned and so the trip had to be 
cancelled. The airline refunded the applicable flight costs. So B made a claim for the cost of 
the PCR tests.
AIG turned down Bs claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy provided cover for 
accommodation and transport costs. It didnt consider the PCR test costs to be transport 
costs  instead, it considered these to be medical costs. So it concluded these costs werent 
covered by the policy terms.
B was unhappy with AIGs decision and it asked us to look into its complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Bs complaint should be upheld. While she acknowledged that if 
Bs director hadnt undergone PCR testing and been certified as fit-to-fly, he likely wouldnt 
have been able to board his flight, she felt it was more reasonable to treat the PCR cost as a 
medical expense. She wasnt persuaded that the PCR cost directly paid for Bs directors 
transport via plane, train, boat etc. Therefore, she didnt think the PCR test cost was a 
transport cost and so she felt itd been fair for AIG to turn down the claim.
Bs director disagreed and Ive summarised his response.  While he accepted the PCR test 
was a medical test, both travelling persons had been asymptomatic and wouldnt have taken 
the tests had they not been a legal requirement to travel abroad. He felt it was disingenuous 
to say that the PCR test cost wasnt a transport cost, as without the fit-to-fly certification, one 
could not travel. He considered it had been unreasonable for AIG not to define the precise 
terms on which it would exclude claims. And he also felt that AIG shouldve added an 
addendum to the policy to exclude PCR testing costs from cover. He felt that itd been 
unreasonable for AIG not to clarify this point. He referred to a Supreme Court judgment 
made in regards to another form of insurance policy, which related to Covid-19 cover.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint B, I dont think it was unfair for AIG to turn 
down its claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Bs policy and the circumstances, to decide whether AIG treated B fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Bs contract 
with AIG. As Bs director was unable to travel due to Covid-19 restrictions, I think it was 
appropriate for AIG to consider the claim in line with the Cancellation or Curtailment section 
of the policy. This provides the following cover:
Where the Trip has to be cancelled prior to departure or cut short following departure the 
Company will pay the cost of irrecoverable deposits and advanced payments for 
transport and accommodation costs which have been paid or will be payable, or become 
payable under contract, or cannot be recovered elsewhere. (Emphasis added).
It's clear that Bs director feels strongly that the PCR testing cost should be treated as a 
transport cost. Ive thought about this carefully. As the investigator explained, AIG hasnt 
defined what it means by transport in the contract terms. In these circumstances then, Ive 
considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word as well as the context in which the 
word transport is used within the policy wording. Ive also had regard to the following 
dictionary definitions of transport and transport costs:
To take people or goods from one place to another in a vehicle
Costs of travel as a fare-paying passenger in any common carrier conveyance other than 
taxicab.
Travel expenses that refer specifically to the cost of business transportation by car, plane, 
train etc.
Ive looked closely at the PCR test receipt. This provided a medical diagnosis, following 
immunology. The costs were paid to a medical company and not the airline or travel 
provider. While I accept that Bs director couldnt have flown without providing evidence of a 
negative PCR test, the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that this was a cost which the 
airline imposed as part of its overall fare to carry Bs director to his intended destination. 
Indeed, it doesnt appear that the airline wouldve been entitled to any of Bs payment as part 
of its fare. 
Instead, I consider the evidence suggests that the fit-to-fly certificate formed part of a 
travellers overall travel documentation, which was necessary to fulfil the prevailing UK 
government travel regulations at the relevant time. In my view then, I think it was fair for AIG 
to conclude that the PCR costs were medical costs. And I also think its more likely than not 
that most people would reasonably conclude that transport costs represented the travel fare 
a policyholder had paid their travel provider, rather than a medical cost theyd paid to fulfil 
government rules.
This means that while I sympathise with Bs directors position, as I appreciate that 
ultimately, he was unable to fly or utilise the fit-to-fly certification; I find it was fair for AIG to turn down Bs claim for the PCR test costs.
Bs director has stated that he feels AIG ought to have clarified that it didnt include PCR test 
costs as a transport cost in an addendum to its policy wording. I should make it clear that 
were not the industry regulator and so I have no power to tell AIG how it must draft its 
contract terms. I would add though that I think the policy is sufficiently clear and 
unambiguous as to set out the cover AIG provides. Id add too that while Bs director has 
referred to a recent Supreme Court judgement, this does not relate to travel insurance and 
neither do I consider it is comparable to the specific facts of Bs complaint.
Overall, Im not directing AIG to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman