DRN-3379575
The complaint
Mr H Jnr, acting on behalf of his father  Mr H, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) has introduced a charge on his fathers overdraft account when he says there 
was a lifetime agreement in place not to charge for use of the overdraft. 
What happened
Mr H has held an account with Barclays for many years with an overdraft of £15k. It is not 
disputed that there was an agreement whereby Mr H would have the use of this facility fee 
free.
In January 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr H and gave notice that as a result of new government 
legislation in that the FCA had announced that all banks have to charge interest instead of a 
daily fee for using an overdraft, and that from 22 March 2020 interest will be charged for use 
of the facility.
Mr H Jnr complained to Barclays that the agreement for the fee free overdraft facility was a 
lifetime agreement and that when this matter was raised previously, he was told his father 
wouldnt be charged for the use of the facility.
Barclays agreed as a gesture of goodwill to refund interest up to July 2020 amounting to 
£304 but from that point on the interest would be chargeable as per the terms and conditions 
of the account and that it wouldnt continue to offer the historic arrangement.
Following Mr H Jnr bringing the complaint to this service Barclays made the following offer 
without any admission of liability to settle the complaint:
To refund the overdraft fees applied to Mr Hs account in August 2020 amounting to 
£90; and
Pay £400 compensation for the distress and upset caused to Mr H and his wife.
Barclays also noted that Mr Hs overdraft was repaid in August 2020 and asked if he would 
like it cancelled in order to prevent charges in the future. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought Barclays offer was a fair way to settle the 
complaint. Mr H Jnr rejected this  he says Barclays should only be able to change the terms 
and conditions in relation to its overdrafts if the original agreement allowed it and has asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr H Jnr is complaining that Barclays has decided to drop the no charge marker on his 
fathers account that was agreed a number of years ago. Before I go any further, I want to be 
clear in saying that I havent considered whether the amount Barclays is charging for its 
current accounts is fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the benefit and 
service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. Just like it is up 
to Mr H to decide whether to accept what Barclays is offering or to take his business 
elsewhere. And providing Barclays notified Mr H of the change in the pricing structure in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
While it isnt disputed that there was some sort of historic agreement in place there is no 
written evidence of the terms and conditions of this agreement or how long the arrangement 
would continue. So, because I cant say what was agreed originally all I can do is decide if 
what Barclays is offering is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And I think it is. I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to force a business to continue to supply a service 
for free. And though its not the original agreement, the current terms and conditions that 
apply to the account Mr H holds does allow Barclays to make the changes to the services it 
offers. 
Barclays has given reasonable written notice about the change in charging structure as well 
as refunding fees and allowing Mr H time to decide what he wishes to do. And it has offered 
£400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
So although I understand Mr H Jnrs frustration about the introduction of charges on his 
fathers account when they believed the arrangement in place was for life - I cant say 
Barclays has done anything wrong here and I think what it has offered is a fair way to settle 
the complaint.
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint. Mr H Jnr should get in touch with Barclays if 
he now wishes to accept its offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think what Barclays Bank UK PLC is offering is a fair way to 
settle Mr Hs complaint and Im not going to ask it to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman