DRN-3019751
The complaint
Ms H complains that BISL Limited kept the payment details for her home insurance policy to 
auto-renew her policy even though shed changed her bank card details.
What happened
Ms H had home insurance underwritten by BISL. She purchased the policy online and after 
she paid her premium in full she felt it shouldve deleted her payment details. But even 
though she later changed her bank card BISL was still able to access certain financial 
information at the renewal date.
Ms H feels this breached the data protection act and shes worried her banking details have 
been compromised. Shes also been in touch with the information commissioners office. 
BISL said that when Ms H purchased the policy online shed agreed to its terms and 
conditions. This included an automatic renewal to make sure she remained continuously 
covered. 
A continuous payment authority (CPA) was also agreed when Ms H purchased the policy. 
This allowed BISL to take payments from her card at renewal or if there was a change to the 
policy. But both the automatic renewal and CPA could be opted out of at any time by 
contacting its customer service department. BISL explained itd received an update from 
Ms Hs card provider when she changed her bank card as part of an automatic system for 
keeping payment information up to date.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with BISLs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the documentation provided to Ms H when 
she took out the policy. It said BISL may automatically renew the policy using the payment 
method provided by Ms H in order to ensure she remained continuously covered. 
Our investigator explained that auto-renewal of insurance cover isnt uncommon. And she 
didnt think BISL had done anything wrong. Itd explained the process when Ms H took out 
the policy. And Ms H could get in touch to ask BISL to stop taking payments at any time.
She could see the policy documentation also explained BISL would set up a continuous 
payment authority to take any future payments. And although Ms H had used her card to 
take out the policy, it was actually linked to her underlying bank account. As BISL had 
explained, when her card details changed the card issuer had sent an automatic update to 
BISL to provide it with the new details. 
Our investigator was sorry Ms H felt BISL hadnt treated her information properly. But she 
felt the insurer had acted correctly and within the data protection notice and terms of the 
home insurance policy. And she didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Ms H didnt agree. Shed made a one-off payment and hadnt been told BISL would hold 
onto her details. She believes BISL sought out her new debit card details without her 
authorisation or knowledge. And shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Ms H has been experiencing. Its important to take 
sensible precautions to protect banking information. And its clearly been a very worrying 
time for her. So Ive looked very carefully at everything Ms H and BISL have said.
Protecting personal information means theres a difficult balance for customers and 
businesses to maintain. Some customers prefer to make one-off payments and keep their 
own records when annual policies need renewing. Other customers prefer the certainty of 
knowing their insurer will automatically renew their policy each year using the bank details it 
has on record unless they decide otherwise. So its not unusual for a certain amount of 
financial information to be retained by organisations so that the customer isnt 
disadvantaged. 
Because of this, insurance companies normally operate a policy of auto-renewal. This is to 
ensure the customers insurance remains in place at the renewal date and they arent left 
without cover at any stage. This might be important, for example, where a customer had 
intended to look at their insurance requirements for the new year but for some reason were 
now unable to do so. Automatic renewal would protect the customer by keeping cover in 
place until they were able to review matters.
As part of the automatic renewal process BISL was required to contact Ms H before the 
renewal date to explain the terms and cost of the new years cover. Ms H would then have 
the opportunity to look elsewhere or to allow the cover to continue.
Ive looked at the original policy documentation and the renewal documentation sent to 
Ms H. They refer to the continuous payment authority set up so that BISL can take 
payments when they are due. This means it retained a certain amount of information in 
relation to Ms Hs bank account. If it didnt do so, BISL wouldnt be able to provide 
continuous cover. And this is whats concerned Ms H  especially as her insurer also knew 
her bank card details had changed.
When Ms H accepted the insurance cover she agreed to its terms and conditions. And that 
included the automatic renewal and continuous payment authority. The documentation 
provides information about both processes. And it states Ms H could cancel the CPA and 
automatic renewal if she wanted. 
As Ive explained above, that would put the onus on Ms H to make sure she paid for new 
insurance cover at the correct time each year. If, for any reason, that wasnt possible Ms Hs 
insurance cover would cease. And any claims wouldnt be met. Thats why many insurance 
companies include automatic renewal and a continuous payment authority as part of the 
agreement made with customers when they take out the insurance policy.
I think BISLs policy documentation clearly explained how the insurance policy would be paid 
for. It included details of the auto-renewal and continuous payment authority that meant it 
would have to retain Ms Hs bank details so ongoing cover could remain in place. And Ive 
not seen anything to indicate Ms H asked to opt out of either process.
I know Ms H is particularly upset that BISL was able to obtain details of her new bank card. 
BISL has explained it received an update from Ms Hs card provider when she received her new card. This is because of a system put in place by her card issuer to protect customers 
ongoing payments so they dont fail when card details have changed. 
The major card issuers have systems to update merchants (such as BISL) when card 
information changes. This is intended to reduce the number of declined transactions and 
cardholder inconvenience. Its part of the terms and conditions issued by the card issuer to 
the cardholder. And while I understand the upset and worry this has caused Ms H, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest BISL has acted incorrectly or outside of the terms and conditions 
of the home insurance policy.
I can see BISL has paid Ms H £25 compensation for her trouble and upset. Ms H feels this 
confirms her concerns about BISLs actions. But BISL has explained the payment is by way 
of apology for the difficulties Ms H experienced while trying to get in touch about her policy. 
I know Ms H will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen I cant 
really say BISL has done anything wrong. It explained the policy of automatic renewal and 
continuous payment authority in the terms Ms H agreed to when she took out the home 
insurance policy. And she had the option of cancelling both processes if she wished. 
I understand Ms Hs worries about her financial details being retained and updated. Ms H felt 
shed made a one-off payment. She didnt expect her insurer to retain her payment details. 
And she was shocked to discover itd been informed about the details of her new card. But 
the update to her card details came from the card issuer as part of an automatic process to 
protect its customers ongoing payment commitments. 
I do recognise the worry this caused to Ms H. And I hope Ive explained why Ive reached 
this decision. But based on everything Ive seen I cant say BISL has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman