DRN-4085525
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has turned down an incapacity claim 
he made on an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties and so Im not going to 
repeat it in detail here. Instead, Ive set out what I think are the key events.
Mr F is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provided Mr F with cover for his own occupation and included a deferred period of six 
months.
In September 2020, Mr F suffered a myocardial infarction (MI) and underwent surgery. He 
was signed-off from work until January 2021, at which point, his GP recommended that he 
commence a phased-return to work. However, it appears that this phased-return broke down 
and Mr F was signed-off again in early March 2021.
Mr Fs employer made a claim on the policy in June 2021. Ultimately, Aviva declined the 
claim. It said its Chief Medical Office (CMO) felt that Mr F wouldve been fit to start a three- 
month phased return to work in January 2021, ending in April 2021. But Aviva felt the 
evidence indicated that the phased-return had broken down due to a dispute between Mr F 
and his employer.
Unhappy with Avivas decision, Mr F complained. Aviva requested further medical evidence 
from Mr Fs GP and reviewed the claim again. It noted that Mr F had been entitled to sick 
pay from his employer until 14 October 2021, so it said no benefit wouldve been payable 
until after that date in any event.
Having reassessed the claim based on evidence post October 2021, Aviva declined it. While 
a consultant occupational physician had assessed Mr F as being unfit for work in any 
capacity, Aviva didnt think this conclusion was supported by Mr Fs medical records. These 
showed that at points, Mr Fs fit notes included work-related stress as one of the reasons for 
his absence from work. This was specifically excluded by the policy terms. The medical 
records showed that while Mr F had continued to experience symptoms, no cardiac cause 
nor indeed any cause at all had been found for them. It wasnt persuaded that Mr F was 
incapacitated in line with the contractual definition and therefore, it concluded that Mr Fs 
claim didnt meet the policy terms.
Aviva did tell Mr F that it would be happy to support him with a phased-return to work for a 
three-month period and that it would be prepared to pay partial benefit during this time. It 
said that if a phased-return took longer than this period, it would consider extending the 
payment of benefit following further medical review.
Mr F remained unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She considered that Mr F 
hadnt provided enough medical evidence to show that hed been incapacitated in line with 
the policy terms. So she felt itd been fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Fs claim.
Mr F disagreed. He provided evidence to show that hed undergone assessment by the 
Department for Work & Pensions (DWP) in November 2021 and had been awarded 
Employment Support Allowance (ESA). This award had been backdated to August 2021. Mr 
F had been placed in the ESA support group category.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
planned to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I said:
First, Id like to reassure both parties that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint; the extensive medical evidence and their submissions to us, Ive carefully 
considered all thats been said and sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent 
commented on each point thats been raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the insurance contract and the available medical evidence, to decide whether 
Aviva has treated Mr F fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the insurance policy, as these form the basis 
of the group contract with Aviva. Mr Fs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Aviva to 
consider whether Mr Fs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look 
Avivas definition of incapacity. This says:
The member's inability to perform on a full and part time basis the duties of his or her job 
role as a result of their illness or injury.
This means that in order for Aviva to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that a 
policyholders illness or injury results in their inability to perform their job role on a full and 
part time basis.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Fs responsibility to provide Aviva with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties 
of his job role on a full and part time basis.
Aviva assessed the evidence Mr F provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he met the policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the 
available medical evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Aviva to 
draw. 
Its important that I make clear that Im not a medical expert. Therefore, my provisional 
conclusions are based on an assessment of the medical evidence which has been provided 
to me.
Did Aviva handle the claim fairly pre-14 October 2021? 
The terms of the policy say that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder must have 
been incapacitated for the full deferred period and afterwards. In this case, the deferred 
period is six months and Mr Fs deferred period wouldve ended on 23 March 2021. Mr F 
was first deemed unfit for work, following the MI, in late September 2020. But he returned to work, on a phased-return, in January 2021. As such then, his initial period of absence ended 
well within the deferred period.
Aviva said that its CMO wouldve recommended that Mr F recommence work on a phased 
return, with a return to full-time hours on 15 April 2021. So it said it wouldve paid 
proportionate benefit after the expiry of the deferred period on 23 March 2021 and 15 April 
2021.
Unfortunately, the phased-return arrangements broke down and Mr F was signed-off again 
on 2 March 2021. In any event though, even if the phased-return had been successful, it 
seems no benefit wouldve been due. Thats because Mr F was still receiving company sick 
pay until 14 October 2021. And so it seems there was no loss of earnings for Aviva to cover 
until this point.
In my view, it was reasonable for Aviva to consider further medical evidence in order to 
establish whether Mr F had subsequently met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive looked 
carefully at the available medical evidence, including occupational health reports; cardiology 
letters and Mr Fs GP records. I agree with Aviva that from March 2021, there were clear 
indications that Mr F had reported work-related stress and anxiety, as well as post-MI 
symptoms. These symptoms were included on the fit notes completed by the GP, as well as 
in the GP records. I acknowledge too that there is reference to Mr F considering early 
retirement and finding his role stressful prior to the MI. The inclusion of work-related stress 
and anxiety on Mr Fs fit notes, in addition to post-MI symptoms, continued until late August 
2021. I accept that work-related causes of absence are excluded specifically from cover.
Im also mindful that follow-up cardiology referrals didnt find a cardiac cause for Mr Fs 
continuing symptoms (amongst other things, of shortness of breath; pain; chest pain and 
clamminess). Indeed, while I appreciate Mr F disputes one cardiologists findings  it was 
suggested that his symptoms were psychological in nature.
As Ive set above though, it appears benefit wouldnt have been payable until after 14 
October 2021 in any case. And I dont currently think Avivas conclusions on this point are 
unfair. This means I dont intend to direct it to pay Mr Fs claim prior to 14 October 2021.
However, I dont think that the evidence Ive referred to above means that the claim post this 
date must necessarily fail, as Ill go on to explore.
Did Aviva handle the claim fairly after 14 October 2021?
Aviva obtained Mr Fs medical records post-October 2021. Again, I think this was a 
reasonable and appropriate step for it to take. From 26 August 2021 onwards, the GP issued 
monthly fit notes which no longer referred to work-related stress and anxiety. Instead, these 
notes stated that Mr F was unfit for work due to persistent symptoms post-MI  a clear link 
with the MI Mr F had suffered in 2020. His records post-14 October 2021 note regular 
consultations with the GP, setting out the continuance of his symptoms and it appears that 
he was seen by cardiology again after this point; suffered a collapse and was referred to a 
Musculo-skeletal clinic to investigate his pain.
Mr F met with a consultant occupational physician (who Ill call Dr M) on 21 October 2021.
Ive set out what I consider to be Dr Ms most relevant findings below:
(Mr F) has been otherwise well until he had a heart attack in September last year. He 
required a stent to be fitted. At present, he explained that he struggles on a day-to-day basis 
with ongoing symptoms. He has profound fatigue, generalised weakness, chest and neck pains, shortness of breath, poor sleep, numbness in his hands and right-arm pain. He had a 
recent collapse and awaits further investigations in relation to this. He has no perceived 
work-related stressors at present, although he did state that previously he felt 
unsupported by Management but explained to me that this is no longer the case
Indications are that Mr F is not fit for work in any capacity at this stage. I do not 
believe any adjustments would enable a return to work at present. He has a cardiology 
review next month and I am hopeful that this will provide him with some guidance as to the 
cause of his recent collapse and whether or not his medications will need adjusting or further 
intervention will be required in view of his ongoing symptoms. (Emphasis added).
Dr M was asked: Is there an underlying health concern?
He answered: He had a heart attack in September 2020 and has ongoing symptoms. He 
awaits cardiology review and, indeed, is being assessed next month.
Its also clear that in November 2021, a health professional from the DWP carried out a work 
capability assessment on Mr F, following an application for ESA. The DWP placed Mr F in 
the support group category and found him to be eligible for ESA. Mr F has provided 
evidence to show he was awarded ESA and placed in this category. Ive looked carefully at 
the governments requirements, not just for ESA eligibility, but also at how it determines 
which group to place claimants in. I note that if a claimant is placed in the support group, the 
DWP considers theyre incapable of work at that point and arent expected to prepare for 
work in the future. The website also says that a claimant will usually be in the support group 
if their illness or disability severely limits what they can do.
I asked Aviva for its CMOs comments explaining why they maintained that Mr F still hadnt 
met the definition of incapacity after 14 October 2021, based on the medical evidence 
available. Ive copied some of Avivas response below:
No physical cause has been found for his ongoing symptoms. At the point he initially ceased 
work again at the beginning of March 2021, there were clear workplace stressors in terms of 
the support hed received from his employer and their unwillingness to allow a more 
sustainable return to work plan. Its quite possible had he been able to undertake a more 
gradual phased return, with support from his employer, he would have remained in the 
workplace and I dont feel theres any evidence to suggest this would not have been 
possible. I appreciate the OH report from October 2021 confirms Mr F was unfit for work at 
the time, however theres no evidence to suggest they had sight of his medical records and 
therefore while it may have been their opinion at the time that Mr F should refrain from work 
given his ongoing symptoms and while awaiting his next cardiac appt, I dont feel they had 
sight of all the relevant evidence in order to make a fully informed decision.
I would also point out we do not expect someone to be fully recovered or symptom free 
before returning to work, just that they be capable of undertaking the duties of their own 
occupation in some capacity, with suitable workplace modifications in place if required. As it 
stands, Mr F fortunately recovered from his heart attack, and was able to return to work well 
within the deferred period. Unfortunately, his employer was not supportive and it seems 
there had been some ongoing workplace issues present for some time, even prior to his 
absence. Their lack of support and unwillingness to support a longer term phased return to
work likely contributed to the failure of this phased return and as advised, our CMO feels had 
this been able to take place over a more reasonable period, theres no evidence to suggest 
this wouldnt have been successful.
While I appreciate Mr F has remained anxious, and this is entirely understandable given his previous heart attack and family history, he has been reassured on various occasions his 
symptoms do not appear to have a cardiac cause and its likely his issues are largely 
psychological in nature, given the length of time he has now been absent, I agree with his 
GPs comments in that there is also likely an element of deconditioning involved and its 
understandable he will likely be anxious about returning to work, especially in view of the 
previous failure and lack of support provided by his employer. That said, I still maintain the 
medical evidence does not demonstrate his symptoms have been of such severity as to 
render him totally incapacitated under the policy terms and conditions and I do feel with the 
right support from his employer, he is capable of some work.
Aviva were not able to pay benefit under the policy during his initial phased return, as benefit 
was not payable until October 2021 when his company sick pay ceased. We have however 
agreed to pay partial benefit going forward on his return to work should he do so in the future 
for a period of 3 months and I feel this is more than fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
In terms of Mr Fs acceptance for ESA, the assessment for such will be different to that 
which takes place in respect of this insurance policy. I acknowledge medical evidence was 
reviewed by whoever carried out the assessment, however I do not know what was 
provided, or what specific criteria theyve assessed against and so I cant comment as to 
how this differs. I would point out however theyre unlikely to consider workplace stress, 
which has clearly been a contributing factor in Mr Fs case.
While it does appear any ongoing issues have since been resolved, at the point he ceased 
work for the second time in March 2021, this was quite clearly a significant stressor and 
something we cant ignore. His employer is required under the policy terms and conditions to 
make reasonable adjustments to help facilitate a return to work and its very clear they were 
not willing to do so in the first instance. Its also unlikely they will be looking at whether that 
person could work with suitable workplace modifications or amendments to their role and 
this is something were also looking at within our assessment.
Regarding your request for comments directly from our CMO in respect of ESA, please see 
the below response;
ESA is assessing how much you can work, and you can work whilst claiming ESA hence 
not be TD from our aspect. You can work full time and still get ESA e.g. in voluntary work 
again, depending on your insured occupation, this might make an IP claim highly unlikely.
Assessment for ESA is by filling in a form and then sometimes only a phone call from the 
DWP. This means an assessment can be made with no medical input whatsoever apart from 
a Fit Note. Fit notes are in nearly every case issued against someones own occupation and 
takes no account of a suitable or generic role which is often part of an IP assessment. An IP 
assessment, in contrast, takes into account GP notes, hospital and consultant notes & 
letters, OH reports, employers input, independent medical information and sometime 
examinations and other forms of important information making a much fuller and holistic 
assessment of a case
Ive weighed up the available medical evidence very carefully. As Ive explained, as Im not a 
medical expert, I necessarily must consider the available specialist evidence and decide 
which I find most persuasive. Im grateful for Avivas further submissions and its CMOs 
comments. Ive considered these submissions closely.
However, whilst I dont dispute that no cardiac cause has been found for Mr Fs symptoms, it 
seems to me that both the GP and Dr M have attributed Mr Fs ongoing symptoms at least in 
part to his past MI. Dr M, a consultant occupational physician and as such, an expert in their field, assessed Mr F as being entirely unfit for work, even if workplace adjustments were to 
be made. I find this report a persuasive piece of medical evidence. It corroborates the GPs 
continued assessment of Mr F being unfit to work after October 2021 due to post-MI 
symptoms. And as Ive set out above, the DWP placed Mr F in its support group in 
November 2021 (and backdated its assessment to August 2021). The capability assessment 
letter it sent Mr F in October 2021 stated that the assessment would be carried out by a 
healthcare professional and ESA assessments also appear to take GP evidence into 
account. It seems to me that by placing Mr F in the support group, the relevant DWP 
healthcare professional concluded that he couldnt work and wouldnt be expected to look for 
work in the future. Again, this clearly corroborates the findings of Dr M and Mr Fs GP.
I appreciate that an ESA assessment likely differs from the way in which an income 
protection claim is assessed. And that Dr M may well have not been aware of Mr Fs cardiac 
findings overall. But in my view, the totality of the fit notes; GP records; Dr Ms report and the 
DWP ESA award all point to a conclusion that, on balance, Mr F was unfit to work in any 
capacity. And on that basis, it appears to me that Mr F has provided enough medical 
evidence to show he met the policy definition of incapacity after 14 October 2021. This 
means that I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Aviva to turn down his claim after that 
date. Therefore, I currently intend to direct Aviva to accept, backdate and pay Mr Fs claim 
from the date his sick pay ended and pay interest on those backdated payments, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. These terms include a requirement for Mr F 
to remain employed by his employer in order for cover to continue to apply.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Aviva said that it didnt think there was much it could add to what it had said before. So it 
said that while it disagreed with my findings, it did accept my provisional decision. It said it 
thought it would be reasonable to review the claim again in six months time.
Mr F asked me to consider some additional comments which set out the impact of Avivas 
actions on him. He said that hes now been dismissed by his employer, which invalidated the 
insurance policy and which therefore left him unable to make any future claims. He felt this 
was grossly unfair. He considered that Avivas decision to decline his claim had fed into his 
employer's decision to terminate his employment. He said that the situation had had a huge 
impact on his daily life and on his family. He felt it was impossible to quantify the effect on 
his emotional and physical well-being. He said he was experiencing financial hardship and 
that he would like an apology from Aviva, as well as full compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still satisfied that it was unfair for Aviva to turn down Mr Fs claim. And I 
remain persuaded that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Aviva to 
accept and pay Mr Fs claim from 14 October 2021 onwards, together with interest, in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
I was pleased to note that while Aviva disagreed with my provisional findings, it has agreed 
to accept my provisional decision. As such, I dont think I need to consider the claim aspect 
of the complaint in any further detail, other than to reiterate that I think the totality of the 
medical evidence demonstrates that Mr F did meet the policy definition of incapacity. And 
therefore, Ive decided that it was unfair for Aviva to turn down Mr Fs claim.It's clear that Mr F has been through a difficult time. I was very sorry to read of the financial 
hardship hes suffered and the impact of his employers decision to end his employment. 
However, Mr Fs employment is a matter between his employer and Mr F  its entirely 
separate to the complaint Mr F brought to us. Therefore, I dont think it would be appropriate 
for me to comment on that point.
The redress I am awarding in this case includes interest at an annual rate of 8% simple. 
Interest awards are designed to compensate consumers for the loss of use of money  in 
this case, to represent the time Mr F was without incapacity benefit after the point I think the 
claim ought to have been accepted and paid. I still think this is appropriate and fair 
compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I do sympathise with Mr Fs position and Im very sorry to hear about the impact this 
matter has had on his well-being. Mr F has requested an apology from Aviva for its decision 
to turn down the claim and this is something Aviva may wish to consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to:
Accept, backdate and pay Mr Fs claim from the date his sick pay ended;
Pay interest on the backdated payments at an annual rate of 8% simple from the 
date each payment was due, until the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr F how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman