DRN-3990262
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc notified him to say they would be applying interest 
and charges to his accounts despite there being an agreement in place that this would be 
suspended. 
What happened
Mr A has a personal loan, credit card and overdraft with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC). 
In August 2022, HSBC agreed that interest and charges wouldnt be applied on these 
accounts until July 2023 and that the accounts would be managed by their Financial Support 
Team. 
HSBC wrote to Mr A on 4 January 2023 saying his accounts would no longer be managed 
by their Financial Support Team and that interest and charges would reapply no earlier than 
in 30 days time. 
Mr A complained to HSBC explaining that theyd broken the terms of the agreement. HSBC 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said their Financial Support Team hadnt seen any 
evidence of financial difficulties in relation to Mr As overdraft as the account had been kept 
up to date since November 2022. HSBC also said they acted in accordance with their terms 
and conditions.
Mr A referred the matter to us. Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld 
the complaint. He said HSBC should have spoken to Mr A in January 2023 to reassess his 
financial situation rather than just send a letter about the changes they intended to make, 
bearing in mind that Mr A was in an agreement until July 2023. Our investigator said HSBC 
should pay Mr A £200 compensation for the shock and distress caused to him. 
HSBC didnt reply to our investigators view. Mr A said that, while he welcomed the amount 
of compensation proposed, he felt HSBC should reinstate the agreement to keep his 
accounts with their Financial Support Team and to suspend interest and charges on his 
accounts until July 2023. 
Mr A subsequently mentioned to us that HSBC had since notified him they would be 
reducing the limits on his credit card and overdraft. 
The matter has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute an agreement was in place between HSBC and Mr A from August 2022 
to July 2023, as described above. The issue here is whether it was fair for HSBC to alter this 
in January 2023. 
HSBC says they changed their policies and procedures in December 2022 whereby they 
would remove customer accounts from their Financial Support Team if those accounts were 
showing as up to date for two consecutive months. 
Ultimately, its for HSBC to decide its own policies and procedures and when to introduce 
them and, as our investigator, said, we wouldnt seek to influence this. However, I wouldnt 
expect the introduction of those policies and procedures to lead to Mr A being treated 
unfairly. 
As far as I can see, Mr As accounts were up to date for two consecutive months in line with 
HSBCs revision of their terms and conditions. So, in theory at least, HSBC didnt apply 
these inappropriately. 
However, this meant the agreement in place until July 2023 had changed. I can understand 
why Mr A feels so strongly about this. I do though think that it wasnt necessarily unfair for 
HSBC to consider whether Mr A was still in financial difficulty bearing in mind he was making 
payments towards his loan and credit card on time. I find however that HSBC should have 
done more than just send a letter effectively assuming that to be the case bearing in mind 
that Mr A had clearly experienced prior financial difficulties and was in an agreed 
arrangement with an agreed end date. HSBC should have contacted Mr A to discuss 
whether he was still in financial difficulty. So, I can understand why it was a shock for Mr A to 
receive HSBCs letter in January 2023.
It's not possible for me to know what would have happened had HSBC contacted Mr A to 
discuss the matter further. Mr A may have insisted that they kept to the prior arrangement. It 
might be though that HSBC could have reasonably felt Mr A was able to exit that 
arrangement because his circumstances had improved. Its also possible of course HSBC 
would have agreed a further plan based on Mr As circumstances at the time. The fact that I 
cant be certain what would have happened is mainly down to HSBC deciding to change the 
arrangement without a discussion and that is something that could have prevented this 
complaint from escalating as it has done. 
So, I think it fair that HSBC pay Mr A compensation for the way they handled their 
management of his accounts. I find that £200 is a fair figure for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A has been caused. I also find that HSBC should engage with Mr A to 
ascertain his current financial circumstances and act upon confirmation of that appropriately.
Mr A has made us aware that HSBC has reduced the credit limits on his credit card and 
overdraft. I understand why Mr A feels these are linked to HSBC altering the arrangement 
and that this should be included in this complaint. However, I cant be certain that these 
decisions are as linked as Mr A says and so I find these should be looked at separately by 
our service. If Mr A wishes to set up separate complaints for this, he can ask our investigator 
to help him do so. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr A compensation for the way they communicated with him when they 
chose to alter the arrangement that had been put in place. HSBC should also engage with 
Mr A to ascertain his current financial circumstances and act upon confirmation of that 
appropriately.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
engage with Mr A to ascertain his current financial circumstances and act upon 
confirmation of that appropriately; and
pay Mr A £200 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman