DRN-3728418
The complaint
Mr M complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M applied for, and was given a loan for £1,500, which was repayable over a
period of 24 months. The repayments were around £92 a month. The reason given for taking
out the loan was home improvements.
Mr M says 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have given him the loan because he was in extreme
financial hardship, and it wasnt affordable. 1Plus1 Loans says it did check whether the loan
was affordable, and based on those checks, Mr M had enough disposable income to make
the loan repayments.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and I explained why I didnt think 1Plus1 
Loans had done anything wrong. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr M would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. As this was a relatively small
loan, over a relatively short period of time, a less detailed affordability assessment, without
the need for verification might be reasonable and proportionate.
1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. It asked Mr M for
details of his income and expenditure and verified these with third parties. It reviewed his
credit file to understand his credit history and existing commitments. It also asked about the
purpose of the loan, which Mr M said was for home improvements. From these checks
combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded that Mr M had enough monthly disposable income to
afford the loan.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded Mr M had a monthly disposable income of
around £700, not including the payment for the new loan. Despite what Mr M says about
being in extreme financial hardship when he took out this loan, his credit file didnt show
signs of this. The total outstanding balance of his active credit accounts was about £170,
and he was making payments of around £45 a month towards these.
Mr M had missed a recent payment towards one of the active accounts and had three
historic defaulted accounts (the most recently being from 2017). But given the size of the
loan and how long Mr M would be paying it back for, I dont think this is enough to say
1Plus1 Loans should have done more to verify what Mr M had told it about his income and
expenditure. There was little from his credit file to suggest the information he had given
wasnt accurate.
Mr M did have three quite recent CCJs. But this fact alone doesnt mean 1Plus1 Loans
shouldnt have lent to him
.
When 1Plus1 Loans asked him about these CCJs, Mr M said he didnt know anything about
them. 1Plus1 Loans left it there. I would have expected 1Plus1 Loans to have questioned
Mr M further about these to satisfy itself he would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
When we asked Mr M about these, he said they related to loans hed taken out when he had
been doing agency work, which had been sporadic and he struggled financially. So they
seem to be related to historic financial problems, rather than an indicator of current financial
difficulties.
However, I do think 1Plus1 Loans should have factored in that Mr M might need to make
payments towards these judgements, as well as the defaulted accounts when calculating his
outgoings. While Mr M might not have been intending to make any payments towards these
debts, as a responsible lender, I would have expected 1Plus1 Loans to ensure he could
afford to do this, as well as make the payments towards any loan it was going to give him.
After all, further action could potentially be taken to recover the money if Mr M ignored the
CCJs.
We dont know the terms of the CCJs and Mr M hasnt given us anything more than the
amounts of the CCJs  a total of around £2,330. But even using a conservative estimate of
the amount Mr M would need to pay towards the debts to repay them in a reasonable time, it
seems he would still have had sufficient disposable income to sustainably repay the loan
from 1Plus1 Loans.
So while I think 1Plus1 Loans should have explored Mr Ms CCJs further and taken into
account the possibility he might need to make payments towards these and his defaulted
debts, had it done so, I think it would have reasonably concluded that Mr M could afford the
new loan.
1Plus1 Loans responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mr M hasnt responded by the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither 1Plus1 Loans nor Mr M have provided any new evidence or arguments in 
response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
It follows that for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I dont think
1Plus1 Loans did anything wrong by giving Mr M the loan it did.
I think 1Plus1 Loans should have done more to find out about Mr Ms CCJs and taken these, 
and his defaulted debts, into account when determining whether he could afford the loan 
hed applied for. But had it done so, Im satisfied it would reasonably have concluded that 
Mr M could afford the new loan.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman