DRN-4076837
The complaint
Miss S complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a claim 
against her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss S held a Lifetime pet policy with Red Sands which started on 5 April 2022 after she 
cancelled a previous pet policy held with them. She raised a claim for treatment after her dog 
had surgery to remove their tail. Red Sands declined the claim, and continuous treatment 
Miss S claimed for, as they say signs and symptoms of the condition were present during the 
14-day policy waiting period. And the policy says this would be considered as a pre-existing 
condition. Miss S wasnt happy. She says her dog went to the vets in April 2022 during the 
14-day waiting period, but this was for another unrelated issue. And the first mention of a 
problem with the tail was on 21 April 2022, which was after the 14-day waiting period. 
The treating vet wrote to Red Sands after the claim had been declined to say the swelling 
initially found in April 2022 (during the 14-day waiting period) wasnt linked to the tail 
condition that later required surgery. Red Sands considered their position but maintained the 
clinical history notes showed signs and symptoms of a problem with Miss Ss dogs tail was 
present on 11 April 2022. They also say Miss S, when asked, said she first noticed the screw 
tail problem when she attended the vets and a lump/infection was found around the tail, and 
was told due to this the tail needed removing. And this vet visit was within the 14-day waiting 
period. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Red Sands claim decision, and also says she held continuous 
cover given the previous policy was held with Red Sands, until she incepted the new policy 
with them, which started on 5 April 2022. As she remained unhappy, she approached our 
Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Red Sands acted 
fairly when relying on Miss Ss dogs clinical history notes to decline the claim. And the policy 
in question was a new policy, so he didnt agree Miss S held continuous cover. Miss S didnt 
agree, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says it doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, or any illness, symptom, or sign of 
illness occurring or existing in any form during the first 14 days of the policy commencement 
date. And Red Sands will consider any signs or symptoms that started in this period to be 
pre-existing. These are fairly common terms Ive seen in most, if not all pet insurance 
policies. The key question here in my view is whether Miss S ought reasonably to have 
known during the 14-day waiting period there was something wrong which likely would lead 
to a claim on the policy. It follows Im satisfied  based on the clinical history notes  its fair 
to say the answer to this question is yes. 
I say this because the clinical history notes state, on 11 April 2022 (during the 14-day policy 
waiting period), Miss Ss dogs tail was severely corkscrewed and sunken  dermatitis ++, 
wet in folds.. These notes say Miss S was advised strongly to have the tail amputated, as if 
the tail isnt removed, the maintenance of hygiene will help but a problem like this will likely 
re-occur. 
I note Miss S says this 11 April 2022 visit to the vets was linked to a different issue. And the 
treating vet has written to Red Sands to support this. However, the clinical notes, in my view, 
support there were signs of a problem with Miss Ss dogs tail on 11 April 2022  during the 
14-day policy waiting period. And this eventually led to a claim on the policy. It follows, while 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, Im satisfied Red Sands reached a fair and reasonable 
outcome on the claim and continuation treatment that followed. 
I note Miss S had previous cover in place with Red Sands before the policy in question 
commenced on 5 April 2022. She says this means shes been covered continuously with 
Red Sands so the claim should be met here. The claim notes show the previous policy Miss 
S held was cancelled by her around March 2022, then the policy in question was taken out 
online. The policy in question was a new policy incepted by Miss S, with a new premium and 
terms that applied to the same. And the terms stated any pre-existing conditions, or signs 
and symptoms that occurred or existed in any form during the first 14 days arent covered. 
It follows I dont find Red Sands applied the policy terms unreasonably or treated Miss S 
unfairly here. So, I dont require Red Sands to take any further action. I accept my decision 
will come as a disappointment to Miss S. But my decision ends what we  in attempting to 
resolve her dispute with Red Sands  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman