DRN-3970381
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the actions of Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) when it repossessed 
his property and sold it. He says the bank acted unreasonably in repossessing the property. 
Mr A has also complained that the property was sold for far less than it was worth.
Mr A has complained to us about other issues but an ombudsman has decided that these 
are outside our jurisdiction. This decision is therefore limited to consideration of the issues 
referred to above.
What happened
In 2009 Mr A took out a residential mortgage with BoS, borrowing £245,000, with £150,000 
on a repayment basis and £95,000 on interest-only, over a term of 24 years. The mortgage 
was secured on a property that was linked to commercial premises (a barn) that were also 
owned by Mr A, but on a separate legal title. 
Arrears accrued on the mortgage and in May 2019 BoS was granted an order of possession 
by the court and a money judgment for £266,199.72. I am told that initially BoS took both the 
house and the barn into possession, but after the bank realised that the barn wasnt part of 
the title, this was handed back to Mr A.
BoS instructed valuers to inspect the property. There were two valuations, both of which 
showed that the property wasnt suitable for mortgage purposes, and so the valuations came 
back as £0. 
In 2021 Mr As brother made a cash offer of £100,000 for the property. By this time it had 
remained unsold for two years. Because of the nature and location of the property, and 
issues with rights of way that left the property land locked, BoS concluded that the property 
was unlikely to find a cash buyer on the open market, and so the offer was accepted. 
Mr A complained. He was unhappy the property had been repossessed, about the valuations 
and about the sale price. Mr A didnt think it was fair for BoS to try to pursue him for the 
shortfall debt.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened but didnt think BoS had acted unfairly. Because of the arrears on the 
account, he thought BoS was entitled to apply for possession of the property. The 
investigator was also satisfied that BoS could rely on the expert opinion of the surveyors who 
valued the property. The investigator also thought, given the issues with the property, that it 
was reasonable for BoS to accept the cash offer for the property.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes doesnt dispute 
that BoS was entitled to possession. However, he is still unhappy about the sale of the 
property. Mr A has made some further points, which I summarise below:
the house and barn were worth more together and Mr A tried to work with BoSs 
solicitors to come to an arrangement to sell both properties together;
BoS failed to respond to his proposals, or make any counter-offer;
the house and barn together would have been worth at least £450,000, which would 
mean that BoS owes him at least £155,000;
he is willing to pay for an expert witness to support his position, but will only do so if the 
Financial Ombudsman Service confirms that the complaint will succeed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, an ombudsman has already decided that we cant consider other 
matters Mr A raised with us. For the sake of completeness, I confirm Ive read the 
ombudsmans jurisdiction decision dated 5 January 2023 decision and I agree with the 
conclusions the ombudsman reached about why we cant consider those other issues.
Given this, whilst Ive noted the comments Mr A has made in his recent letters about the 
valuation of the property in 2009, the ombudsman in her jurisdiction decision has already 
decided that we cannot look at this part of the complaint. I will therefore make no further 
comment on this issue.
Repossession action: Ive reviewed the contact notes and I can see that, prior to the bank 
beginning possession action, the account had been in arrears for several years. BoS had 
tried to work with Mr A to clear the arrears. At one point, arrears had been capitalised, but 
further arrears accrued after that. Unfortunately none of the proposals Mr A made to settle 
the arrears were acceptable to BoS, and payment promises werent adhered to. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied BoSs decision to take possession of the property was 
done as a last resort after all other reasonable options had been explored. I therefore dont 
think BoS acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances. I note Mr A has now 
confirmed his agreement that BoS was entitled to take possession.
Property valuations: BoS had two valuations on the property in 2019 and 2020, carried out 
by independent surveyors. Both gave a £0 market value for the property. 
Im satisfied that the surveyors who carried out the valuations were qualified through the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and that BoS was therefore entitled to rely on their 
professional opinions as to the open market value of the property. Im not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
Sale of the property: Generally a lender in possession will try to get the best possible price 
for a property. Given the issues in relation to access and shared services with the adjoining 
commercial property, a sale on the open market wasnt possible. While the property 
remained unsold, interest continued to accrue against the outstanding mortgage debt. 
Mr A says that he tried to work with BoS to sell the property, but BoS didnt reply. He made 
his settlement proposal on 12 February 2020. (I do not have a copy of that letter, so I do not 
know what the proposal was.) 
On 10 March 2020 Mr A emailed BoSs solicitors saying that his proposal had been valid for 
14 days but it was now 20 working days from when hed made his offer. The solicitor 
confirmed on 16 March 2020 that she was awaiting instructions, but on 17 March 2020 Mr A 
withdrew the proposal and said that evidence of his attempt to settle the matter would be 
raised in court.I cannot comment on any advice given to BoS by its solicitors about this; that is privileged 
and confidential. But in any event, before BoS could make a decision on Mr As settlement 
offer, he withdrew it. That didnt affect the banks position at all  BOS was in control of the 
property and so wasnt under any obligation to negotiate terms of settlement with Mr A, or to 
comply with his timescales to respond to him.
Im satisfied  taking into account all the circumstances of the case  that it was reasonable 
for BoS to accept the offer of £100,000 for the property, which I understand was from Mr As 
brother. Given that the adjoining commercial property was still owned by Mr A, I am not 
persuaded that there would or could have been any other potential interested purchaser in 
the property, particularly as there were issues over rights of way that effectively left the 
property land locked.
I appreciate that this has left a shortfall debt and that Mr A is unhappy about this. However, 
BoS is entitled, under the contract terms and conditions, to seek repayment of the remaining 
balance from Mr A. In all the circumstances, I dont think this is unfair and Im not upholding 
this part of the complaint.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. If Mr A decides not to accept this decision, 
he will be free to pursue his complaints against BoS in court, if he wishes to do so. Mr A will 
then be free to instruct his own expert witness, should the court consider this appropriate. 
Mr A might want to take advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action. 
If Mr A is experiencing financial difficulties, he can take advice from a debt advisory service 
such as Citizens Advice or StepChange. We can provide Mr A with contact details for those 
agencies, if hed like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman