DRN-2136232
The complaint
Mr D has complained about MetLife Europe d.a.c.s decision to decline his claim under his 
employers group income protection insurance policy. He has also complained about its 
handling of the claim.
What happened
Mr D was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
MetLife. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay a regular benefit if Mr D 
were unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury.
In June 2018, Mr D stopped working due to respiratory symptoms. He remained off work 
while investigations were carried out into the cause of his symptoms.
By the end of the deferred period in December 2018, Mr D still hadnt returned to work. He 
made a claim under the policy.
After obtaining medical information, in April 2019 Met Life declined the claim. It considered  
that while the medical evidence supported Mr Ds initial absence from work, it did not show 
that his symptoms were so severe as to prevent him from performing his occupation from 
mid-October 2018 onwards.
Mr D appealed against MetLifes decision and provided further medical evidence. He also 
pointed to inaccuracies in MetLifes review of his medical records and said it had ignored 
certain relevant information.
In June 2019, Met Life maintained its decision to decline the claim. It acknowledged it made 
some errors in its declinature letter of April 2019 but said these were minor, mainly referring 
to the dates of Mr Ds treatment, and didnt affect its overall understanding of the situation. It 
said all the medical information had been considered even though not all of it had been 
specifically mentioned in its letter. Having reviewed the new information provided by Mr D 
along with updated records which it had obtained from his GP, MetLife was satisfied its 
decision to decline the claim had been fair.
In August 2019, Mr D complained to MetLife about its decision and its handling of his claim. 
He considered it had failed to follow proper procedures when obtaining his medical records 
and had not fairly and thoroughly considered all the evidence. He considered the available 
evidence demonstrated that he was not fit to return to work.
In November 2019, MetLife issued a final response letter. It acknowledged, as it had 
previously, that there had been some service issues and that it had been slow to issue the 
final response letter, though it said this was partly due to the complexity of the case. 
However, it was satisfied its decision to decline the claim was fair and so it did not uphold 
Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained unhappy with MetLifes response. He considered it had failed to address all 
the points hed raised. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
MetLife had acted fairly in declining the claim. In general, the investigator considered that 
MetLife had acted reasonably in the way it obtained Mr Ds medical records but she 
suggested that if he still had concerns he should raise the matter with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). She was satisfied it had thoroughly considered all the 
evidence and had dealt with the claim fairly even if it hadnt responded to every specific point 
which Mr D had raised in his correspondence. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered that, like MetLife, she had failed 
to address all of his points of complaint. He continued to argue that MetLife had interpreted 
the medical information incorrectly and he analysed this information in detail, highlighting the 
evidence he considered was most relevant to show his claim was valid. He thought the 
investigator hadnt adequately addressed MetLifes failure to follow proper procedure when it 
obtained his medical records and its other service failings.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made extremely detailed submissions and has asked for specific responses to 
each of the points he has raised. I should make clear at the outset that we are an informal 
complaints resolution service and it is not practical or necessary for me to accede to Mr Ds 
request. I can assure Mr D that I have read all the information on file and have taken 
everything into account but my decision will necessarily focus on what I consider to be the 
key issues and evidence.
Mr Ds complaint can broadly be split into two parts: first, MetLifes decision to decline his 
claim and secondly, MetLifes administrative failures.
Let me deal initially with the decision to decline the claim. To be eligible for benefit, Mr D 
needs to show that he was prevented by illness or injury from performing the material and 
substantial duties of his occupation throughout the deferred period. The relevant period is 
therefore from June 2018 until December 2018.
Mr D has objected to MetLifes description of his job as being sedentary. However, according 
to his employer, although he is required to do some walking and standing, he spends the 
majority of the time seated and he is not generally required to do any lifting. I consider that it 
is reasonable to regard this as essentially a sedentary role.
Mr D started suffering from wheezing symptoms in April 2018. He carried on working despite 
these symptoms until June 2018 when he found it too difficult to continue.
His GP referred him to an NHS consultant chest physician, who Ill call Dr J. She arranged 
for him to undergo a CAT scan in July 2018 and again in October 2018. In the meantime, 
Mr D became concerned in the delay before he would see Dr J in a follow-up consultation. 
He therefore asked his GP to refer him to a private consultant, who Ill call Dr M.
Mr D was eventually diagnosed as having bronchiectasis. Mr D has spent a lot of argument 
over when this diagnosis should have been made and whether Dr J was at fault. However, 
while the diagnosis is informative, I dont consider it necessary for me to determine when he 
should have been diagnosed because, as the investigator has explained, the mere diagnosis of the condition doesnt mean he was necessarily incapacitated. What is more important is 
the symptoms he was suffering from during the relevant period and how these impacted on 
his ability to work. The fact that, from the evidence available to her at the time, Dr J was 
unable to provide a diagnosis may have been unsettling for Mr D. However, I disagree with 
his suggestion that it shows Dr J lacks credibility and her opinion should therefore be 
disregarded.
I consider that, by mid-October 2018, there is limited evidence to support that Mr D remained 
incapacitated by his symptoms. He apparently had normal spirometry, lung volumes and gas 
transfer. After seeing the results of his second CT scan, Dr J was reassured as to his health 
and noted that previous ground glass changes had fully resolved. 
Also in October 2018, Mr D saw an orthopaedic physician (who Ill call Dr K) about an 
unrelated matter but Dr K reported it appears that his chest symptoms have almost fully 
resolved. Mr D has argued that Dr Ks report should be disregarded on the grounds it is 
irrelevant. However, although Dr K is not a chest specialist he is medically qualified. He 
presumably based his comment on some evidence, most likely Mr Ds self-reporting, and 
I consider it highly unlikely he would have made the comment if Mr D had been displaying 
obvious significant symptoms during the consultation.
The day after seeing Dr K, Mr D saw his GP who prescribed standby antibiotics in case of 
further infection.
Later evidence indicates that Mr D continued to suffer from some symptoms until the end of 
the deferred period and beyond. For example, in February 2019 he was seen by a different 
NHS consultant chest physician (who Ill call Dr Z) who noted he was continuing to produce 
copious amounts of phlegm and who diagnosed him with bronchiectasis. However, Dr Z also 
reported:
He feels generally lethargic but he has no significant temperatures and has a good appetite. 
He has no significant indigestion or rhinosinusitis, and is not particularly breathless apart 
from on extreme exertion. He has no significant wheezing. He also remarked that he has no 
chest pain.
MetLife also sought an opinion from Dr M in March 2019 about how Mr Ds symptoms might 
have impacted on his functionality on a daily basis. Dr M responded:
This is difficult to comment on. However, given his ongoing chest symptoms with recurrent 
chest infections can be very debilitating [sic] 
MetLife acknowledges that from mid-October 2018 Mr D may have been experiencing a 
chronic infection. However, it considers that this was lower-grade from his earlier infections 
and therefore his symptoms should not have prevented him from working. It noted that he 
had also reported lethargy and night sweats though it considered the evidence was lacking 
to demonstrate that these problems were so significant as to cause him to be totally 
incapacitated.
On balance, I consider this was a reasonable position for MetLife to take. I sympathise with 
Mr D that he has been diagnosed with a chronic condition which means he is susceptible to 
chest infections and may sometimes be too ill to work. I accept that he went through a very 
difficult period, particularly while his diagnosis was still unknown. However, I consider the 
evidence isnt strong enough to support that Mr D remained totally incapacitated by his 
symptoms throughout the deferred period. I therefore consider it was reasonable for MetLife 
to decline Mr Ds claim.With regard to Mr Ds complaint about MetLifes administrative failures, MetLife has 
acknowledged that it didnt follow proper procedures when it obtained Mr Ds medical 
information. As a result, he wasnt sent this information before it was sent to MetLife. It has 
apologised for this error. I consider this is enough. Mr D had provided consent for MetLife to 
obtain his medical information, albeit it was supposed to notify him when it was requesting 
this and he was supposed to have sight of it first. MetLife needed the information to assess 
the claim and I dont consider that it sought medical information which was irrelevant. 
However, as the investigator has pointed out, if Mr D remains unhappy he may raise his 
complaint with the ICO.
I consider that many of the complaint points raised by Mr D, for example about errors in 
MetLifes correspondence, its lack of impartiality, its professionalism and its placing of 
emphasis on the wrong pieces of evidence, really relate to his view that it was wrong for 
MetLife to decline his claim. I have already explained above that Im satisfied MetLifes 
decision was fair. There were some errors in its correspondence, as MetLife has 
acknowledged, but in general these were minor and I do not consider that these were likely 
to have affected the decision which MetLife reached. The fact that in its correspondence it 
didnt reference every single piece of medical evidence, in the same way that I have chosen 
to reference only certain pieces of evidence in this decision, doesnt mean that all the 
evidence wasnt considered.
There were some delays in MetLife responding to the appeals made by Mr D following its 
initial decision to decline the claim. However, I consider these delays were mainly due to 
MetLife making sure it had obtained and thoroughly considered all the necessary evidence, 
particularly given the detailed objections raised by Mr D. MetLife has apologised for any 
delays and Im satisfied this was reasonable. I dont consider that it needs to pay him 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman