DRN-2416036
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund disputed transactions she says 
she didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Between 28 and 30 September 2018, Miss P says that three transactions totalling £415.00 
were made from her account using her bank card without her consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
Miss P says she was checking her bank statements and noticed three transactions made at 
a store she normally shops at that she didnt recognise. She says the transactions were of a 
higher value than she normally spends. And believes her card must have been cloned. So, 
she reported the transactions to Barclays. And asked the bank to refund her the money.
Barclays investigated Miss Ps fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions. It said Miss P had most likely either made the transactions herself or allowed 
someone else to make them. In summary the bank said
Miss Ps genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
there were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
there was no plausible explanation for how someone else was able to take Miss Ps 
bank card, guess Miss Ps PIN and use the card to make the transactions
the transactions were made at a merchant where Miss P also made undisputed 
transactions 
there were undisputed transactions made within minutes of disputed transactions and
the fraudulent transactions stopped on 30 September 2018, despite Miss P not 
reporting the matter until July 2019 and there being funds available in the account, 
which isnt usual fraudulent behaviour
Unhappy with this response Miss P brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into her complaint. She said the evidence showed Miss Ps genuine 
card and PIN had been used to make the transactions. So, she didnt think the card was 
cloned. And she concluded it was most likely Miss P had made the transactions. 
Miss P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, so the matter has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Miss P and Barclays have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Miss P 
that Ive read the file, including Miss Ps comments and evidence.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Miss P, but Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss P authorised 
the payments, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Miss P says she didnt make 
the disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Miss P authorised the transactions by making them herself.
  
Having reviewed Barclays technical evidence, Im satisfied that Miss Ps card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the 
regulations relevant to this case, say that this is not on its own enough to enable Barclays to 
hold Miss P liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that Miss P consented to the transactions being made or 
whether she is the victim of fraud as shes alleged. 
Miss P is adamant that she didnt make the transactions. She says the value of the 
transactions are out of character for her usual spending pattern. And Ive also taken on 
board what shes told us about how she thinks her card was cloned. But having considered 
the available information, I dont think Miss Ps card was cloned. I say this because the 
banks technical evidence shows it was Miss Ps genuine card and PIN that was used to 
make the disputed transactions. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Miss P did 
consent to the transactions she is disputing. I say this because:
Barclays technical records show the transactions were made using Miss Ps genuine 
card and PIN
Miss P has explained that her card was always in her possession. So, theres no 
plausible explanation for how an unknown third party would be able to gain 
possession of Miss Ps card 
Miss Ps PIN was set by the bank and hadnt been changed to something personal to 
her or easily guessable
Miss P has explained shed not disclosed her PIN to anyone and had never made a 
written record of it, so I think its extremely unlikely that a fraudster would take 
Miss Ps card, guess her PIN correctly, spend on the card, then return the card to 
Miss P, then replace the card and take it again two days later without Miss P being 
alerted
the disputed transactions took place over a period of three days and within minutes 
of undisputed transactions, for example on 28 September 2018 at 7.02pm an 
undisputed transaction for £3.90 was made and at 8.06pm a disputed transaction for 
£104.98 was made. On 30 September 2018, an undisputed transaction for £3.93 was 
made at 2.13pm less than half an hour after a disputed transaction of £160.03 was 
made at 1.51pmthis would mean a third party would have to be in Miss Ps company, take and 
replace Miss Ps bank card without being noticed over a number of days at different 
times. And then put Miss Ps card back in time for her to use it. This back and forth 
wouldve created an unnecessary risk of alerting Miss P that fraudulent transactions 
were taking place
the disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster 
would try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit 
from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the 
card is cancelled. But this didnt happen. Miss P still had quite a bit of money in her 
account when the last disputed transaction was made on 30 September 2018 and 
the card remained active for a further three months until Miss P reported the card as 
lost to the bank. But no further disputing spending occurred
the disputed transactions took place at a merchant Miss P regularly used
Miss P checked her online banking on multiple occasions after the disputed 
transactions but didnt make a fraud report until July 2019  if as Miss P suggests the 
value of spending was out of character for her, I think its likely she wouldve noticed 
the difference in her balance much sooner than she did if she hadnt authorised the 
transactions. And raised this with the bank earlier than July 2019. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation is that Miss P made the disputed transactions herself.  So, in the 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Barclays to refund Miss P the disputed 
transactions. 
Lastly, Barclays accepts that it took too long to look into things for Miss P and didnt keep her 
updated about what it was doing. I can see that Barclays has apologised and offered Miss P 
£75 compensation, which I think is a reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Miss Ps 
complaint. So, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more. And I will leave it to Miss P 
to decide whether she now wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman