DRN-2142103
The complaint
Ms K says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream provided four loans to Ms K as shown in the table below. All the loans have 
been paid. 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount*Highest 
monthly 
repayment
1 8-Jul-17 22-Dec-17 6 £700.00 £250.67
2 5-Sep-17 27-Feb-18 6 £440.00 £397.80
3 8-Nov-17 27-Dec-17 6 £270.00 £429.98
4 21-Nov-17 5-Dec-17 6 £100.00 £459.58
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Lending Stream first looked at Ms Ks complaint it didnt uphold her complaint about 
any of these loans. So Ms K brought her complaint to us and one of our adjudicators 
investigated. 
Our adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say Lending Stream acted unfairly 
when it provided loans 13. 
But he felt that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Ms K when she already 
had three loans outstanding with the lender. He felt that this ought to have alerted Lending 
Stream to the possibility that Ms K might have been having problems managing her money. 
And in these circumstances, Lending Stream shouldve realised it was unlikely Ms K 
wouldve been able to repay loan 4 in a sustainable way.
Lending Stream told us that after considering what our adjudicator had said, it was now 
willing to settle the complaint in the way that the adjudicator recommended. And Lending 
Stream offered to put things right for Ms K. 
Ms K disagrees with our adjudicator and doesnt feel that what Lending Stream has now 
offered to do goes far enough to put things right. She feels that Lending stream should not 
have lent her any of the loans it provided as she was borrowing from other providers of 
short-term high cost loans at the same time and she had a poor credit rating.
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Ms K could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Keeping all this in mind, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Ms Ks complaint. 
After doing that and having independently looked at Ms Ks complaint afresh, Ive come to 
the same view as our adjudicator. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and Ill explain why I say this.loans 1 and 2
Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded for Ms K, including 
income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. 
Overall, looking at the repayments that Ms K needed to make on these loans, the amounts 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income shed declared. 
I've taken into account: 
the loan repayment amounts
what was apparent about Ms Ks circumstances at the time and
the fact that Ms K was a new borrower with Lending Stream and she took out these 
loans when shed only been borrowing Lending Stream loans for a couple of months. 
So she had no significant borrowing history with Lending Stream at that stage that 
mightve alerted Lending Stream to any possible money problems.
 
Given all this, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Ms K for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first two loans. 
So thats why Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint about loans 1 and 2
loan 3.
When she asked for this loan Ms K was still paying loans 1 and 2. And she applied for her 
third loan relatively quickly  just a couple of months or so after taking out loan 2.
I think this should have prompted Lending Stream to look further into Ms Ks circumstances 
when she took out loan 3 to make sure that it had a proper understanding of Ms Ks financial 
situation. I say this because Lending Stream shouldve seen that this record of borrowing 
looked to be at odds with what Ms K had said about her financial situation. 
I think Lending Stream shouldve asked more searching questions about Ms Ks spending on 
other short term loans and taken steps to check what she was saying about her finances.  
It doesnt look like this happened. 
But it makes no overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because I havent 
seen enough to show that Lending Stream shouldve decided not to agree these loans had it 
asked all the questions and done all the checks it shouldve carried out.
For this reason, Im not planning to uphold Ms Ks complaint about loan 3.
loan 4
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 4 
and Im upholding Ms Ks complaint about loan 4 only.
When she asked for this loan, Ms K already had three other outstanding short-term loans 
with Lending Stream. And even though loan 4 was for just £100, and Ms Ks smallest single 
loan, I think Lending Stream is right to agree to uphold her complaint about this loan. I think Lending Stream shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Ms Ks borrowing 
record that she was likely having money problems. 
As Lending Stream has agree to provide redress in line with our adjudicators 
recommendation, I dont need to say more about this.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms K has told us, including what shes said in 
response to our adjudicators view. But I dont think Lending Stream did anything wrong 
when it provided the first three loans. 
For the reasons I've explained, I dont think Lending Stream had any reason to think the first 
three loans werent likely to be sustainably affordable for Ms K  or that Lending Stream 
shouldve asked more questions or done better checks before providing loans 1-3. 
So thats why Im just upholding Ms Ks complaint about loan 4.
I appreciate that what Ive said will be disappointing for Ms K. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons in the way I have will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
Putting things right
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms K towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms K which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms K originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Ms K the total of "A" and "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries from Ms Ks credit file for loan 4. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Ms K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Ms Ks complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman