DRN-3391254
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESL) failed to pursue his 
chargeback claim in respect of a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M bought a car at a cost of £1,750 which he paid for using his AESL credit 
card. It was some 12 years old and had covered over 76,000 miles. Some two weeks later it 
broke down and he called out the AA. The mechanics report stated:
Advice given to member. Timing chain has broken causing internal engine damage engine 
is now seized. Engine will not crank over manually.
Mr M reported this to the dealer and it arranged for the car to be taken to a local garage. It 
reported:
Timing chain checked, timing chain found to be intact video sent. Oil level checked and 
found to be at least 9 inches above the maximum mark. Sump plug removed to lower the oil 
level and check the oil condition but found the sump was full of water. See video. It later 
states: In my opinion the only was the engine could have that amount of water in it would be 
from the vehicle going through a substantial amount of water. And finally, it states: The 
water could not have been in the engine at the time of sale or the engine would not have 
ran. 
Mr M sought further clarification from the AA and it replied as follows: 
The member advised she would like it put on the breakdown report: The oil was not 
contaminated with water at the time of breakdown. Which I can confirm it was not 
contaminated with water and was at the correct level also at a good quality state. The engine 
is seized due to an internal engine fault suspect timing chain, attempted to crank engine over 
by hand but would not do a full revolution on a quarter witch (stet) says to me the pistons are 
making contact with the valves.
AESL made a chargeback request on behalf of Mr M and after receiving a response from the 
dealer it concluded the claim should stand. However, the dealer submitted further 
information and AESL changed its mind. It offered Mr M compensation of £100 for poor 
service.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted the conflicting evidence and said 
she thought AESL should have put the matter to arbitration. However, she said that she 
thought it was right to place more weight on the AA report as it was an independent service 
and the garage carried out the work for the dealer free of charge which did not suggest full 
independence. 
She said that although Mr M did not refer to section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 our 
service expected businesses to consider if the consumer had a valid claim. She thought it 
likely that a claim under section 75 would have succeeded.
AESL didnt agree and said that there was not enough evidence to support the chargeback 
claim and it had reached a reasonable conclusion. It noted the AA report said that its 
findings should be checked by another garage before getting any further work done. It also 
said that a roadside assistance report carried less value than a specialist report. It suggested 
the matter would be best dealt with by the Motor Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where necessary and / or appropriate, I reach my decision on a balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
This is a finely balanced matter and I have given a great deal of consideration to the material 
which both parties have provided.
I will deal firstly with the chargeback. It may help if I explain the chargeback system. 
Chargeback doesn't mean there is joint liability on the card company. It is a voluntary 
scheme administered by the card provider. The consumer makes a claim to their bank and it 
puts a request to the merchant's bank. But there are no guarantees the consumers bank will 
be able to recover the money through chargeback, or that the merchant will accept that the 
claim is justified. 
In this case the chargeback was initially successful as the dealer did not provide sufficient 
information to challenge the claim the car was faulty. However, it did later submit additional 
information and this was enough to persuade AESL not to pursue matters further. I can see 
why it reached that conclusion and while arbitration would have been preferable I dont 
believe it was unreasonable for AESL to have reached the decision it did.
The next issue is the failure to consider section 75. This service expects businesses to 
explore section 75 in addition to a chargeback claim. Consumers may not be fully aware of 
their rights and I believe AESL should have told Mr M about section 75 and considered if it 
applied. 
With regard to section 75 in considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to 
the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.The car was fairly old and had covered over 76,000 miles and so it is reasonable to conclude 
that it will have suffered from noticeable wear and tear. I dont believe Mr M disputes that, 
but it suffered a catastrophic breakdown and the cause is disputed with two mechanics 
reaching different conclusions. I would mention that while AESL may have more recently 
suggested the matter be considered by the Motor Ombudsman, Mr M is entitled to bring a 
complaint to this service.
I agree that the AA report was based on a roadside investigation and I also agree with our 
investigator that the garage report, which is actually recorded as an invoice, was done free 
of charge for the dealer by a local garage. To some extent it can be said that the garages 
report is not wholly independent. That means I am left without a comprehensive independent 
report on the car. 
The issue of concern is that the garage report and video show a clear liquid being drained 
from the car and then a black liquid comes out next, but the AA mechanic has said that the 
oil wasnt contaminated with water and was in a good state. The car wasnt working at the 
time of the AA inspection and I have no reason to dispute the AAs findings at that point in 
time that the oil wasnt contaminated. The garage has sent a video which it says shows the 
chain working after the AA mechanic had said it was broken. His subsequent report says 
that he believed the engine was seized due to an internal fault, possibly a broken chain. 
It has also been suggested that Mr M may have caused the problem by putting water into the 
engine. While I agree that this possible I think it highly unlikely and without clear evidence I 
dont believe it reasonable to take this suggestion as a likely explanation. That would require 
Mr M to have done so after the AA inspection, but it had already broken down so why would 
he do so at that point? However, I cannot say how water ended up in the engine.
I appreciate the information supplied by the garage which looked at the car, but I do not 
consider that is sufficient to allow me to disregard the AA report which is fully independent 
and was undertaken at the time the car broke down.
As I have said I consider this to be a finely balanced decision, but I have concluded that at 
the time the car broke down there was no evidence of contaminated oil. The car had 
suffered a major failure at that point and given this occurred a month after the date of sale I 
cannot safely conclude that the car was of sufficient durability.
Putting things right
Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct American Express Services 
Europe Limited
refund £1,750 and reconstruct the credit card account from April 2021 when the claim 
was overturned refunding any interest or charges as necessary.
pay an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to the customer or reimburse Mr M for any 
collection charges.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman