DRN-3734890
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have unfairly defaulted his loan account.
What happened
Mr S took out a personal loan for £25,000 with TSB in February 2018. The contractual 
monthly payment was £552.34.
Due to the pandemic Mr S lost his job and contacted TSB for help with his loan repayments 
in April 2020. TSB provided a covid-related three-month payment deferral in line with the 
temporary guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) because of the 
pandemic. 
Once the payment deferral had ended Mr S contacted TSB as his finances were still 
impacted by the pandemic and he hadnt been able to secure further employment. Mr S 
asked for a further three-month extension of his payment deferral, but this was declined. The 
agent said hed already had the maximum three-month payment deferral, so they werent 
able to grant an extension. As Mr S still wasnt in a position to make the contractual loan 
repayments, TSB placed his account on hold until Mr S was able to obtain new employment, 
where hed then be in a financial position to meet the monthly loan payments again.
In October 2020, Mr S contacted TSB to explain he was still out of work as a result of the 
pandemic. He made an offer to repay £50 a month. TSB declined this offer as the arrears 
needed to be cleared before a repayment plan could be agreed. As an alternative, Mr S 
offered TSB £7,000 in full and final settlement of the outstanding debt. TSB didnt accept this 
offer as the outstanding account balance was just over £12,000. Unhappy that TSB refused 
his offers, Mr S raised a complaint.
TSB called Mr S to discuss his concerns then referred Mr S to various charities for further 
help and they also put the account on hold for a further 30 days. TSB also explained why 
they couldnt accept £7,000 to settle the loan, and they say Mr S accepted their explanation 
and it was agreed the complaint was resolved.
Once the 30 days hold had passed, TSB sent Mr S a default notice on 24 November 2020, 
and a formal demand letter was sent to Mr S on 16 December 2020. As Mr S didnt contact 
TSB to arrange a payment plan, the account was passed to recoveries and a default was 
applied to his credit file.
When Mr S received the letter about his account being passed to recoveries, he contacted 
TSB again to complain in January 2021 and the complaint was reopened. As TSB didnt 
issue Mr S with a final response letter within eight weeks of the complaint being reopened, 
Mr S referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint and said that TSB should have realised 
that Mr S was eligible for a payment deferral extension - given the updated FCA guidance on 
payment deferrals, when the initial payment deferral expired. However, the investigator then 
went on to say that even if Mr S had been granted a payment deferral extension, it wouldnt 
have been beneficial because Mr S financial circumstances hadnt improved by October 
2020, which is when the second three-month extension wouldve expired. Therefore, she 
thought Mr S account would still have defaulted. She also said she didnt think TSB had 
unfairly rejected Mr S offers of a repayment plan or a reduced loan settlement figure.
Mr S rejected the investigators findings. He said that following TSBs rejection of the £7,000 
offer to settle the loan, he offered the full amount to settle the loan. But Mr S says this offer 
was also rejected. Our investigator contacted TSB about this, but TSB couldnt locate any 
further calls or notes about a second call form Mr S offering to settle the loan in full. So this 
didnt alter the outcome the investigator had reached.
As Mr S disagreed with the outcome, he asked for a final decision as he said TSB wouldnt 
let him repay the debt because of his financial position. So, the case has been passed to me 
to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Mr S
will be disappointed, but I can only uphold Mr S complaint if I find that TSB has done 
something wrong or treated him unfairly. And I dont think TSB did. Ill explain why.
Payment deferral extension
Its not in dispute that TSB provided Mr S with a three-month covid-related payment
deferral in line with the temporary (FCA) guidance in place at the time. So, Im satisfied that 
TSB treated Mr S fairly at this point.
When Mr S called TSB once the three-month payment deferral ended and asked for an 
extension. Like the investigator I agree that TSB wrongly advised him that he wasnt eligible 
for an extension as hed already had the maximum three-month payment deferral. Whilst this 
was correct at the time Mr S applied for the initial payment deferral in April 2020, once hed 
contacted TSB in July 2020, the FCA guidance had been updated in June 2020 to say 
lenders could agree payment deferrals up to a maximum of six months.
So, Ive considered whether Mr S has lost out as a result of TSB not extending his covid-
related payment deferral.  
I think its important to explain at this point that while the FCAs guidance said a lender could 
agree covid-related payment deferrals up to a maximum of six months (taken in two three-
month blocks), payment deferrals were intended for borrowers whose financial difficulties 
were short-term and it was clear that the borrower would be able to resume their normal 
contractual payments at the end of the additional three months. So, Im satisfied that TSB 
wasnt required to automatically agree a further covid-related payment deferral if they didnt 
think Mr S wouldve been able to continue with his contractual monthly payment within the 
next three months. 
Had TSB agreed to the payment deferral extension in July 2020, Mr S wouldve needed to 
have been in a position - once the three-months had ended in October 2020, to commence 
his contractual monthly repayments. But when Mr S contacted TSB in October 2020 to 
discuss a payment plan, his financial position hadnt improved. So, from the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr S financial situation was short-term and it was unlikely hed 
be able to return to his normal monthly contractual payments. 
In any event  TSB placed a hold on Mr S account. This meant Mr S wasnt required to 
make his monthly payments (similar to a covid-related payment deferral) and it refunded 
some interest - which TSB couldve charged had Mr S been on a covid-related payment 
deferral. So, Im satisfied that TSBs decision to not extend his covid-related payment 
deferral hasnt caused Mr S a financial loss. 
Mr S has said his loan balance had increased by around £1,000.  I can see that when he 
took the loan in February 2018, interest was charged monthly at 2.9% in line with Mr S 
credit agreement. When payments are missed  as is the case here because of the payment 
holiday and ongoing financial issues, the balance goes up. This is because during the 
payment holiday interest is still accrued. That was in line with the FCA Covid relief guidance 
at the time.
When Mr S made the payment in March 2020 the balance was £12,333.37. But as no 
contractual payments were made from then on, the interest due has slowly increased the 
balance (although some it was refunded or waived) leaving a balance of £12,458.83 when 
the account was defaulted. So, while Mr S balance increased overall (after any 
refunds/waivers), it only did to £125.46. So, Im satisfied that Mr S balance didnt increase 
by £1,000 and the increase that did happen was a result of interest that was rightfully due 
under the credit agreement. 
Settlement of the loan
Ive considered what Mr S says about the repayment plan he proposed, and the offers of 
settlement he presented to TSB. 
When Mr S called TSB in October 2020 and proposed a £50 monthly repayment plan, TSBs 
call notes (recorded at the time) show that they completed an income and expenditure with 
Mr S, and this showed Mr S outgoings were greater than his income. And for TSB to have 
accepted a repayment plan, the existing arrears needed to have been repaid first to avoid 
the account being defaulted. So, Im not persuaded Mr S was in a position to afford the 
payments he offered. So, Im persuaded that TSB didnt treat Mr S unfairly by not accepting 
this offer. The offer wasnt sustainable and wouldve put him in further financial detriment.
Mr S has since said he offered to repay the loan in full, but TSB refused the offer. Again, Ive 
referred to the call Mr S had with TSB. And the notes suggest that Mr S offered TSB £7,000 
in full and final settlement, which TSB didnt accept. Im satisfied TSB was under no 
obligation to accept £7,000 to settle the loan in full when the debt owed was just over 
£12,000. So, Ive gone on to consider that Mr S says he later offered TSB the full amount to 
settle the loan and this offer was declined. TSB has said they dont have a record of Mr S 
making an offer to clear the loan in full. Having thought about this carefully, I havent seen 
enough to make me think Mr S offered to repay the loan in full. I say this because I think its 
most likely that - had such an offer been made, TSB wouldve accepted it as it was in their 
interest to do so. In any event, when the notice of default was issued, Mr S had the option to 
repay the full amount at this point to avoid the account being defaulted. But he didnt do so. 
The default
As Mr S was unable to agree sustainable repayment terms with TSB, it issued a notice of 
default and Mr S account was subsequently defaulted. Given Mr S hadnt put forward a 
sustainable payment offer, Im satisfied that TSB acted correctly in defaulting Mr S account. In doing so, this meant further charges and interest were suspended and lower payments 
can be agreed. 
The terms of Mr S account make provision for TSB to pass the account to a third-party debt 
collection agency in these circumstances. And TSB are obliged to provide accurate 
information about the conduct of an account to the credit reference agencies (CRA)  
including missed payment and defaults. I appreciate that Mr S credit file will also show 
missed payments for the three months when he could have been on the extended covid-
related payment deferral. But I dont think this information will have an extra detrimental 
impact due to the adverse data TSB is required to report since. So, I dont find that TSB did 
anything wrong here.
Summary
I appreciate that Mr S financial situation was impacted by the pandemic  something
outside of his control. And having a default registered on his credit file will have a long-term 
impact on his ability to obtain further credit. But for the reasons given above, I havent found 
that TSB did anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly to the extent that he has lost out. So, 
Im not able to tell TSB to remove the default on his credit file or recall the account from the 
third-party debt collection agent.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman