DRN-2433753
The complaint
Miss M complains about the date Nationwide Building Society registered a default on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss M says Nationwide should have registered a default on her credit file in 2013 rather 
than 2015. She says the problems started on her account in 2013 and not 2015 and so the 
default ought to be backdated to then. Miss M says the default is causing problems in 
obtaining credit.
Nationwide says Miss M missed three consecutive credit card payments in early 2015 and 
so registered the default in May 2015. It doesnt accept making a mistake or that Miss Ms 
account was badly run in 2013.
Miss M brought this complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss M had missed a couple of payments before 2015 but had missed a number of 
consecutive payments in early 2015 and so Nationwide didnt make a mistake by registering 
the default. The investigator also thought Nationwide had spoken to Miss M in April 2015 
and told her it likely her account would default.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and maintains the default ought to have been applied 
earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide hasnt made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by registering the default in 2015. I appreciate that Miss M will be disappointed 
by my decision.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) gives guidance on the registration of a a 
default and says a default ought to be registered where there are between three and six 
months missed payments and that the relationship between the parties has broken down. 
So, I have looked carefully at Miss Ms account statements and I can see that Miss M used 
her account regularly up to 2015. I appreciate that before 2015 there were a couple of late 
payments, but Im satisfied the problems started in 2015. I can see there were at least three 
months of missed payments and that Miss M was told by Nationwide the account was likely 
to default. 
So, I dont think Nationwide in those circumstances made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
reasonably concluding that after three months of missed payments the relationship between 
it and Miss M had broken down. It follows that I think Nationwide was obliged to register a 
default on Miss Ms credit file, as it is required to provide accurate information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies.
I appreciate Miss M says the default ought to be backdated to 2013 but I cant see that there 
were any account problems during that time or before 2015. I can also see that in 2015 Miss 
M didnt want to discuss a repayment plan with Nationwide as she was worried about a 
default being registered on her credit file.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide hasnt made a mistake and correctly registered a default at 
the appropriate time. I cant order it to backdate the default in those circumstances.
I appreciate Miss M has other complaints about Nationwide that are being looked at by it and 
so I cant fairly comment on them in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman