DRN-2547226
The complaint
Mr B as director of P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly closed the companys 
account.
What happened
Mr B says HSBC decided to close Ps account due in large to an incident in a HSBC branch. 
He says he was not aggressive as HSBC says and he only attended the branch once. Mr B 
accepts calling a HSBC staff member a jobsworth but says the decision to close the 
account was disproportionate. He would like compensation of just under £10,000 for the 
distress and inconvenience he and his wife were caused.
HSBC says it is entitled to close an account by giving two months notice and says it acted in 
line with account terms and conditions. It says it has provided reasons for that decision 
despite it not being obliged to do so.
Mr B brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close an account. 
And thought there were two versions of events which would make it difficult to decide what 
took place in the branch.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says HSBC made it impossible for him to present his side 
of the events and questions why HSBC hasnt checked the video footage from its branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I also 
make clear to Mr B that this is a complaint brought not by him but by P, and so I can only 
consider the impact on it and not Mr B or his wife in any event.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think P would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that HSBC can close an 
account by giving two months notice. Im satisfied that is what took place here that HSBC 
acted in line with those terms and conditions, and so hasnt made a mistake or acted 
unfairly.
I dont think HSBC was obliged to tell P why it intended to close its account but can see 
HSBC has provided reasons. I appreciate Mr B disagrees with those reasons, but I dont 
think that matters or that I need to decide what took place in the branch. I have made clear 
that HSBC is entitled to close an account which is what took place here. I also think it 
impossible in any event to fairly conclude what took place in the branch when both sides 
provide different versions of events.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to close Ps account and in any event, I could not 
award Mr B compensation even if I thought HSBC had made a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman