DRN-4026871
The complaint
Miss B complains NAYLORS FINANCE LIMITED (Naylors) gave her loans which she
couldnt afford to repay. Had Naylors looked at her credit report it wouldve seen defaults and
missed payment markers.
What happened
Miss B was advanced six loans by Naylors, and a summary of her borrowing can be found in 
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalments 
(weeks)highest 
repayment
1 £100.00 02/08/2019 12/12/2019 27 £6.00
2 £100.00 30/10/2019 10/02/2020 27 £6.00
3 £200.00 12/12/2019 07/05/2020 27 £12.00
4 £200.00 10/02/2020 10/06/2020 27 £12.00
5 £200.00 07/05/2020 outstanding 27 £12.00
6 £200.00 10/06/2020 outstanding 27 £12.00
Miss B has had some problems making repayments towards her final two loans and Naylors
says an outstanding balance remains due.
The highest repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so where loans overlapped
the cost would be greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were being repaid at the same
time Miss Bs weekly commitment to Naylors was £12.
Following Miss Bs complaint Naylors wrote to her to in a final response letter (FRL) to
explain why it believed it made a reasonable decision to lend the first four loans. However, it 
did offer redress of £248 but because an outstanding balance remained this would be used 
to reduce what Miss B owed it.
Its worth saying here, Naylors wasnt clear in explaining what loans this offer applied to or
how the redress was calculated. Unhappy with this response, Miss B referred the complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator. He said initially he wasnt going to
consider loans 5 and 6 because as far as he was aware, Naylors had made an offer to settle
those loans. The adjudicator then concluded Naylors had made a reasonable decision to
provide loans 1  4.
Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. She initially said that she hadnt
received any contact from Naylors about an offer. Later on, Miss B explained:
Naylors could see that she was taking other home collected loans from other
suppliers.
Miss B was also paying a number of other creditors including a rent to buy provider
and a credit union.
Miss B was part of a family of five on benefits  which the agent knew about.
Naylors agent knew that each time a loan was repaid Miss B would be contacting
them again to borrow as repaying the loans left her with very little to live on.
The complaint was then passed to me. I then issued my provisional decision explaining the 
reasons why I was intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint in part about loan 4. A copy of the 
provisional findings follows this in smaller type size and forms part of this final decision.
Both Miss B and Naylors were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event no later than 14 March 2023.
Miss B responded to say she accepted the findings of the provisional decision. 
Naylors didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Naylors had to assess the lending to check if Miss B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Naylorss checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss
Bs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Naylors should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
Naylors was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss B was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Bs complaint.Loan 1
For this loan, Naylors knew that Miss B lived with her partner, was a tenant and wasnt
working at that time. The consequence of this was that Miss Bs only income was likely from
benefits  which is what she has told us. A customer being on benefits isnt an automatic bar
to being approved for credit  but it ought to have put Naylors on notice that Miss B was on a
fixed, modest income that was to support her whole family.
As part of her application, Miss B declared a monthly income of around £1,275  which was
made up of benefits. She also declared monthly outgoings of £743 leaving a monthly
disposable income of £532. Based on the income and expenditure form completed by
Naylors it seems to have calculated weekly disposable income of around £122.10. This was
more than sufficient for Naylors to believe that Miss B could afford the weekly repayment of
£6.
It is worth noting here that Naylors was on notice, that Miss B had other credit as she
declared she had loan repayments of £20 per month. But as no credit search was carried out
it wouldnt have details of these loans. In any event, Naylors wasnt required to do a credit
search so the fact one wasnt carried out isnt enough of a reason to uphold this loan.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Naylors to have
relied on the information Miss B provided about her income and expenditure figures which
showed she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt
anything else to suggest that Miss B was having financial difficulties or that the loan
repayments would be unsustainable for her.
Loan 2
This loan was approved while loan 1 was still running so Miss Bs weekly commitment to
Naylors had increased to £12 per week. The same sort of checks were completed for this
loan as loan 1. Miss B declared the same income for this loan as she had for loan 1, which
wasnt surprising.
However, Miss Bs outgoings were significantly different. This time her monthly outgoings
were declared as being £447, this is a significant drop even though this loan was only
advanced a little under two months after the first loan. This time, Naylors noted Miss Bs
commitment for the first loan but her total loan repayment were now noted as £40 per month
 which was double what she declared for loan 1. For this loan, Miss B also now declared
that she didnt have any rent or council tax payments.
So, although this was a loan for a similar value, Naylors was on notice that her overall loan
repayments  to it and other creditors had increased and she was now not paying rent or
council tax  but no notes of explanation appear to have been taken by Naylors at the time.
However, I do have to consider that this loan was still for a relativity modest sum, Miss B
hadnt experienced any repayment problems to date on loan one and even if I had used the
expenditure figures Miss B provided to Naylors for the first loan  loan 2 still wouldve looked
affordable.
Therefore, while I have some concerns about the information Miss B had provided, Im still
minded to conclude that it was reasonable for Naylors to have approved this loan.
Loan 3
Miss B had repaid loan 1 without any obvious difficulties and returned on the same day that
loan was repaid for loan 3. This time, Miss B asked for more money  with her outstanding
commitment for loan 2  her weekly repayments were £18.
Miss B declared a broadly similar income for this loan as she had for previous loans. Heroutgoings against were marginally different. She declared monthly outgoings of £411 
which included her repayment to Naylors for loan 2. This time, however, Miss B declared
that she did have council tax payments at £20 per month.
Loan repayments have also been recorded  presumably for loans for other companies.
However, these have been recorded that Miss B wasnt responsible for the payments and
the cost has been noted as £50  it isnt clear whether this is per week or per month.
I know Miss B has told us about her partner and her familys situation that its likely she was
paying those loan repayments. But as Naylors didnt do a credit search (and wasnt required
to do one) it wouldnt have known at this point whether Miss B was or wasnt responsible for
these other loan payments.
In addition, the loan still looked affordable, based on the checks that had been carried out.
Therefore, like loans 1 and 2, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint about this loan.
Loan 4
So far, Miss B didnt appear to have had any obvious repayment problems servicing her
previous loans. Loan 3 was still outstanding when this loan was approved  which further
increased Miss Bs weekly commitment to £24. This was now her largest weekly
commitment. In addition, this was now the second time a loan had been repaid and then a
new loan taken on the same day.
Miss Bs overall income had dropped slightly for this loan, with her benefit payments and a
contribution from her partner meant a total of just over £1,000 per month.
Her total monthly outgoings were around £152. Mainly because all payments for council tax
and housekeeping had been marked as zero  as the application had noted that
Miss B DoesntPay. This time however, £50 payments for other loans were marked as
being the responsibility of Miss B.
I dont think Naylors carried out a proportionate check before this loan was approved. I say
this because the drop in income, the significant drop in living costs, her pattern of borrowing
and the income and expenditure forms appear to be inconsistent as to whether Miss B does
or doesnt have other loans. And there was a possibility that Miss B had other lending that
needed to be more fully considered.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Bs actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Miss Bs full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Naylors mightve needed to consider about Miss Bs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Naylors carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Miss B couldnt afford it.
Miss B has supplied screen shots of her credit file from around the time this loan was
approved and so I dont think its unreasonable to consider these as it provides an overview
of what Miss Bs actual financial position was at the time.
The credit file shows that in October 2019, so only a few months before this loan she had
defaulted on two credit accounts  one unsecured loan and one mail order account with the
defaulted balances totalling around £1,000. This to me is a clear sign that Miss B was
already struggling to manage the financial commitments she had because ultimately, she
couldnt keep up with her existing credit commitments which led to two accounts defaulting.
This information wouldve been apparent to Naylors had it carried out a proportionate check
and knowing this I dont think it wouldve lent to Miss B because it was clear she was havingcurrent and immediate financial difficulties.
Loans 5 and 6
In the FRL Naylors made an offer to pay compensation for what I believe was the interest
levied on these loans  at the time Naylors says this came to £248. However, it isnt
clear from this offer whether any adjustments to Miss Bs credit file would be made.
After the complaint was passed for a decision, I made further enquiries with Naylors about
the offer it had made in the FRL. Having done so, Naylors reviewed what it previously
offered, and it said it would add 8% simple interest  and then deduct tax at the standard
rate. This amount, added to the offer it made in the FRL equates to £263.87. Naylors also
confirmed, this offer related to the interest fees and charges for these two loans. Although,
Naylors didnt mention it again, I understand as there is an outstanding balance this will be
used to reduce what Miss B owes.
So, it seems to me, that Naylors accepts loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have been provided, and it
has now made an offer to cover the interest that has been paid as well as adding 8% simple
interest. I consider this offer to be broadly fair and reasonable because it puts Miss B as far
as possible, back into the position she wouldve been in had the loans not been granted.
Given what Naylors has said, these loans no longer appear to be in dispute, so I dont need
to make a finding on whether these loans ought to have been lent.
However, the Financial Ombudsman Service  following our standard approach to redress
would expect there to be some adjustments to the credit file. Ive seen nothing in this case
that suggests the standard redress approach shouldnt be applied here. Therefore, for
completeness, Ive outlined what Naylors needs to do which is broadly in line with what it has
said it would already pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything new for me to consider and Miss B accepted the findings of 
the provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from what I previously concluded. 
I still think Naylors made a reasonable decision to grant loans 1  3. However, I do think 
further checks ought to have been carried out before loan 4 was advanced and had those 
further checks been conducted by Naylors it wouldnt have advanced loan 4 to Miss B. 
Naylors had already accepted something went wrong with loans 5 and 6 were granted and 
had made an offer of compensation. 
Ive therefore outlined below what Naylors needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Naylors should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss B from loan 4 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Naylors liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Naylors shouldnt have given Miss B loans 4 - 6. If Naylors has sold the outstanding debts it
should buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Naylors is not 
able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve
the results outlined below.
A. Naylors should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B. Naylors should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Naylors should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss B as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss B 
having made overpayments then Naylors should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. It should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Naylors should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss B.
E. Naylors should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 4, 5 and 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Naylors to deduct tax from this interest. Naylors should
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Bs 
complaint in part.
NAYLORS FINANCE LIMITED should put things right for Miss B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman