DRN-3950928
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with his 
claim for accidental damage to his sofa. Mr O also complains about how RSA dealt with his 
complaint about the service he received. 
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr O made a claim on his insurance policy for accidental damage to his leather corner sofa 
in February 2022. 
Mr O was asked to take photographs of the damage and send them to RSA. Mr O says he 
did this but was told the damage was difficult to see. And so a repair technician would need 
to go out to inspect the damage. 
Mr O didnt agree that it was difficult to see the damage and offered to send photographs 
from different angles. But he says RSA declined this. 
Mr O he was offered an appointment for the technician to attend on a day which he had 
expressly told RSA he was unable to accommodate. The date was also over a month away 
which Mr O felt was too long to wait. And so he complained. Mr O says the handling of the 
claim stopped until the conclusion of his complaint. 
Mr O says he waited for a response to his complaint but it kept getting pushed back. By June 
Mr O arranged to have his sofa removed from his property as he felt he had held onto it for 
long enough. 
Mr O says he had to endure having damaged furniture in his home for months which meant 
he was unable to invite people over due to its condition. He also says he made countless 
calls and emails trying to resolve the matter but didnt receive a response. 
RSA said it required the sofa to be inspected by its expert to assess whether a repair was 
possible, or whether it would need to be replaced. RSA said its technicians were only 
available to carry out an inspection from Monday to Friday; and this was outside its control. 
RSA apologised for the delay in dealing with Mr Os complaint and paid him £25 by way of 
compensation. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with RSAs response and so referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him. She said RSA had adhered to the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She said RSA needed to assess whether the sofa could be repaired 
or whether it would need to be replaced, and whilst she could understand this was an 
inconvenience for Mr O, it was reasonable for RSA to request this. And so the complaint 
wasnt upheld. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators outcome. He said his claim was put on hold whilst 
the complaint was dealt with, and that he didnt refuse to allow the technicians to view the 
sofa. And so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate Mr O 
has been through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer he wanted. So I will explain 
my decision below. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant to this. If I havent commented on any 
specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Its a basic principle of insurance that it is for the claimant to establish their claim. This 
means Mr O has to provide sufficient information and evidence to prove, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the sofa insured under the policy was damaged in the way it was claimed. 
Mr O reported the sofa was damaged accidentally with hair products. And so RSA has the 
right to validate that claim. Unfortunately a mutually suitable appointment couldnt be agreed. 
I know Mr O felt four weeks was too long to wait for an initial appointment and wanted the 
matter dealt with more quickly. But in doing so RSA werent able to validate the claim and 
progress the repair or replacement of the sofa. 
Mr O has said the claim was put on hold while the complaint was being considered. But RSA 
have denied thats the case. It seems the claim was on hold while an appointment for the 
assessor to validate the claim was awaited. I know Mr O said the initial appointment offered 
wasnt suitable. In the event of a claim its likely that some level of inconvenience will be 
experienced. And its unfortunate that an appointment couldnt be arranged.
I have seen the customer notes provided by RSA and there were a number of occasions 
where an appointment was discussed, or the call handler offered to contact the assessor to 
check availability for an appointment but Mr O refused. I know Mr O was frustrated by the 
handling of the claim but RSA did try and make a suitable appointment for him. 
I cant say RSA did anything wrong here since it needed to validate the claim to confirm the 
damage to the sofa was covered by the policy. Mr O provided RSA with photographs of the 
damage to the sofa but these werent sufficient for RSAs purposes; it made it difficult for 
RSA to understand whether the sofa could be repaired or needed to be replaced. 
Ive considered what happened here and I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably. As it is 
only obliged to pay for claim related costs it is reasonable and usual that it will need to 
validate the work that is to be completed to make sure this meets its liability and doesnt 
exceed it. And it was unable to do this effectively because it wasnt able to inspect the sofa. 
If Mr O wanted RSA to deal with his claim he needed to allow RSA to inspect the damage, 
since its for him to evidence the claim. As he hasnt done this, I dont think RSA has acted 
unfairly. 
Mr O has now disposed of the damaged sofa, but had he allowed RSA to inspect the 
damage I would have expected RSA to do so. But up until this point I dont consider RSAs actions with regard to the claim to be unfair or unreasonable. I therefore wont ask it to take 
any further action in this regard. 
Complaints handling
Much of Mr Os complaint relates to RSAs handling of his complaint and the length of time it 
took to get a response. And when the response was received it didnt resolve his complaint. 
This service cannot consider every complaint thats referred. In considering this matter Im 
bound by the rules that apply to this service. I can only consider a complaint arising from a 
regulated activity. The complaint about the accidental damage insurance claim meets the 
criterion. But I cant consider a complaint that is about the length of time taken to deal with 
the complaint because its not a regulated activity in its own right. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr O who has clearly been through a 
difficult and frustrating time. But in order for me to compel RSA to pay the claim I need to be 
able to say it did something wrong or unreasonable, and I cant say that here on the 
evidence. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman