DRN-3450930
The complaint
Miss K, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday loans, lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Everyday Lending approved Miss K for one loan (later she took a loan jointly with a  family 
member but that is not being considered here). It was for £1,500 (total to pay £3,232.08) 
repayable over 24 months and the monthly repayment was £134.67. It was approved for her 
in October 2020.
Everyday Lending responded to her complaint sent to it on 2 June 2021 with its final 
response letter in July 2021. It did not uphold her complaint and this was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending should 
put things right for Miss K. Everyday Lending did not agree and the unresolved complaint 
was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Everyday Lending completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss K would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks 
have shown that Miss K wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Everyday Lending did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss K and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair 
compensation. The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Ks ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss K. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss K undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
I have seen that Everyday Lending obtained information from Miss K, including details of her 
Universal Credit payments, and that her rent (most of it) was paid by her Universal Credit 
and sent directly to her landlord. Everyday Lending obtained details of her other credit 
commitments and it reviewed some bank statements for the period leading up to the October 
2020 loan approval. So, I must conclude that Everyday Lending did checks which were 
proportionate to the loan amount being applied for and that Miss K was a new customer to it. 
However, reading all that Everyday had at the time when making the lending decision, I think 
it has either missed some important information or it has not factored it in correctly. 
Miss K was already on a low income, and her main source of income was Universal Credit 
which was about £804 each month. The job Miss K told Everyday Lending about has been 
described to us by her representative as a casual job and sounds like it was not a formal 
employment arrangement. So, anything from that ought to have been discounted as it did 
not sound to be permanent or a reliable source.
Miss Ks bank statements sent to Everyday Lending, copies of which have been provided for 
me, show that her daughter was giving her money  about a £100 quite regularly. These 
statements also show Miss K had obtained money from a hardship fund on 9 September 
2020. It looks like an Everyday representative had written that phrase onto the statement as 
an explanation. So, from that annotation I gather the Everyday representative likely 
discussed this with Miss K. 
Reviewing the Universal Credit documentation, its clear to read that Miss K had and already 
received an advance from the Universal Credit payments which she was now having to pay 
back  it was being deducted. 
And a crisis fund was being paid back by her and deducted from her Universal Credit too. 
These deductions had already been factored into the figures she was receiving from the 
Universal Credit, and the figures Everyday Lending was using in its income and expenditure calculations.  And my point is not that the figures would alter, but these details showed that 
Everyday Lending had seen evidence of where Miss K had needed additional financial 
assistance  the hardship fund, crisis loan and the advance Universal Credit funds, all of 
which needed to be repaid. It demonstrates to me a history of being very short of money. 
Added to these points, Miss Ks bank statements seen by Everyday Lending at the time, 
show that just before she applied for this loan she had received a home-credit loan of £400 
which credited her bank account 7 September 2020. Everyday Lending had noted that this 
was a £50 a month repayment but I have noted from her bank statements this was £50 
every two weeks  so more like a £100 a month.
Miss K had several buy now pay later accounts and even if she had used the Everyday 
Lending capital to pay those down, Miss K would have been left with a relatively tight budget 
 meaning very little left over. Everyday Lending had calculated that monthly left over figure 
to have been around £150 but factoring the £50 a fortnight payable to the home credit 
company into its income and expenditure analysis correctly Miss K would have had about 
£100 a month as left over money. I dont think that this was a broad enough margin when 
Miss K had young children and was a single mother. 
So  considering the likely impact of a long term, high cost loan then I think Everyday 
Lending ought to have realised that this was not the right course of action for it to lend to 
Miss K in her circumstances in October 2020. 
I uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Putting things right
Everyday Lending shouldnt have given Miss K this loan. I know that this loan was paid off in 
April 2021 when Miss K took the second joint loan with another family member. To settle 
Miss Ks complaint, Im recommending Everyday Lending does the following.
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards interest, fees, and 
charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss K which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay any remaining refund to Miss K. 
D) Remove any adverse payment information recorded on Miss Ks credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday Lending 
should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman