DRN-4093917
The complaint
Mr V complains about the treatment he received from Black Horse Limited (BHL) in relation 
to a hire purchase agreement. Mr V said BHL failed to support him as a vulnerable customer 
who was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr V acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BHL. 
The cash price of the car was £15,299. The total amount financed on the agreement was 
£15,299 payable over 60 monthly repayments of £343.91. 
From June 2018 Mr V started experiencing arrears on the agreement. In December 2018 Mr 
V explained that he was involved in an accident which affected his ability to work. Mr V said 
he was also considered as vulnerable. Mr V said he informed BHL of his circumstances and 
asked that adjustments be made, so he could continue making his repayments.
In January 2022 Mr V complained to BHL because he didnt think they were treating him as 
they should have been, in consideration of his vulnerability. Mr V said he wasnt provided 
with the appropriate support when he needed it. Mr V also complained about the contact he 
received in relation to the arrears on his agreement, and what had been recorded on his 
credit file. 
To resolve matters BHL agreed to waive the outstanding balance on the agreement, pay Mr 
V £300 in compensation and amend his credit file to show that an arrangement to pay was in 
place. 
Unhappy with their decision, Mr V brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having considered all the information on file, our investigator recommended that Mr Vs 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator felt BHL had correctly reported payment 
information to the credit reference agencies, had treated Mr V with forbearance and due 
consideration and had made adjustments where necessary to accommodate his 
vulnerabilities. Our investigator acknowledged that BHL could have treated Mr V better 
during some phone conversations, however he felt the compensation offered was 
satisfactory.
Mr V accepted our investigators view in the most part, however he explained that he doesnt 
believe the compensation offered by BHL is enough to recognise the frustration hes 
experienced and the time he took to recover. So, Mr V has asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Having reviewed all the information provided, Ive considered the following points to be the 
main issues raised by Mr V:
1. Following the road traffic accidents and the resultant impact on his health, BHL didnt 
provide the necessary support he needed during his financial difficulties 
2. BHL wouldnt allow Mr V to extend his agreement despite maintaining his monthly 
repayments
3. BHL gave no regard for his vulnerable position 
4. BHL required Mr V to contact them monthly to make his repayments, and every three 
months to review his financial position, which gave him severe anxiety and stress
The complaint points raised by Mr V has been addressed by BHL in their final response. Our 
investigator also addressed each of them in their view and concluded that BHL didnt need to 
do anything more.
BHL issued a response to Mr V in January 2023 which addressed a number of different 
issues raised. As part of that response, they concluded that theyd waive the remaining 
balance on Mr Vs agreement and close it. They also arranged for Mr Vs credit file to be 
updated to show an arrangement flag to be added from October 2018. And to recognise the 
instances where they couldve provided Mr V with a better service experience, they agreed 
to pay him £300 in compensation.
In his phone call to us in April 2023, Mr V said When BHL wrote off the remaining balance 
they didnt admit to anything, Mr V said he believed that BHL were hoping that our service 
would stop looking into his complaint. Mr V also wasnt happy that BHL failed to ask for his 
permission to settle the agreement. He believed the issues were being swept under the rug 
and that BHL didnt care. Mr V said he wanted BHL to admit their mistake and for no one 
else to be treated like he was. 
During the phone call with our investigator, Mr V said that he accepted that our investigators 
view was correct, but that he remained unhappy with how BHL treated him when he was at a 
low point mentally. He felt BHL gave no consideration of his vulnerability. Mr V said he was 
pushed too hard by BHL at that point.
I acknowledge Mr V has said BHL didnt consult him when they decided to close the 
agreement in resolution of his complaint, however in the circumstances I dont think BHL 
were acting unreasonably by doing so. The repayment of the finance agreement was the 
source of Mr Vs complaint, because he was having difficulties in doing so and expected 
more support from BHL than he received. By removing the agreement and the related 
balance, I dont see that BHL were acting unfairly. BHL effectively removed the source of the 
issue and compensated Mr V with the amount outstanding despite Mr V owing it to BHL. So 
Im satisfied that BHLs resolution was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Having said that, from the phone call with our investigator, I think its fair to say that Mr Vs 
concerns has evolved from the resolution of his payment difficulties to how he was treated 
by BHL, and that other consumers are at risk of experiencing the same situation that he has.  
So, Ive focused the remainder of my decision on that part of Mr Vs complaint. 
In their Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) says: we want vulnerable consumers to experience outcomes as 
good as those for other consumers and receive consistently fair treatment across the firms 
and sectors we regulate. 
It goes on to say: The level of care that is appropriate for vulnerable consumers may be 
different from that for others and firms should take particular care to ensure they are treated 
fairly
Mr V said that he explained his circumstances to BHL, and BHL confirmed this in their final 
response. The FCA doesnt prescribe in detail what actions a firm should take in relation to 
specific vulnerabilities, nor can I set out the precise actions that I think BHL should have 
taken when dealing with Mr V. In the circumstances however, Ive considered whether BHL 
made a reasonable effort to ensure Mr V experienced an outcome as good as if he didnt 
have a vulnerability.
In addition, the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the FCA 
handbook, says that a business must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5 provides some examples which include, 
suspending, reducing or waiving interest or charges, allowing payment deferrals or accepting 
token payments.
BHL had a responsibility to ensure the payment arrangements were affordable whilst at the 
same time ensuring Mr V was afforded the same opportunities as non-vulnerable 
consumers. Mr V said BHL pushed him to a critically unsafe psychological point. However, 
Im not persuaded BHL were responsible for Mr Vs mental health. I think its more likely that 
it was a result of the physical trauma he experienced after the road accident and subsequent 
illnesses, as confirmed and described in a letter provided by a medical expert.  
BHLs role in all of this was to ensure Mr V was given the appropriate support with repaying 
his debt with them. From the system notes provided I can see that a number of payment 
arrangements were put in place to support Mr V, I can also see that regular reviews were 
carried out with Mr V in order to assess his ability to maintain a repayment plan. 
I acknowledge Mr V didnt find some of the support offered by BHL as helpful, and I can see 
that BHL amended their review period from three months to six months to accommodate a 
reduce level of contact with him. I think BHLs actions were proportionate and reasonable 
here. I dont think BHLs approach could be reasonably considered as pressurised, rather I 
think it was likely to be a responsible approach to ensure the affordability was in place for Mr 
V. 
All things considered, Im satisfied BHL treated Mr V fairly in light of his vulnerability, and 
demonstrated forbearance by agreeing to payment arrangements and reviewing Mr Vs 
financial situation on a regular basis.
I acknowledge Mr Vs strength of feelings, particularly in consideration of how he said BHL 
made him feel, and that they need to do more to ensure other consumers do not have the 
same experience as he did.Were not the regulator of BHL, so I cant comment on their policies or tell them how to run 
their business, I can consider whether theyve acted fairly when dealing with Mr V in relation 
to the services provided as part of the finance agreement.
In the circumstances, I think the remedial action taken by BHL was more than what I would 
have expected in the circumstances of this complaint. I acknowledge Mr V said he hadnt 
asked them to waive the balance, and that he was willing to continue paying for it; however, 
in resolution of the issues experienced by Mr V I think BHLs decision to pay compensation 
in addition to waiving the outstanding balance and amend his credit file are fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking them to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint about Black Horse Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman