DRN-3460055
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not complete a payment he instructed it to 
make. He says that, as a result, he had to pay a £2,000 penalty. 
What happened
On 9 February 2021 Mr R attempted to make an online payment of £20,000 to a money 
transfer service, X. HSBCs systems flagged the payment as unusual and it was held for a 
security check. At the time, Mr R was in India, so  because of the time difference  no 
attempt was made to call him to verify the payment. Because it had not verified the payment, 
HSBC reversed it. 
On 12 February, X told Mr R that the payment had not been received. He contacted HSBC 
using its live chat facility and was told that the payment had been cancelled. The bank says 
that it sent Mr R a letter telling him that the payment had not been made, but Mr R says he 
received no such notification.  
Mr R says that he was charged the equivalent of £2,000 because the payment was not 
made on time. He has provided a copy of an invoice from a jeweller in India as evidence of 
that. He seeks reimbursement of that penalty from HSBC. The bank paid him £30 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which he was put and has since offered a further £100. 
Mr R did not think that offer went far enough and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but thought the banks offer was 
fair. Mr R did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC says that its fraud detection systems identified the payment as unusual, but that it 
was unable to make further checks at the time. In my view that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Banks are expected to take steps to reduce the risk of fraud, and the use of 
automatic fraud detection systems is one way to do that. It was also reasonable not to call 
Mr R at an unsocial hour.  
HSBC says that Mr R would have seen a disclaimer when the payment was made that it 
might be subject to additional fraud checks. I note as well that the account terms published 
on HSBCs website include:
Well make a payment from your account if we can, but there are some reasons we may not 
be able to .
We reasonably believe that certain other things have happened.
Theres been a breach of security or misuse of your account, security details or a 
payment device
The nature of the payment triggered a security warning. In my view, therefore, the bank did 
reasonably believe that there had been a security breach or that someone other than Mr R 
was trying to use his account. It was therefore within its rights to delay the payment until it 
could be checked or, if it could not be checked (as was the case here), to decline it. 
Mr R says that HSBC should have contacted him when the payment was not made. It says 
it wrote to him, although Mr R disputes that. He did however know by 12 February that the 
payment had not been made. I think it unlikely that a letter would have reached Mr R before 
that date in any event. 
I can see why Mr R thinks HSBC should have tried to contact him by other means, such as 
by email or telephone. He would have been able to see from his online banking however 
that the payment had not been made. And if, as Mr R says, he was likely to incur a penalty if 
it was not made on time, I might have expected him to check the position. 
However, even if I took the view that HSBC should not have stopped the payment or that it 
should have contacted Mr R sooner than it did, it does not follow that it should reimburse 
him for the penalty he says he paid. 
Where a party breaches a contract, it is generally only liable to the other party for losses 
which are caused by the breach and which are a reasonably foreseeable consequence of it. 
Mr R has provided an invoice from a jeweller for Rs200,000 for Delayed Payment 
Charges. I do not believe that it would have been reasonably foreseeable to HSBC that, if it 
wrongly blocked a payment to a money transfer business, Mr R would have to pay a penalty 
of 10% of that payment to a party which was not the immediate beneficiary of that payment. 
That position is reflected in the account terms, which say that HSBC is not responsible for 
anything that it could not predict or which is not normal. 
Mr R has not shown that the jeweller was in fact entitled to make a charge or that he has 
paid it. Given my findings above, however, it is not necessary for me to explore that any 
further.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Rs complaint. I simply leave it to him to decide whether to 
accept the banks offer of a further £100  if it is still available for acceptance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman