DRN-2645113
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) (formerly Leeds Permanent 
Building Society), mis-sold them a life assurance policy. All references to Halifax will include 
Leeds Permanent Building Society.
What happened
In 1991 Mrs and Mr B took out a joint life assurance policy which provided cover in the event 
of either death with a sum assured of £5,000. The policy was sold alongside a secured loan 
for the same amount and ran for the same term of six years. Mrs and Mr B said they were 
told by Halifax that if they didnt take out the cover they wouldnt be accepted for the loan. 
Mrs and Mr B complained to Halifax in 2019. They said they felt forced into taking out the life 
cover they didnt need or want. They wanted a refund of the monthly premiums of £12 they 
paid over six years.
Halifax said it no longer had any records relating to the policy. But it acknowledged the 
documents provided by Mrs and Mr B showed that life cover was taken out alongside their 
secured loan. Halifax was unable to provide any evidence about the sale of the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she didnt think there 
was sufficient information to show Halifax had mis-sold the policy to Mrs and Mr B. 
Mrs and Mr B disagreed. They said they shouldnt be disadvantaged by Halifax no longer 
having any records relating to the sale. And they maintained Halifax hadnt told them the 
policy was optional. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see theres been some confusion over which business sold the policy. Looking at the 
documentary evidence, in particular, the Homeowners Loan Repayment Insurance 
Certificate (the insurance certificate), Im satisfied Halifax (formerly Leeds Permanent 
Building Society) is responsible for the sale of this life policy. I know there is another life 
policy but this is the subject matter of a separate complaint and wont be discussed here.
Halifax says it no longer has any information about the policy. I dont think this is unusual or 
surprising given the sale took place 30 years ago and the policy expired almost 25 years 
ago. Financial businesses arent expected to hold records for more than six years. So I dont 
think Halifax have done anything wrong by not retaining the documents relating to the sale 
and/ or the policy. However, Mrs and Mr B have provided relevant documents. And whilst I 
take on board what they say about being disadvantaged by Halifax not retaining its records, 
Im satisfied Ive sufficient information to reach a decision on a balance of probabilities  in 
other words, on what I think is more likely than not to have happened in light of the available 
evidence.
Mrs and Mr B say they remember being told by Halifax that the policy was compulsory part 
of the lending when in fact, it was not. Whilst Ive taken account of what Mrs and Mr B have 
said and it does form part of the evidence Ive considered, given 30 years has passed since 
the sale, I need to balance theyre submissions with the documentary evidence available 
from the time of the sale. Amongst other things, the insurance certificate had boxes to tick 
under Cover application and said, tick box as required. There were two boxes that could 
be ticked under this section which were for Life cover and/ or Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment cover. The only box that was ticked in this section was for life cover. 
Looking at the insurance certificate, on balance, I think this shows life cover was optional. I 
say this because the box only needed to be ticked for cover as required. Therefore, I think 
its more likely than not that if Mrs and Mr B decided they didnt want life cover, they couldve 
chosen not to have it. I also note the loan agreement only required security against Mrs and 
Mr Bs residential property and from what I can see, there was no other lending condition. 
All in all, I think the evidence supports the conclusion that it was likely Mrs and Mr B were 
told the policy was optional rather than something they needed to have. I appreciate they 
say Halifax told them something different during the sales process. But overall, I think the 
insurance certificate and loan agreement made it reasonably clear to them that life cover 
was optional. So I cant fairly conclude Halifax mis-sold the life policy on this basis. Ill now 
consider suitability.
As noted, the policy was taken out to provide cover for a secured loan of £5,000. It provided 
protection for Mrs and Mr B if one of them were to die. So as this would have helped with the 
loss of a household income, particularly as the loan was secured against their home which 
couldve been at risk if the loan repayments could not be made, I think the policy was 
suitable. I appreciate Mrs and Mr B said they had other bills to pay, but as Ive concluded the 
policy was optional, if it wasnt a priority for them they had the choice to not take out the 
cover or to cancel it.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs and Mr B will be disappointed with this 
outcome, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman