DRN-3568112
The complaint
Mr O complains about Standard Life Assurance Limiteds (Standard Life) role in the delay to 
the transfer of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to a new platform. He says the 
delay meant his fund dropped by over £100,000 for which he would like to be reimbursed.  
What happened
Because Mr O has made complaints about the main three parties involved here Ive decided 
to refer to them all by name at various points in each complaint to better explain the 
sequence of events. This decision is solely to provide an outcome for the complaint against 
Standard Life.
Mr O had held an existing SIPP with Standard Life since 2015, although hed held a personal 
pension with it since 1984. Mr O had become disappointed with the SIPPs performance and 
so in early 2020 he met with Magus to discuss his retirement planning options  which were 
summarised in a report issued to Mr O on 31 January 2020. Magus recommended that Mr O 
transferred his existing SIPP to a new pension platform and invested in its own model 
portfolio containing 60% equities and 40% fixed interest investments  which Mr O accepted. 
So on 5 February 2020 Magus submitted Mr Os transfer request to the new platform. An 
accompanying covering letter said It is my wish to transfer my pension fund held within the 
above numbered SIPP to (the new platform). Please could you therefore authorise Aberdeen 
Standard Capital to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to cash to be returned to 
yourselves in anticipation of the transfer. Please can all of the target return portfolio also be 
sold down, wherever possible, and the cash retuned to yourselves. The letter also 
requested that a suspended fund within the SIPP be re-registered to the new platform and 
that any queries should be directed to Magus.
On 10 February a transfer request pack was sent to Standard Life by the new platform and 
this was acknowledged as being received on 13 February 2020. At this time the SIPP was 
valued at £913,440.
Standard Life says the new platform wanted the SEDOL codes of each fund to be included 
in a valuation which was to be returned to the platform. So, on 28 February 2020 Standard 
Life requested this information from the fund manager, Aberdeen Standard Capital (ASC), 
which was provided on 2 March 2020. 
Because Mr O had now discovered that the transfer hadnt taken place he asked Magus to 
chase up matters and following a direct progress update request to ASAC, it was confirmed 
that the funds could now be sold.
But ASC required further confirmation from Magus that the transfer should proceed, as the 
value of the SIPP had fallen to £843,574.55. Magus wasnt prepared to provide that 
confirmation.
By 23 March 2020 Magus said its position remained unchanged from the time of its original 
request and it was agreed that the SIPP funds would be sold. By 1 April 2020 the funds had 
mainly been realised to a total of £789,492.43. Further cash from sales was received during 
the following week. An application was then made to purchase the new funds which 
completed on 15 April 2020 when the in-specie part of the transfer began. This completed on 
29 April 2020 and by 21 May 2020 the remaining funds were transferred, and the SIPP was 
closed  with a final transfer value of £803,264.75. 
But as Mr O had expected the transfer to complete by the original proposed date of 
13 February 2020  when his plan was valued at £913,440, he calculated that hed lost over 
£110,000 and complained to his adviser who then complained to the other two parties 
involved.  
Standard Life said it had noted Mr Os instruction to sell but had acted on the new platforms 
request for further information because its usual process was to first ensure there were no 
other assets that couldnt be sold due to being suspended or in a non-tradeable position. It 
said it followed its process by contacting ASC in this case but before the request was 
completed Magus had contacted ASC directly and the matter progressed between those two 
parties  so Standard Life couldnt be held responsible for any delays during that time. 
 
Mr O believed he had lost out financially because of the delay through no fault of his own so 
he brought complaints about all the parties involved to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter relating to Standard Life and said this wasnt 
a complaint we should uphold. She said that Standard Life had caused one or two delays, 
both in the time it took to act upon Mr Os initial request and when it forwarded the request to 
ASC. But as she had been provided with a calculation that showed Mr Os SIPP would be 
worth over £13,000 less today if the transfer had occurred on 13 February 2020, she 
decided Mr O had gained from the delay and it would be unfair to revise his position so that 
he was now worse off financially.  
Mr O didnt agree. He said there was no correlation between the original SIPP funds and the 
new ones  so he didnt think it was fair to add a value to the funds after the transfer had 
occurred. He remained of the view that the amount of funds transferred was over £110,000 
less than should have been transferred and that would have been the basis on which to 
calculate the growth on the new funds. 
The investigator remained of the view that Mr O hadnt suffered a loss. Mr O then asked for 
his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 31 May 2022. In that decision I said Mr Os 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, I made the following points in support of my 
decision:
The main part of Mr Os complaint was that he said his instruction to sell most of the 
assets in his SIPP was quite clear in his covering letter of 5 February 2020. He 
thought the request to encash should have been carried out as soon as it was 
received by Standard Life.
I thought the matter was finely balanced and so I first looked at the terms and 
conditions of the SIPP. But this wasnt clear on the matter. So I went on to look at the 
transfer request pack including the letter from Mr O which instructed the sale of his 
assets.
I could understand why Standard Life arranged to get the information the new 
platform provider requested about the funds in the SIPP, but I thought this applied to 
the in specie transfer request  not to Mr Os request to encash the majority of his 
assets.I didnt think it was logical to require that information for funds that were to be sold, so 
I thought Standard Life ought to have started the process of arranging for those funds 
to be sold at the earliest opportunity after it received the instruction.
I was conscious of Standard Lifes service standards and hadnt seen any reason 
why it should have fast tracked the request. So I thought it was reasonable for 
Standard Life to have made the request to sell by 27 February 2020.
But thereafter Standard Life wasnt involved in the selling process, so I didnt think it 
was responsible for any later delays in encashing Mr Os assets.
I said Standard Life should calculate the position Mr O would have been in had the 
overall transaction happened 25 days earlier  but I said Standard Life was only 
responsible for 12 days of any delay in selling the assets and should allow for that in 
the calculation.
The following is taken directly from the relevant section within the provisional decision:
The transfer request
On 5 February 2020 Magus sent a transfer request to the new platform with a covering letter
from Mr O, which said that It is my wish to transfer my pension fund held within the above
numbered SIPP to (the new platform). Please could you therefore authorise Aberdeen
Standard Capital to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to cash to be returned to
yourselves in anticipation of the transfer.
Ive seen a copy of this letter which the new platform sent to Standard Life  and was
acknowledged as being received on 13 February 2020, along with a copy of the transfer
request. This constituted the pack which has previously been referred to.
And the crux of this complaint is that Magus and Mr O have said that when the request was
received by Standard Life the saleable assets should have been sold to cash immediately as
its instructions were quite clear. Whereas Standard Life has said that the new platform
requested further information about the assets and it simply followed its usual process and
rules around transfers before selling the funds and processing the transfer  which did
include some re registration of certain funds.
I think this matter  which is central to the complaint  is extremely finely balanced. So in the
first instance Ive looked carefully at Standard Lifes terms and conditions for its SIPPs. But
Im not persuaded that this matter is covered clearly, and while there is reference to buying
and selling of funds and to transfers, I havent seen anything which specifically relates to this
matter because the only reference Ive found to this kind of situation says, we do however
need time to make sure that we comply with the requirements on transfers in the rules. And
we cant make a transfer until weve sold the assets that we need to sell to provide the
transfer payments. This would only imply that assets need to be sold before transferring but
theres no suggestion that further checks about saleability would need to be made first.
So Ive gone on to look at the information the new platform sent to Standard Life as part of
the transfer request pack. The first page of the letter from the platform does state, please
find attached a request to transfer the above clients personal pension from you to (the new
platform). Before processing the transfer request please arrange for a valuation with
ISN/SEDOL codes to be sent to the following address So I can understand why Standard
Life would have arranged for that information to be obtained. It then had to contact ASC who
managed the SIPP, to get the SEDOL codes before it began the transfer process.But the letter only refers to the transfer request and I can understand that it would be logical
to confirm that the funds which werent to be sold were acceptable to the new platform and
also to get an idea of the total transfer value to compare with Mr Os idea of a valuation.
However, there would be no logical reason for the platform to require the codes of the assets
that had been sold to cash as it wouldnt have needed to determine if they were acceptable
as investments.
So it would seem to me that Mr Os specific request to sell all of one of his portfolios and
everything that it was possible to sell in the other portfolio should have been carried out by
Standard Life. If there was a problem in selling any of the funds this would have become
apparent during the sales process when Standard Life could then have made Mr O aware of
such problems. And I think Standard Life could have questioned, either with the new
platform or Magus, whether it should sell or obtain the information for the transfer first when
it received the request, if it was unsure what it should do.
After all Standard Life says it did note Mr Os personal request and I dont think its SIPP
terms and conditions are sufficiently clear on this matter for Standard Life to say that there
was only one course of action it could take.
But I think Mr Os request was clear and I havent seen anything in the new platforms
transfer request which overrode it. I think Standard Lifes should have begun the process for
selling the portfolios as far as possible with perhaps a check with the platform beforehand to
confirm the validity of Mr Os covering letter requesting encashment.
So I think its arguable that Standard Life should have taken the appropriate steps towards
Mr Os assets being sold - as far as possible - at an earlier point. But Im also conscious of
Standard Lifes service standard to deal with such requests of ten working days, which it
exceeded here by one day. At this point in time, the market turmoil created by the emerging
nature of the pandemic hadnt begun, and so I dont think it would be reasonable to expect
Standard Life to fast track such a request for any time sensitive reason. And arguably,
once financial markets had begun to drop sharply later in February 2020, the number of
disinvestment requests it might have been facing, along with other logistical issues faced by
large providers at that time, would mean that it would be unfair to have expected it to
routinely exceed its service standard.
And so I dont think I can fairly and reasonably hold Standard Life at fault for the time it
initially took to deal with Mr Os transfer request.
There is, however, then the matter of Standard Lifes actions from that point onwards. And I
have concerns relating to the amount of time it took to instruct the selling down of those
investments which werent to be transferred in specie. As far as I can tell, this didnt
happen until 10 March 2020. And Ive been unable to identify any reasonable justification for
this. And so, I think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Standard Life responsible for any
losses incurred by that particular delay period.
Ive noted that, during the time this complaint has been investigated, Magus decided to look
at Mr Os position had the sale of the assets within the SIPP been completed on
13 February 2020  which was a date that Mr O had put forward as having been proposed
as a transfer date. It concluded that Mr O was better off as a result of the delay and said he
hadnt suffered a financial loss. Ive addressed that particular issue in the complaint against
that business. but I think its also worth summarising that particular finding, on the basis of
the transfer having been actioned earlier, in this decision as well.The calculation to determine any loss
Looking at the calculation supplied by Magus, on which it had based its decision that Mr O
hadnt suffered a financial loss, I wasnt persuaded that it was carried out in line with the
method we would have recommended. Magus had calculated that, as of 8 July 2020  the
date that it carried out the calculation - Mr Os SIPP was worth over £13,000 more than if it
had been encashed and invested without delay and according to the transfer request.
So I asked for further calculations from Magus but also from the platform involved as I
thought it had the ability to be able to provide notional figures of what should have happened
if there hadnt been a delay.
Mr O was provided with a copy of these calculations, but he didnt accept them. He said it
wasnt possible to combine actual and theoretical values because the original fund no
longer existed and there was no correlation between that fund and the one that he
transferred to.
He said that the fund that was eventually transferred in May 2020 had already fallen by
£110,175.25 as a result of the delay  which he thought was an undisputed loss which he
should be compensated for.
But I think it would be sensible for me to try to explain what the calculation is trying to
demonstrate in an effort to show Mr O that, while he has indeed suffered delays over the
transfer of his SIPP  for which he wasnt in any way responsible in my view  the ultimate
outcome is that, based on the dates that were used for the calculation, he fortuitously
benefitted financially from those delays. I recognise this might be difficult to accept, given the
fairly obvious notion of the clear drop in the value of the fund from March to May 2020  but I
think the timing of the request, with the apparent volatility in the market because of a global
pandemic that was evolving at that time, might at least offer some explanation for what
happened to the funds here.
Mr O has said, on a number of occasions, that he is happy with his new funds and doesnt
want them mingled with the previous funds and shouldnt be part of this complaint. But its
not clear to me what he means by this. Mr O had lost faith in the original Standard Life funds
he held and thats why he wanted to transfer. By remaining in those funds for around three
months longer than he anticipated and wanted I can understand why Mr O would be
frustrated by that. And indeed, his frustration is at least superficially borne out by the fact that
the value of his SIPP, invested into those funds, fell by over £100,000 in those three months.
But thats been taken into account within the calculation which provided an actual value of
the fund, as of 8 July 2020, based on investment in those funds until May 2020 and then
investment into the new funds thereafter. This was then compared with the position Mr O
would be in now had investment been made into the new funds on 13 February 2020 
which is wanted Mr O wanted to happen.
Putting it as simply as I can, the replacement funds within the new platform wouldnt have
been immune from the market losses which afflicted his existing funds, especially when 60%
of the new investment portfolio was to be invested in equities. The only way by which Mr O
could have entirely insulated his pension funds from the falls in financial markets would have
been to switch into cash and remain in cash until the market had bottomed. But this isnt
what any party is saying should have happened here, and the evidence doesnt support the
position that this was Mr Os intent.So the transfer into the new platform should arguably have happened faster, but this would
have largely switched him from one type of portfolio which would be affected by losses in
financial markets at the time to another which would have experienced something similar.
And this is a reasonable explanation as to why the comparison demonstrated that
investment according to Mr Os request and at the earliest opportunity would have provided
him with a smaller fund than that he ended up with following the delayed transfer. In
essence, those replacement pension funds would also have been affected by the declines in
financial markets and, by remaining in his existing pension funds for longer, that negative
effect was somewhat mitigated.
But while Im satisfied with the information that was input to carry out the calculations that
have been provided, I dont consider now, having looked at all the evidence in more detail,
that the dates that were used were consistent with what I think should have happened here.
So, in order to ensure that any delays caused by Standard Life are accurately reflected in
the timeline I believe should have been followed, Ive set out below a sequence of events as
I see them and to provide Standard Life with a method to follow to carry out a definitive
calculation of any potential financial loss.
On 13 February 2020 Standard Life acknowledged that it received Mr Os request.
Mr O said this was the proposed sale date, but I dont think that would have been
possible given that Standard Life had a 10 day service standard for dealing with
requests and also would have needed to pass the request on to ASC to deal with the
actual sale. But given that 10 day service standard, I think this should have
happened by 27 February 2020.
Once received, ASC would have acted as it did, and sought confirmation from Magus
that, given adverse market movements, Mr O still wished to sell his investments.
So Standard Life needs to calculate the notional value of Mr Os SIPP as at the date
of any final decision along these lines, had the encashment process been started ten
working days after 13 February 2020  so 27 February 2020 rather than
10 March 2020.
There is a total delay period in this matter of 25 days, from 27 February 2020 until the
23 arch 2020  the date on which Magus provided confirmation to ASC that Mr Os
holdings should be sold. But Standard Life is only responsible for a proportion of this 
 from 27 February until 10 March 2020, the point at which it instructed ASC. This is
a period of 12 days.
Standard Life should therefore calculate the value of each holding, had it been sold
25 days before it was, and then what this could have been reinvested for (in terms of
units) 25 days before the actual reinvestment date/s.
It should then do the same for a point 13 days before the date that each holding was
sold and then reinvested. If the number of units which could have been bought at the
earlier reinvestment date would have been higher, there was a loss caused by that
particular period of delay, and the value, as at the date of any final decision, of those
additional units will be the total loss amount.
The resulting amount should be paid into Mr Os SIPP, allowing for any available tax
relief and annual allowance. It shouldnt be paid into Mr Os SIPP if it would conflict
with any protections in place.
If any loss determined above cannot be paid into Mr Os SIPP, it should be paid to
him directly. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, soMr O wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr O would
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75%
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either Standard Life or Mr O dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they
must let us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and
Mr O receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr O broadly accepted my provisional decision and said he thought the suggested redress 
formula was fair and equitable. But Standard Life didnt agree and made the following 
points in response:
In my findings Id referred to the terms and conditions for a cash transfer  not an in-
specie transfer. It said this wasnt a straight cash transfer as it involved re-registration 
of assets as well as cash. 
It doesnt outline the full in-specie transfer process within its terms and conditions as 
each case is different according to the investments held. And it isnt aware of the 
investment mix of a portfolio, only the headline SIPP value.  
The letter it received from the receiving platform provider was very clear that it 
shouldnt start the transfer process without sending an asset list to the provider first. 
It said this was an industry wide practice and was important to determine if 
investments can be transferred in-specie and indeed if they can be accepted at all. 
Mr Os request to encash his holdings was sent to the provider and not to Standard 
Life. They both needed to know if the transfer could actually proceed so required 
Standard Life to provide the requisite information about the funds. 
Mr Os instruction didnt say he wanted to sell regardless of a subsequent transfer. 
He was asking in anticipation of whether a transfer would be permitted. If Standard 
Life had ignored the request for information, Mr O might have been holding cash for 
longer than necessary or the transfer might not have been accepted, which would 
have meant Standard Life was responsible for reinvestment losses caused by 
ignoring the receiving providers instructions.
Usually, for in-specie transfers, it sends the cash at the end of the process after the 
other funds have been re-registered. So the transfer wouldnt normally have 
completed any earlier than it did anyway, because of the in-specie transfer aspect. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, and after carefully consideration of Standard Lifes further 
submissions and response, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
The delays in encashing the saleable assets in the SIPP
In February 2020 Mr O accepted his advisers recommendation to transfer his SIPP to a new 
provider. Because he wanted to encash all of the saleable assets in the SIPP first, he wrote 
an accompanying letter  which was sent to the receiving provider along with his transfer request pack. Ive seen a copy of this letter which said It is my wish to transfer my pension 
fund held within the above numbered SIPP to (the new platform). Please could you therefore 
authorise Aberdeen Standard Capital to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to 
cash to be returned to yourselves in anticipation of the transfer. 
The new provider passed on the request to Standard Life within a transfer request pack, 
and the first page of the pack stated, please find attached a request to transfer the above 
clients personal pension from you to (the new platform). Before processing the transfer 
request please arrange for a valuation with ISN/SEDOL codes to be sent to the following 
address
Standard Life says this was a clear instruction from the provider for information about the 
funds involved and it followed that request carefully and with good reason. It says that the 
information was needed to ensure that all the funds within the SIPP could actually be 
transferred as Mr O had already stated that one of the funds need to be re-registered, and 
this led it to believe there may have been others. It also says this is usual practice within the 
industry for the reasons given.
And I can understand why Standard Life might have taken this approach if it had simply 
received a request to transfer from one provider to another. In such a situation it would have 
been vital to be sure that all the funds could be transferred before attempting to go ahead. In 
this case the new provider referred to a transfer request and I could understand why it 
would require a list of funds to be transferred to ensure compatibility with its requirements. 
But there were two transactions required here. The first one  as outlined by Mr Os covering 
letter, was to sell down all of the conventional return portfolio to cash to be returned to 
yourself in anticipation of the transfer. Please can all of the target return portfolio also be 
sold down, wherever possible, and the cash retuned to yourself (my emphasis). Standard 
Life accepts that it received this covering letter along with the transfer request, but decided 
to provide the fund information and valuation to the new provider in the first instance. But I 
dont agree that this course of action was appropriate, or in line with Mr Os specific request. 
I think Mr Os request was clear, and it was clearly in anticipation of the transfer, so I think 
Standard Life should, as a first course of action, have progressed the request for the sale of 
the required assets to ASC. 
I know Standard Life has argued that it simply followed instructions from the new platform, 
but I think it should have prioritised Mr Os instruction  which was a course of action 
intended to happen in advance of the transfer, and therefore wouldnt have required the 
information about the funds that the new platform requested.
But even if a different interpretation of what Standard Life should have done was possible 
here, I would have expected Standard Life to have raised that issue with Mr O or Magus, or 
even the new provider. I think its more likely than not it would have been confirmed to 
Standard Life that the first, and most important course of action, was to sell the assets as 
stated  in anticipation of a pension transfer.  
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think Standard Life was responsible for any 
delay after 10 March 2020 when Magus was in discussion with ASC about the sale of the 
funds and the transfer of all the assets, including the re-registration. I dealt with that delay in 
the other decisions and, based on the further submissions Ive been provided with, I havent 
been persuaded to change my mind. So I dont think its fair to hold Standard Life 
responsible for that part of the overall delay. 
The redress calculation In my provisional decision I said that a calculation to determine any losses had already been 
carried out both by Magus and also the new SIPP platform at my request. The calculation, 
which was based on selling assets within the SIPP and transferring the SIPP at the earliest 
date possible, showed that Mr O had in fact made a financial gain from the (delayed) 
process. I explained why this may have happened, in what was a rather unique investment 
background  coming as it did in the middle of significant volatility in the markets caused by 
a global pandemic. 
But I wasnt satisfied that the dates that were used in the calculations best reflected what I 
thought should realistically have happened. So I said Standard Life should carry out a 
different calculation, based on different dates, to account for what I said was a 12 day delay 
it had caused. Standard Life hasnt made any comment on the proposed redress formula  
simply that it doesnt believe it did anything which may have led to a delay in the 
encashment of the SIPP assets. So Ive set out the final redress formula below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if his SIPP assets had been sold earlier. 
On 13 February 2020 Standard Life acknowledged that it received Mr Os sale request. Mr O 
said this was the proposed sale date, but I dont think that would have been
possible given that Standard Life had a 10 day service standard for dealing with
requests, and also would have needed to pass the request on to ASC to deal with the
actual sale. But given that 10 day service standard, I think this should have
happened by 27 February 2020.
Once received, ASC would have acted as it did, and sought confirmation from Magus
that, given adverse market movements, Mr O still wished to sell his investments.
So to compensate Mr O fairly Standard Life needs to calculate the notional value of Mr Os 
SIPP as at the date of this final decision, had the encashment process been started ten 
working days after 13 February 2020  so 27 February 2020 rather than
10 March 2020.
There is a total delay period in this matter of 25 days, from 27 February 2020 until the
23 March 2020  the date on which Magus provided confirmation to ASC that Mr Os
holdings should be sold. But Standard Life is only responsible for a proportion of this  from
27 February until 10 March 2020, the point at which it instructed ASC to sell the assets. This 
is a period of 12 days. Standard Life should therefore calculate the value of each holding, 
had it been sold 25 days before it was, and then what this could have been reinvested for (in 
terms of units) 25 days before the actual reinvestment date/s.
It should then do the same for a point 13 days before the date that each holding was
sold and then reinvested. 
If the number of units which could have been bought at the earlier reinvestment date would 
have been higher, there was a loss caused by that particular period of delay, and the value, 
as at the date of this final decision, of those additional units will be the total loss amount.
If there is a loss Standard Life should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the loss and any interest (as set out below). The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Standard Life is unable to pay the total amount into Mr O's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr O wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I assumed this to be basic rate in the provisional 
decision, and neither party has disputed this. And so the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall deduction of 15%.
Additional interest at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added to any loss from the 
date of this final decision to settlement if the complaint isnt settled within 28 days of 
Standard Life receiving notification of Mr Os acceptance.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Standard Life deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. Standard Life should give Mr O 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Standard Life Assurance Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Standard Life Assurance Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr O in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman