DRN-3666381
The complaint
Mr Cs representative has complained, on his behalf, about what he considers to have been 
the unprecedented uplift by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in the value of its 
PruFunds, which would indicate that they had previously been undervalued  and that the 
principle of smoothing which should have applied to the funds hadnt been properly 
implemented. 
Due to a fund switch and movement into a holding fund, Mr C then missed out on the uplift, 
for which he and his representative consider he should be compensated. 
What happened
According to Mr Cs submission to this service, Mr C had a review with his financial adviser 
in June 2021, in which it was agreed that, to better match his attitude to risk, he would switch 
from the PruFund RM2 fund into the PruFund Growth fund.
Again, according to the complaint form, Mr C was made aware of the 28 day holding period 
before the switch would complete, and during which he would be unaffected by any unit 
price adjustments (either upwards or downwards) which would be applied to either the 
ceding or recipient funds.
My understanding is that, according to Prudential, Mr C instructed the fund switch on 28 July 
2021 (although I note the investigator said that this was 30 June 2021), following which Mr 
Cs pension funds were sold 28 days later, then moved into the holding account and were 
then reinvested in the PruFund Growth fund on 25 August 2021.
On the same day, but before the reinvestment of Mr Cs pension funds, Prudential applied a 
Unit Price Reset (UPR) which resulted in an increase in the value of all of the PruFunds. But 
as Mr Cs funds were held in the holding account pending reinvestment at the time, he 
missed out on the uplift.
Mr C and his representative considered that Mr C had been disadvantaged by Prudential 
applying the uplift in this way and that his pension funds should benefit from the UPR. As 
such they complained to Prudential, but Prudential declined to uphold the complaint, saying 
the following in summary:
Once the fund switch had been instructed, the pension funds were then subject to the 
28 day waiting period, and the instruction couldnt be cancelled.
The fund switch took place on 25 August 2021, and following this, the funds were 
subject to the same rules as any other investment in its PruFunds, in that they 
remained in the holding account until the next sweep (or reinvestment) date.
As the funds were in the holding account when the UPR was applied, they werent 
eligible for the UPR.
Dissatisfied with the response, the complaint was then referred to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld, saying the following in summary:
In Mr Cs complaint submitted to this service, he clearly described how the PruFunds, 
the smoothing, and any potential adjustments operated  and so it seemed he had a 
good understanding of this.
Any potential UPR which may have applied to the PruFunds whilst Mr Cs pension 
funds were in the holding account wouldnt have affected them. As the UPR was 
applied when Mr Cs funds were in the holding account, they werent eligible for the 
uplift.
He was satisfied that this was in line with how the fund should operate, as set out in 
the terms and conditions and the key facts.
The process, and the possibility of missing out on a UPR, seemed to have been 
discussed between Mr C and his adviser, and this was a risk which Mr C was 
prepared to accept.
And in making the decision to switch, he couldnt hold Prudential responsible for this.
He was satisfied that Prudential had applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
correctly, and by not being invested in one of the PruFunds for the entirety of the 
previous quarter, Mr C wouldnt have qualified for the uplift.
Mr Cs representative disagreed, however, and requested that it be referred to an 
ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and his representative, but Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
Ive noted that there appears to be no fundamental issue with the switching process itself. As 
observed by the investigator, Mr Cs representative appears to have been familiar with the 
process and had, according to the complaint form, conveyed this to Mr C.
And so there appears to be no dispute that, from a technical perspective at least, Prudential 
applied its switching process correctly.
The concerns seemingly lie with what Mr C and his representative consider to have been the 
failure of Prudential to properly implement its own smoothing process and which led to what 
theyve described as an unprecedented uplift in the value of funds across the PruFund 
range. As such, they are of the view that Mr Cs fund would have been undervalued before 
this, and that he should therefore still benefit from the uplift which was applied, even though 
his funds were in the holding account when the UPR occurred.
Ive thought carefully about these arguments, but it would be very difficult for me to conclude 
that Prudential had improperly applied its smoothing process, especially when it has 
confirmed that it was implemented in line with the literature it provided on the matter. Im not 
in a position to fairly or reasonably conclude that the uplift in August 2021 was unwarranted, 
or that this should in some way have been evened out by perhaps smaller increases over time before August 2021. The manner in which Prudential makes such decisions is largely a 
matter for its own commercial judgement. Nor am I aware of any concerns that the regulator 
may have about the manner in which Prudential manages its With Profits funds.
But if Mr C or his representative do have concerns about the mechanism by which Prudential 
manages its With Profits fund, this is something which would in any case be better referred 
to the regulator.
Im only able to consider individual complaints, and whilst I understand and acknowledge the 
concerns over how Mr C has been treated here, given that the switch and the UPR have 
been processed in line with the available literature and the terms and conditions, I dont think 
I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Prudential hasnt treated Mr C fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman