DRN-3658063
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs K have an annual travel insurance policy with
Great Lakes. The period of cover was 28 January 2020 to 27 January 2021.
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs K booked a seven night package holiday with a
departure date of 6 April 2020. In early March 2020, Mr and Mrs K became aware of a
case of Covid-19 at a hotel near to where they planned to stay. They were concerned
because Mr K had pneumonia many years ago which resulted in a scarred lung. On
4 March 2020 they asked their trip provider about cancellation charges.
Mr K sought the advice of his GP. On 5 March 2020, Mr Ks GP provided an open letter
in which he said that he advised Mr K to cancel or postpone the trip indefinitely in light of
the Covid-19 pandemic, as his previous medical history made him more susceptible to
chest infections than the general population. Ill refer to Mr Ks GPs letter in more detail
below. On or before 9 March 2020, Mr and Mrs K cancelled their trip and made a claim
against their policy in relation to unrecovered trip costs of £2,309.50.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a
pandemic. On 14 March 2020, the government of Mr and Mrs Ks destination country
declared a state of national emergency and put that country into lockdown. On
15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, formerly the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to
Mr and Mrs Ks intended destination. On 17 March 2020 the FCDO advised against all
but essential travel abroad. That advice remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ks
intended departure.
Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Ks claim. It said that Mr and Mrs K cancelled the trip 
because they preferred not to travel due to Mr Ks underlying health condition.
Great Lakes said that as Mr and Mrs K cancelled the trip before the FCDO advice on 
17 March 2020, they missed out on a full refund from the provider of their package 
holiday. It said that as Mr K hadnt disclosed the medical condition which led to the 
cancellation of the trip, it couldnt consider the claim. Mr and Mrs K pursued their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs K say that they cancelled their trip on 7 March 2020 in order to mitigate 
their financial loss as, after that date, the travel provider would refund a smaller 
percentage of the total cost of the trip. They say that they had no way of knowing that 
subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the FCDO would advise against all but essential 
travel and if theyd known that advice was imminent, they would have waited until then 
to cancel the trip. Mr and Mrs K say that they didnt cancel the trip because they 
preferred not to travel  they cancelled because of medical advice to Mr K. They say 
that single pneumonia in 1997 left Mr K with a scarred lung which is a weakness, not a 
medical condition. As hed be more susceptible to Covid-19, Mr Ks GP advised him 
not to travel.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, he said that
Mr and Mrs K hadnt shown that their loss was irrecoverable. Mr and Mrs K provided 
further information about that and the investigator reconsidered the matter. The 
investigator said that, based on what hed seen, when Mr and Mrs K took out the policy, 
Mr K answered questions about his health to the best of his ability. The investigator didnt 
think that the questions Great Lakes asked Mr K would have prompted him to disclose a 
health issue many years ago. So, he thought that Great Lakes should settle                     
Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
Great Lakes asked to see Mr Ks medical records. It then said that there was no 
evidence to substantiate Mr Ks GPs comment that he suffers from recurrent chest 
infections and bouts of pleurisy and that hes more susceptible to chest infections than 
the normal population, as the only mention of any respiratory condition relates to a 
cough in 2015. Great Lakes said there wasnt enough medical evidence to support 
cancellation of the trip.
The investigator considered the matter again. He said the medical records Great Lakes 
relied on in coming to its decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ks claim go back to 2015 but  
Mr K says that he had pneumonia in 1997. As Mr Ks GP said that Mr K had reason to 
cancel the trip as he was more susceptible to illness, Great Lakes should settle
Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
Mr and Mrs K agreed with the investigator, but Great Lakes didnt. It said, in summary:
Mr Ks GP said that due to an episode of pneumonia 23 years ago which caused 
scarring to his lung, Mr K suffers from recurrent chest infections and occasional 
bouts of pleurisy, but Mr Ks medical records dont support that.
Its supposition that Mr K may have suffered from chest infections before 2015, 
when the medical records start.
Mr K may well have concerns about travelling but in its experience, doctors are 
sometimes willing to provide a letter supporting their patients concern and wish 
not to travel.
Mr Ks GPs evidence isnt persuasive and shouldnt be relied on.
My provisional decision
On 2 August 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in which I indicated that I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say 
as follows:
Cancellation
What is coveredWe will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other pre-
paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. You are also covered for any 
additional travel expenses incurred if you are forced to cancel any part of your trip prior to 
its commencement. This must be as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside of 
your control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the time of 
booking your trip, whichever is the later.
[]
Special conditions relating to claims
1. []
2. If you cancel the trip due to bodily injury or illness you must provide a medical certificate 
from a doctor stating that this necessarily prevented you from travelling.
What is not covered under Cancellation and Abandonment
[]
Any claim for a medical condition if any of the following applied when you took out your
policy or booked your trip (whichever is later). You:
have received advice, medication or treatment for any chronic or recurring 
illness, injury or disease in the last 12 months, unless the condition was 
disclosed to and accepted by us;
are currently suffering from any heart, cancer or respiratory condition, or have 
done so in the last five years, unless disclosed to and accepted by us;
were under investigation or awaiting results for any diagnosed or 
undiagnosed condition, unless disclosed to and accepted by us
were on a waiting list for in-patient treatment or were aware of the need for in-
patient treatment for any diagnosed or undiagnosed condition, unless disclosed to 
and accepted by us;
had been told you have a terminal illness.
[]
You cancelling or cutting short your trip because of:
your disinclination to travel []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont propose to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated them
unfairly in declining their claim. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in principle 
but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy the onus shifts to the 
insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
In the first instance, its for Mr and Mrs K to show that the cancellation of their trip was 
a direct and necessary result of a cause outside their control which wasnt foreseen at 
the start date of their policy. And as Mr and Mrs K say that they cancelled their trip 
because of Mr Ks previous illness, they must provide a medical certificate from a 
doctor stating that this necessarily prevented them from travelling.I think its now common ground that Mr K didnt make a misrepresentation in 
answering Great Lakes questions about his health when he took out the policy. 
So, I wont address that further.
Mr K provided Great Lakes with an open letter dated 5 March 2020 from his GP. That 
letter says that Mr K had pneumonia about 23 years ago which caused scarring of his 
lung and that Mr K has recurrent chest infections and occasional bouts of pleurisy.    
Mr Ks GP said that hes more susceptible to chest infections than the normal 
population. The GPs advice to Mr K was that as Covid-19 affects the chest, he should 
cancel or postpone his holiday until its clear its safe for him to travel.
I think Great Lakes concerns about Mr Ks GPs comments are fair and reasonable. 
Thats because, Mr Ks available medical records dont support the statements in his 
GPs open letter dated 5 March 2020. Based on what Mr Ks GP said, Id expect to 
see evidence of chest infections and pleurisy in Mr Ks medical records. The medical 
records Ive seen  which go back to 2015  show only a cough in 2015 and not 
recurrent chest infections or occasional pleurisy. So, its not clear how Mr Ks GP 
reached the conclusion that Mr K was more susceptible to chest infections and 
therefore more at risk from Covid-19 than the general population. I dont think that 
Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to rely on Mr Ks GPs letter of 
5 March 2020.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr K was subsequently advised to shield or  
self-isolate during the Covid-19 pandemic due to his medical history. Based on
what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs K have shown that they cancelled their 
trip as a direct and necessary result of a cause outside their control. It seems to me 
that, quite understandably, Mr and Mrs K preferred not to travel because Mr K had 
what he described as a weakness which was caused by an historical illness. So, I 
dont think that Mr and Mrs K have shown that their claim is covered by their policy as 
their preference not to travel wasnt a cause outside their control.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, theres an exclusion in the policy in 
relation to cancellation resulting from a disinclination to travel. I dont think its 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to rely on that exclusion here.
Mr and Mrs K cancelled their trip before the FCDO advised against non-essential 
travel. So, I havent considered the parts of the policy which relate to that, as it 
wouldnt alter the outcome here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision, but Mr and Mrs K didnt. Mr K responded 
to say:
In March 2020, we didnt know much about Covid-19, but it was known that it 
attacked the lungs and he had a lung weakness which meant that he was 
petrified of getting Covid-19. So, this wasnt simply a disinclination to travel.
He takes exception to Great Lakes approach to the open letter from his GP.
His chest infections before 2015 are on his medical records.
He still suffers regularly from pleurisy but doesnt visit his doctor each time. They cancelled their holiday solely because of the risk of severe illness if he 
contracted Covid-19, a cause outside his control.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes is entitled draw its own conclusion on the medical report Mr K provided and, for 
the reasons I set out in the provisional decision, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in coming to the conclusions that it did. I note what Mr K says about his health, but I dont 
think its unreasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the available medical records, rather than 
on what Mr K says about his medical history or on a medical report that isnt supported by 
the medical records.  
I can quite understand Mr and Mrs Ks concerns about Covid-19, but I remain of the view 
that Mr and Mrs K havent shown that they cancelled their trip as a direct and necessary 
result of a cause outside their control. I think that, quite understandably, Mr and Mrs K 
preferred not to travel. Thats not something thats covered by their policy. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K are disappointed with the provisional decision, but I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman