DRN-3359920
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd restricted and then closed his account without warning and 
wont refund a transaction he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr A had an electronic money account with Revolut. In January 2021 Mr A contacted 
Revolut to say that hed been the victim of fraud, and there were transactions on his account 
to gambling merchants that he didnt recognise. 
He said he had been contacted by someone claiming to work for Revolut, wanting to carry 
out a security check. They came round to his house dressed in a Revolut t-shirt and offering 
a Covid vaccine but instead took copies of his ID and banking details. This led to several of 
his accounts being compromised. He asked for a refund of the money spent.
Revolut investigated what happened, and restricted Mr As account while they carried out a 
review. They asked Mr A for more information, and Mr A regularly asked for updates in the 
chat. 
Mr A complained about how long the review was taking, but Revolut said they were meeting 
their legal and regulatory obligations and couldnt provide an exact timescale on how long 
the review would take. After completing the review Revolut immediately closed Mr As 
account. The funds in the account were returned to Mr A, but Revolut didnt refund the 
transactions in dispute.
Unhappy with this response Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Before it was 
investigated Revolut offered Mr A £20 for the inconvenience, which he declined. 
Our investigator then reviewed the complaint but didnt think Revolut had been unfair to 
Mr A. They explained Revolut had certain legal and regulatory requirements they had to 
follow, which can lead to accounts being restricted and closed. They also agreed that 
Revoluts terms and conditions allowed them to close the account in the manner they did.
Mr A disagreed and asked for the money he disputed to be returned to him. As no 
agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained Revolut, like all financial businesses in the UK, have legal and 
regulatory obligations they need to fulfil when providing accounts to consumers. Having 
reviewed all the evidence Im satisfied Revolut acted in line with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mr As account, and that they were entitled to do so under their terms. Mr A first 
reported the potential fraud, so its sensible for a bank to put a block on the account while 
they look into it.
Ive reviewed what happened on the account, I dont think its unreasonable for Revolut to 
decline to return the funds. Generally, a financial business can hold a consumer liable for 
any payments theyve either made themselves or agreed to  these are treated as 
authorised payments. Mr A is alleging a rather sophisticated fraud against him, but the 
details hes given dont seem credible. 
It also seems unusual to me that such a sophisticated fraudster, having gained access to 
Mr As Revolut account, apparently among other accounts, only made a few transactions to 
a gambling merchant over a few days. I would expect them to try to make use of the 
considerable balance on the account in a short period. 
I also note that these transactions arent out of character for the usage of the account up to 
this point. This leads me to the conclusion that its more likely than not Mr A who made the 
transactions on the account. As such they would be considered authorised, and Revolut are 
under no obligation to refund Mr A for them.
The terms outline when Revolut can close an account. The terms allow them to end their 
relationship with Mr A, just as he can close his account with Revolut. I can see when they 
took this decision, they told him the same day. Which is what Id expect. 
I can understand why Mr A would be upset by this, but I consider the decision Revolut made 
to be reasonable. As such I wouldnt expect them to compensate him for distress that is a 
result of a reasonable course of action.Revolut returned the balance of the account to Mr A, 
which was a sensible course of action. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest Revolut have been unfair or unreasonable in 
their decision to block and then close Mr As account. And Im satisfied they treated him fairly 
in declining to refund the transactions in dispute. Because of this, Im not asking them to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman