DRN-3312572
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed his identity to be used to fraudulently open 
a bank account.
What happened
Mr O explained that he first became aware of a default on his credit file in January 2021. The 
default related to an overdraft on a HSBC current account opened in 2017. 
Mr O made enquiries with HSBC the next month and told them he wasnt responsible for 
opening the account. Mr O believes someone used his identity to open the account. HSBC 
looked into the situation and agreed that the account wasnt opened by Mr O. HSBC 
checked their account opening records and the address used on the application was an old 
one for Mr O whod moved out to a new address around the time of the bank application.
Mr O complained to HSBC who wrote off the debt, removed any reference to the account on 
his credit file and registered a protective marker to help protect Mr O from other fraudulent 
applications.
Mr O was left unhappy with how HSBC had handled his complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked for evidence from both parties. Mr O wanted compensation from 
HSBC because theyd allowed his identity to be used to generate a debt, which he was now 
being pursued for.
HSBC provided evidence of their investigation and other documents related to another 
complaint Mr O had brought against the purchaser of the debt. Mr O brought complaint 
against them and thats been dealt with separately.
HSBC explained that they were owed a debt resulting from an overdraft that was spent on 
the false account. Theyd tried to get in touch with Mr O (who they thought was the legitimate 
holder of the account) at his old address. HSBC didnt receive any response and they 
identified a new address belonging to Mr O and wrote to him on several occasions in 2019 
and 2020. This address is Mr Os current address and one he registered with the Financial 
Ombudsman.
At the end of 2019, HSBC had decided to sell the outstanding debt to another business and 
as part of the transfer of the debt, they wrote to Mr O at his current address advising him that 
the outstanding debt was being sold. HSBC didnt receive any response from Mr O.
Our investigator thought that HSBC had acted reasonably when they wrote off the debt and 
updated Mr Os credit records to remove any reference to the account or its debt. Mr O 
disagreed and wanted a further review of his complaint.
Mr O questioned the procedure HSBC carried out when they opened the account and 
explained that because HSBC had sold his account, hed suffered financial and 
psychological distress.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once Mr O notified HSBC that the account wasnt opened by him, they looked into it and 
accepted that Mr O had been a victim of identity fraud using his details and an old address. 
HSBC wrote off the debt, updated his credit file and added a protective marker with an anti-
fraud agency to provide added protection from further fraudulent uses of his identity. I think 
HSBC acted appropriately once they were made aware of the situation.
Mr O has complained that he suffered financial and psychological distress as a result of 
HSBC selling his debt. Whilst having your identity stolen is no doubt an unpleasant 
experience, its worth mentioning that it was carried out by an unknown third party. The debt 
was sold once HSBCs own efforts had failed to retrieve the funds.
Mr O has said he was first aware of the situation when he found out in January 2021. But the 
evidence from HSBC is that they were writing to Mr O at his current address from 2019 
onwards. HSBC wrote several letters to Mr O and they were addressed using Mr Os proper 
name at his current address. So, I think its likely Mr O would have seen at least one of those 
letters because they were properly addressed to him and hed have no reason to ignore 
them. Ive read the content of the letters and they explain that Mr O owes a debt to HSBC.  
Id expect this to raise a question with Mr O in the same way it did in 2021 when he says he 
first found out about the debt. I think its reasonable to expect Mr O at that point to contact 
HSBC and explain the debt wasnt linked to him. I see no reason to doubt that HSBC 
wouldnt have carried out the same investigation at that time and come to the same 
conclusion they did over a year later. 
So, I dont think the actions of HSBC when they sold the debt were unreasonable when 
theyd tried to get in touch with Mr O about it (and continued to do so). I dont think it would 
be fair to ask HSBC to compensate Mr O when they opened the account in good faith after 
satisfying themselves that Mr Os application was genuine. I think it likely Mr O was aware of 
the debt quite some time before he approached HSBC about it and I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for how this impacted Mr O after they sold the 
debt.
Mr O has been put back in the position he was in prior to the debt being registered against 
him and I think HSBC acted reasonably once they were told by Mr O that he was the victim 
of identity theft. I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman