DRN-2245014
The complaint
Mr B complains that his with-profits mortgage endowment plan with Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva) decreased in value and did not yield the estimated amount upon 
maturity.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr B complained because in March 2020 Aviva estimated that he would receive an amount 
of £33,573.25 upon maturity of his policy, but he eventually received £2,100 less than this.
I think its important to point out that this isnt money that has been taken away from Mr Bs 
plan or redistributed. This is because the amount of £33,573.25 was a prospective value that 
Aviva wouldve anticipated they could achieve with the terminal bonus (in other words, it was 
an estimate). It was never money that was in his plan all along that has been clawed back at 
the last moment; it is just that the anticipated value wasnt achieved. So I dont consider it to 
be the case that £2,100 has gone missing and that Aviva ought to explain where it has gone.
A share of Mr Bs plans final value would have been accounted for by the terminal bonus. 
But whereas annual bonuses are guaranteed the terminal bonus was not. And I can see that 
Aviva made it clear in their letter of March 2020 that the value quoted was only an estimate:
We cant yet give you the final value of your policy, but we can give you an estimate 
which can go down as well as up.
So although Aviva quoted £33,573.25, they are not obligated to pay this and I can see that 
theyve made this clear to Mr B. In terms of the factors that caused the bonus to fall, Aviva 
have explained that the volatility of the financial markets throughout the past decade or so 
(an in particular, the first quarter of 2020 which saw significant losses in the stock market) 
resulted in a reduction in policy pay-outs of typically 5% to 7.5%. I appreciate they may not 
have gone into a great amount of detail about all the other various factors that can affect a 
bonus. But this can depend on a number of things, such as the cost of the insurance 
business, as well the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where some of the profits 
are held back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years to avoid any 
drastic fluctuations).
The reality is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by an actuary. And the actuaries will decide how much of the funds profits are 
paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve to help with smoothing as explained 
above. But I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed complex or detailed 
breakdowns of their actuarial calculations to Mr B. So I think it was reasonable enough for 
them to explain that adverse investment conditions had been the predominant reason for the 
fall in value.
Aviva explained to Mr B in his policy illustration that the final value of his plan could rise as 
well as fall, and that the target amount was not guaranteed. I can also see that he was sent 
a Red alert letter in March 2016 which told him that there was a high risk of his policy not 
paying out enough to cover the target amount. And the fact that the final bonus rate was 
lower when it was calculated at the point of maturity does not mean that Aviva have treated 
Mr B unfairly or have deprived him of his money  it is simply a result of the market/fund 
conditions prevailing at that moment in time. So, in the circumstances, I will not be asking 
them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman