DRN-4263583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about their property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
regarding its handling of a claim they made when there was a water leak at their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were away on holiday in December 2022 when their bungalow, particularly its 
kitchen, was damaged by a leak from water apparatus in the loft. Their son began organising 
some mitigation work, he advised UKI that his parents would want to return to the house 
when they came back, and a temporary kitchen was installed in the garage. 
In January 2023 Mr and Mrs T were still living in the damaged property, a digital assessment 
of the damage had been completed by a loss adjuster on behalf of UKI and invoices and 
estimates from the contractor initially employed to complete mitigation works were being 
considered. Mr and Mrs T felt the claim was stalling. Mrs T had been undergoing treatment 
for a serious medical condition and theyd thought the claim would be quickly settled. They 
were disappointed that was not proving to be the case. 
In February 2023 it was agreed that although they had some benefit from the temporary 
kitchen, they could also have an allowance to off-set extra costs of living in the damaged 
property. UKI said it would pay them £15 each per day of being in the property, but from any 
total to pay it would deduct the cost incurred for installing the temporary kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs T then moved into hotel type accommodation in mid-February, with a move to 
short-term let accommodation scheduled for March 2023. Following a failed move on 
8 March, their taking a short holiday, and a further rescheduling of removal arrangements, 
they moved to the let property on 28 March 2023. UKI noted the hotel bookings had not 
included evening meals, it said it would pay them £15 each for 24 days and £720 was 
subsequently paid to them on 24 March 2023. With £90 for a further three days being paid 
later (in August 2023 as part of a larger payment).
Whilst the accommodation had been being discussed, a further loss adjuster visit had taken 
place, with UKI wanting a surveyor to view the damage too. Following the second loss 
adjuster visit Mr and Mrs T instructed a loss assessor to deal with the claim on their behalf. 
This was because they were generally concerned about the claim, with particular worries 
about how the loss adjuster might be handling it. A visit from UKIs surveyor was put on hold. 
At the end of March 2023 it was agreed that a UKI surveyor could attend. At this time there 
was an invoice outstanding from the mitigation works and what work was needed to reinstate 
the home, along with its cost, was still under discussion. 
UKI issued two final responses to Mr and Mrs T at the end of March 2023  they did not deal 
with the concerns Mr and Mrs T had raised with it about the problems with them moving to 
the let property. UKI answered these concerns in a final response issued in June 2023. In 
considering how it handled the claim in its final response of 23 March 2023, UKI accepted it 
had caused some delays and communicated poorly. It said a visit from a surveyor was 
needed to progress things. It noted Mr and Mr T had been upset following the second loss 
adjusters visit and said their case handler had been changed. It paid Mr and Mrs T £250 
compensation. In its June final response, regarding the problems with moving into the let 
accommodation  UKI paid Mr and Mrs T £500 compensation.
Mr and Mrs T had complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service at the end of 
March 2023. Our Investigator subsequently considered their concerns raised at that time  
including in respect of moving into let accommodation. He felt UKI had caused around six 
weeks of delay to the end of March. And that the problems with moving house had caused 
significant upset. Overall, he felt UKIs total compensation of £750 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs T were disappointed. They said their main reason for complaining to us, was so 
wed make UKI take reasonable action to settle the claim. They were upset that theyd 
disclosed sensitive personal data about Mrs Ts condition to no material gain.  They 
remained very upset about the visit on 30 January 2023  believing the claim was still being 
delayed by that handler. Mr and Mrs T said theyd recently discovered she hadnt been 
removed from their claim. They didnt think compensation had been properly assessed.
Our Investigator confirmed that we could not look into Mr and Mrs Ts concerns about the 
case handler not truly having been removed from their claim. He explained that is because 
this complaint issue post-dated their original complaint to both UKI and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, so the concerns had not been considered as a complaint by UKI. 
Our Investigator though told UKI it should make a further payment regarding disturbance 
allowance. He thought it should be paying DA for a total of 73 days, from 31 December 2022 
to 11 March 2023, and three days at the end of March. He thought UKI could take the 
temporary kitchen cost off of any amount owing with interest being paid on any outstanding 
sum, applied from 10 February 2023 (when UKI agreed the DA) until settlement is made. 
UKI agreed £750 was outstanding and said it would arrange for a payment to be made. 
As Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy overall their complaint was passed for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unsuitable condition of home
The conditions Mr and Mrs T were living in when they came home were clearly unsuitable. 
But I see UKI was originally communicating with their son who arranged the installation in 
the garage. Clearly that was expected to be a short-term fix. I note that when Mr and Mrs T 
asked to move out that was agreed. I dont think UKI failed them in this respect. 
Disturbance allowance (DA)
A DA is often paid when policyholders live in an uninhabitable home, or a home or other 
short term alternative accommodation (AA) lacking certain essential facilities. Such as a 
hotel. Its paid to make up for extra costs spent. Its usually paid at a rate of £10 per person 
per day. UKI paid £15 each per day here. Its now agreed to pay that over the whole period 
Mr and Mrs T stayed in their home/in short term AA (73 days, with 27 of that total having 
been paid already). And UKI had paid for a temporary kitchen which, in itself helped reduce 
other extra costs. I think its fair to let it deduct its cost for the temporary kitchen from what is 
owed for DA (£1,380 - £630, giving £750). Thats because it was installed to mitigate some 
extra costs. But it should pay interest* as Mr and Mrs T should have had this money sooner 
 from 10 February 2023 is a fair date in my view. Ill make an award in this respect  but if 
any part of the outstanding sum has been paid, UKI wont have to pay it again.Alternative accommodation (AA)
I can see that UKI was having difficulty finding AA. Which then meant Mr and Mrs T had to 
become involved. There were then problems with arranging move dates and removals. 
I absolutely appreciate that was very stressful as well as inconvenient for Mr and Mrs T, 
particularly as one of the failed moves was just before their holiday. That caused them to 
need further temporary accommodation when they returned home  with there being a 
further problem then too. The problems impacted their holiday, which had been booked to 
help avoid some of the claim stresses. The move to AA shouldve been managed much 
better by UKI. I dont doubt these failures were a huge source of stress and worry for 
Mr and Mrs T.
Disclosed vulnerability
When Mr and Mrs T had returned home in December 2022, theyd told UKI of Mrs Ts 
medical condition. They were aware that with a vulnerability like that, theyd be given priority. 
Weeks later they found out their file had not been marked with the vulnerability  and even 
when that was done, they felt they gained no priority status. 
I think UKI acted poorly in this respect. It should have noted the file immediately  and I can 
understand the frustration Mr and Mrs T felt when they found out this had not been done. As 
Mr and Mrs T said, even having just been given a single point of contact would have helped 
them  they had multiple contacts and often emails werent replied to. I can see that was 
frustrating for them. I think though, that is the main thing UKI could likely have done in this 
instance. The property had or was already being stripped and dried, and the next phase of 
the claim was validation for reinstatement work. And UKI wasnt doing the work so it couldnt, 
for example, look to expedite attendance of a contractor to start work. If UKI had recorded 
the vulnerability that might have caused the loss adjusters visit to have occurred a week or 
two earlier than it did. But once that happened the claim stalled. I dont think moving that visit 
up by a couple of weeks would have avoided everything else. So whilst Im satisfied that UKI 
failed Mr and Mrs T in this respect, which undoubtedly caused them some upset, I think that 
failure had a limited impact on the claim itself.
Loss adjusters visit
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the conduct of their loss adjuster case handler during a visit 
on 30 January 2023. Theyve clarified they are most upset by what they see as her poor 
attitude, arriving at the home and saying that because theyd complained she was now going 
to take them down a very long road. UKI asked the case handler about this. She recalls 
explaining that she works in the complex claims team, that theyd now be dealing with the 
claim. UKI has confirmed the visit occurred because the complex claims team had been 
asked to deal with the claim due to its value. 
I appreciate how upset Mr and Mrs T feel about this. I should explain though that its always 
very difficult for the Financial Ombudsman Service to make findings about face to face 
encounters like this  for example we arent a court so dont have powers to cross examine 
people. And, unless there is video or voice recording evidence to consider, theres often little 
verifiable independent detail to refer to decide which party is most likely correct in their 
recollection. I bear in mind that Mrs T has said that she, Mr T and their contractor all recall 
the comment the same. But I also must bear in mind that the claim had been passed to the 
complex claims team and the case handlers explanation of what she said, or intended to 
express, makes sense. I absolutely believe that Mr and Mrs T recall the comment as theyve 
expressed. And I accept that caused them worry. They acted to mitigate that by appointing a 
loss assessor. But the course of the claim itself did not change and Im satisfied, in the 
period I am considering, it wasnt impacted in any way by any negative action or view of that 
case handler. It clearly stalled until the end of March  the period up until which Im looking 
at  but I havent seen that was because of anything the case handler did.Id add here that UKI told Mr and Mrs T, at the end of March, that, due to their concerns, it 
had changed the loss adjuster  the company was the same but theyd been assigned a new 
case handler. I think that acting in that way was absolutely the correct response for UKI to 
make. It doesnt mean UKI accepted the case handler had acted inappropriately. Rather UKI 
could see how upset Mr and Mrs T were and acted pragmatically to make a change to try 
and ensure the claim could move ahead more smoothly. I know that recently Mr and Mrs T 
have come to believe that the case handler wasnt really removed, that she remained 
involved. As our Investigator explained, they need to address their concerns in that respect 
with UKI, and then make a separate complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service if they 
arent happy with its response. In terms of this current complaint, its my view, that UKIs 
assurance, expressed in its final response of March 2023, that the case handler had been 
changed, was a fair and reasonable response to the situation where Mr and Mrs T had 
clearly lost faith in the handler who had visited on 30 January 2023. 
Value of claim
I know Mr and Mrs T think that there was no need for the claim to be moved to any complex 
team because following an initial video assessment, UKI had determined their property could 
be repaired for around £13,000. But I bear in mind that whilst UKI had assessed that value, it 
wasnt doing the reinstatement work and needed to see costs from Mr and Mrs Ts 
contractor. In January it received an estimate for reinstatement from Mr and Mrs Ts 
contractor for over £50,000. It then would have been unreasonable for UKI to progress 
without considering those costs. The estimated sum being so significantly higher than UKIs 
assessed value naturally meant the involvement of the complex team was required, as well 
as a surveyor. Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably in this respect.
Progress of the claim
As Ive said, the value of the claim, along with some concerns UKI noted with an invoice it 
had received, meant UKI felt a surveyor was needed. This was booked for February 2023, 
but then cancelled by Mr and Mrs T. I see that UKI tried to get it re-booked but their loss 
assessor wasnt inclined to allow involvement from the firm the surveyor was from. The visit 
was still outstanding at the end of March when UKIs final response was issued. Im satisfied 
that this is why there was little progress in the claim in February and March 2023. Whilst 
Mrs T was clearly vulnerable, I couldnt reasonably expect UKI to have foregone the 
assessment of a surveyor  not when it had queries about the work done and reinstatement. 
Outstanding invoice
I appreciate its important for Mr and Mrs T to have invoices paid. I know they feel UKI hasnt 
really investigated its concerns about the invoice it took issue with. They feel the case 
handler on 30 January 2023 should have asked questions, but didnt do so. But, from what 
Ive seen, the surveyors input was felt to be needed. In the period up to 23 March 2023, 
I think UKI acted reasonably regarding the invoice.   
Complaint resolution
I know Mr and Mrs T have said they complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
primarily so wed direct UKI with the claim going forwards. But whilst this service will often 
ask complainants what resolution theyre looking for and will sometimes make directions 
about the claim to resolve complaints, what we find to be the fair and reasonable resolution 
will vary in the circumstance of each case. Here, as of March 2023, Mr and Mrs Ts claim, 
and any points in dispute about it were not at deadlock  UKI had said it had changed the 
loss adjuster case handler, it was reasonably considering the disputed invoice as well as 
what was needed for reinstatement, and the AA situation had been resolved. So payment of 
costs and compensation are the fair and reasonable resolutions for consideration here.Payment for DA was outstanding when UKI issued its final response on 23 March 2023. As 
noted above payments were subsequently made and its now agreed to pay an additional 
sum. Ive said that payment should include interest.
In terms of compensation, UKI has paid Mr and Mrs T £750. Having taken everything into 
account, even accepting how they feel about the loss adjusters visit on 30 January 2023, 
I think that is fair and reasonable. I know Mr and Mrs T think we do or should pro-rate 
compensation at an hourly rate. But that is not how we assess compensation. As our 
Investigator noted, theres at most six weeks of delay in the period up until 23 March 2023. 
Mr and Mrs T were clearly caused a lot of upset during that time and they were also doing a 
lot to try and move things forwards. And an award of £750 reflects the top end of awards we 
make where theres: considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact 
lasts over many weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake 
has a serious short-term impact. Im satisfied that £750 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances here.
Final decision
Im aware that during our process, Mr and Mrs T have referenced taking court action. They 
should be aware that my decision, if they accept it within the deadline set, is binding on UKI. 
If they dont accept it, or do so late, UKI wont be bound by it. If they wish to pursue court 
action, they may wish to take legal advice before deciding whether or not accept the 
decision. Thats because they may not be able to accept it and still pursue in court any 
elements theyre dissatisfied with.  
Putting things right
UKI has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs T £750 to settle the outstanding disturbance allowance, 
plus interest* applied from 10 February 2023 until payment is made. If this, or any part of it, 
hasnt already been paid, it now should be.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman