DRN-3593040
The complaint
Mr B complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In July 2016 Mr B applied for, and was given a loan for £5,000, which was repayable over a 
period of 60 months. The repayments were around £180 a month, and in total Mr B agreed 
to pay back about £10,750 over the five years, once interest was added. 
Mr B says 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable. 
1Plus1 Loans says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and Mr B had enough 
disposable income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 1Plus1 Loans disagreed, so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr B 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr B would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. 
1Plus1 Loans did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But I agree with 
the investigator that given the total cost of repaying the money Mr B was borrowing, the 
information he had provided about his income and expenditure, together with the information 
on his credit file, 1Plus1 Loans checks werent good enough. 
1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of his income and got payslips to verify this. It asked him for details of his expenditure 
and verified this with third parties. It reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history 
and existing commitments. It also asked about the purpose of the loan, which Mr B said was 
for debt consolidation and what was left over would be used towards his wedding. From 
these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded that Mr B had enough monthly disposable 
income to afford the loan. But I dont think it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered 
when it made its lending decision. Ill explain why.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks, it concluded Mr B had a monthly disposable income of just 
over £500. This didnt include any payments towards the debts he was consolidating or the 
new loan. And on the face of it, this might suggest he did have enough to afford the monthly 
repayment. But the information 1Plus1 Loans had from Mr Bs credit file, shows this was 
unlikely.
The credit file showed Mr B had three active loan accounts with total outstanding balances of 
around £3,400, three credit or store cards with total outstanding balances of around £1,600 
and two mobile phone accounts with total outstanding balances of around £270. In total his 
outgoings in relation to credit look to have been around £380 a month before any accounts 
were consolidated. Mr B was behind with his payments towards one of the loans and one of 
the mobile phone accounts. So there were some signs Mr B was struggling financially.
Mr B was consolidating some of his outstanding debts  including the two accounts where 
he was behind with his payments. Based on the information 1Plus1 Loans used to decide 
the loan was affordable, Mr Bs disposable income before he took out the loan and 
consolidated the debts would have been about £370. If that were the true picture, it would 
suggest he should have had no difficulties meeting his existing credit commitments. But 
based on the information in his credit file he couldnt afford these. This throws doubt on 
whether the information hed given about his outgoings was accurate. So I would have 
expected 1Plus1 Loans to do some extra checks to verify the information.
The credit file shows Mr B had taken out a loan with another business about four months 
earlier. And around the same time he started falling behind with his payments towards one of 
the other loans. So it looks like he wasnt able to afford to make the payments towards them 
both.  
As Ive said, 1Plus1 Loans needed to check Mr B would be able to pay the loan sustainably. 
Being able to sustainably repay credit is doing so without undue difficulty, while being able to 
meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. By taking out the loan with 
1Plus1 Loans, Mr B was borrowing further to repay the credit he already had and couldnt 
afford. Giving someone who is already in financial difficulties additional credit, is unlikely to 
be considered responsible.
I appreciate the new loan did decrease Mr Bs monthly outgoings by about £50, but it 
increased his overall indebtedness, as he was borrowing more than he needed to 
consolidate the debts. And the reason it reduced his outgoings was because it had been 
taken over a longer term, meaning hed be paying more interest and be indebted for longer. I 
think the costs of consolidating some of his debts, and the disadvantages of prolonging the 
time Mr B would likely be indebted, significantly outweighed any perceived benefit. From the 
information 1Plus1 Loans had, I think it ought to have recognised that taking further lending 
was unlikely to help Mr B make inroads into his overall existing debt position. 
I also note Mr Bs credit file showed he had a previous loan account that had been defaulted 
some years earlier. This alone wouldnt be enough to say 1Plus1 Loans shouldnt have given 
him the new loan. But contrary to what 1Plus1 Loans has said, this debt likely was still 
recoverable and some payment towards it should have been included when Mr Bs 
outgoings were calculated. Its unlikely this would have made a significant difference but 
increases the likelihood the loan Mr B was given by 1Plus1 Loans wasnt affordable. 
While it would be helpful to have more information about Mr Bs financial situation in 2016, 
by way of bank statements for example, I dont think this is needed for me to make a fair 
decision. Based on the information we do have  and that 1Plus1 Loans had at the time  I 
think theres enough to say the loan more likely than not wasnt affordable. So I think it was 
wrong of 1Plus1 Loans to give the loan to Mr B. 
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in 
the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given the loan in question. However, this 
isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. 
Mr B was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr B back in the position he would be in if he 
hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way of putting 
things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think 1Plus1 Loans should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mr B has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any 
surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mr B in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman