DRN-3683668
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, made the decision to 
stop offering services to her and closed her account. Ms B is also unhappy that Virgin misled 
her about the balance of her account and with the standard of service she received when 
speaking with Virgin on the telephone, as well as that Virgin increased the overdraft limit on 
her account without her permission..
What happened
Ms B received a letter from Virgin advising her that theyd made the decision to no longer 
offer services to her and that as such they would be closing her account in two months time. 
Ms B wasnt happy about this, and she also felt that Virgin had given her incorrect 
information about the balance of her account on several occasions and had spoken to her 
rudely on the telephone. So, she raised a complaint.
Virgin looked at Ms Bs complaint. They confirmed that theyd made the decision to no longer 
offer services to Ms B, and while they were unable to locate the calls that Ms B referred to 
where shed been misadvised or spoken to rudely, Virgin accepted that Ms Bs testimony 
may have been correct and apologised to her. Finally, Virgin confirmed that theyd increased 
Ms Bs overdraft to try to help her, so that she wouldnt incur the unauthorised overdraft 
charges that she would otherwise have incurred, had they not increased the overdraft limit.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, and she also noted that Virgin had opened a 
new account for but then closed it soon afterwards, which she was also unhappy about. So, 
she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Virgin had treated 
Ms B unfairly in how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Ms B has referenced several other points of complaint to this 
service which arent described in the paragraphs above. However, I can confirm that I wont 
be addressing those further complaint points in this decision letter. This is because this 
service can only consider a point of complaint after the respondent business has had the 
opportunity to consider and respond to it themselves. And in this instance, the further 
complaint points that Ms B has referenced havent previously been considered by Virgin. 
Its my understanding that Virgin have recently raised a separate complaint themselves to 
consider Ms Bs further complaint points. When Virgin respond to that new complaint, it may 
be the case that Ms B is given the right to refer those new complaint points to this service. If 
that is the case, and if Ms B does refer her further complaint points to us, then this service 
will also consider those further complaint points as a separate complaint.
I can appreciate that Ms B might have been upset to learn that Virgin were no longer willing 
to offer services to her. However, in much the same way as a consumer can choose which 
bank or credit provider to apply to for an account, a business such as Virgin can also choose 
which customers to offer or continue to offer its services too. 
Indeed, I note that Virgins account terms and conditions include that Virgin can close a 
customers accounts at their discretion, so long as they provide that customer with two 
months notice of their intention to do so. And in this instance, Virgin did inform Ms B two 
months in advance that they would be closing her accounts. Accordingly, I dont feel that 
Virgin should reasonably be censured for closing Ms Bs accounts as they did, given that it 
was within their rights to do so, and given that they did so in line with the account terms.
Virgin have explained they made the decision to cease offering services to Ms B because 
they felt that the banking relationship between Ms B and themselves had broken down. This 
seems reasonable to me, especially in consideration of the evident continuing dissatisfaction 
that Ms B had with Virgin as evidenced by the large number of telephone calls she felt 
compelled to make to Virgin as well as the many points of complaint that shes made this 
service aware of.
One of these points of complaint is that Virgin increased the overdraft limit on her account 
without her permission. But Virgin have explained that they did this because Ms B had 
exceeded the agreed overdraft limit on her account, and because they wanted to ensure that 
Ms B didnt incur the unauthorised overdraft charges she would have incurred, had they left 
the overdraft limit in place as it was. Virgins position here seems reasonable to me. And I 
can understand why, after Ms B raised a complaint with Virgin about the action they had 
taken to try to help her, Virgin felt that their relationship with Ms B had broken down to the 
point where they no longer wanted to provide services to her.
Virgin have also accepted Ms Bs testimony that she was given incorrect information about 
her account balance and that she was spoken too rudely on the telephone, and Virgin have 
apologised to Ms B for this. It must be noted that Virgin made this apology on the basis of 
accepting Ms Bs testimony, but that they havent been able to locate the specific calls where 
these events had occurred. Virgin have explained that this is because Ms B has made a 
large number of calls to them, which makes locating specific incidents difficult.
But Virgin have accepted that their agents may have given Ms B incorrect information about 
the balance of her account, and explain that they feel that this would most likely be because 
their agent hadnt recognised that interest, charges, or a recent transaction were pending 
and would shortly change the account balance. Virgins acceptance of Ms Bs testimony here 
seems fair to me, and while I appreciate that Ms B may disagree, I dont feel that any further 
action is merited in this regard, beyond the apology that Virgin have already given.
Virgin have also acknowledged that, after giving notice to Ms B that they would be closing 
her accounts, they did then briefly open a new account for Ms B as she contends, although 
they closed it shortly afterwards. I can appreciate this may have been frustrating for Ms B. 
But the new account was closed in short order, and Ms B didnt use the new account at all 
during the brief period of time that it was open, and so I dont feel that there has been any 
impact here such that any further action from Virgin in regard to this point is warranted. 
Finally, Id like to confirm that the complaint points considered above are the only points that 
will be considered by this service at this time, and that any other complaint points Ms B may 
have should be raised with Virgin directly to give them the opportunity to consider and 
respond to them. These include, but arent limited to, Ms Bs complaint point about being required to go into branch on several occasions, which its evident that Virgin havent 
considered within their complaint response dated 24 November 2021. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Ms B was wanting, but it follows from all the above 
that I dont feel that Virgin have acted unfairly towards her in the manner under consideration 
here, and that therefore I wont be upholding her complaint or instructing Virgin to take any 
further action. I hope Ms B will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman