DRN-1884524
The complaint
Mr F complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a medical expenses 
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F travelled abroad on holiday on 13 August 2019. Unfortunately, he became unwell and 
was hospitalised on 20 August 2019. The treating doctor diagnosed Mr F with cauda equina 
and stated that he needed emergency spinal surgery. Mr Fs wife got in touch with IPAs 
medical assistance team to make a claim. Mr F underwent surgery.
IPA investigated the claim. It asked for a medical report from the treating doctor and for Mr 
Fs medical records from his GP. It acknowledged the medical report showed the surgery 
had been a medical emergency. But it noted the medical report stated that Mr F had had 
back pain on and off for years. And when it received information from Mr Fs GP, it noted 
that Mr F had seen the GP on 7 August 2019, suffering from low back pain and sciatica. 
Hed been prescribed pain medication and the GP said Mr F was aware of cauda equina 
symptoms and when to seek urgent medical attention.
So even though IPA accepted the surgery had been a medical emergency, it considered Mr 
Fs condition was a pre-existing medical condition, which was specifically excluded by the 
policy terms. It turned down Mr Fs claim.
Mr F was unhappy with IPAs decision and he complained. His GP provided a letter which 
said Mr F hadnt been suffering from symptoms of cauda equina during the consultation on 7 
August 2019. And the GP said Mr F had been fit to travel at that point. He also said he 
hadnt been asked to declare any medical conditions when he bought the policy. Mr F said 
hed been prescribed stronger pain relief medication in case of discomfort during his flight. 
He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She explained that his policy 
simply didnt cover medical conditions  there was no opportunity to disclose them. She felt 
Mr Fs back pain and sciatica fell within the policy definition of a pre-existing medical 
condition. And she felt both Mr Fs GP and his treating doctor abroad had connected his low 
back pain with the cauda equina hed suffered. So she considered it was reasonable for IPA 
to rely on its policy terms to turn down Mr Fs claim.
Mr F disagreed. Ive summarised his response. He said he hadnt been aware of cauda 
equina and the term hadnt been mentioned to him during his visit to the GP. Hed had no 
indication that his back pain could lead to a condition which would need emergency surgery. 
The GP had confirmed he had no signs or symptoms of cauda equina at that point. He didnt 
think his treating doctor abroad had linked his history of back pain with cauda equina  and 
indeed, the doctor had stressed it was a rare condition. The treating doctor had been 
prepared to make such a statement on Mr Fs behalf. 
And Mr F added that he didnt think it was fair that the terms of the policy didnt cover his 
situation. He referred to past decisions of this service when thered been a change in a 
policyholders health after theyd taken out a policy. He felt IPA hadnt answered questions 
hed put to it about the link itd drawn between his existing back pain and cauda equina. The 
situation has caused Mr F a great deal of distress and everyone hes spoken to agrees that 
IPA acted unfairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPA has treated Mr F fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered the circumstances of Mr Fs 
claim; the available medical evidence and the policy terms to decide whether I think IPA 
handled the claim fairly and reasonably.
When Mr F took out the policy, he was asked whether anyone to be insured by the policy 
suffered from any pre-existing medical conditions. As Mr F answered no, he was sold a 
policy that doesnt cover any pre-existing medical conditions. It sets out important health 
requirements. It says:
Claims arising directly or indirectly from any Pre-existing Medical Conditions affecting You 
prior to Your Trip (my emphasis) will not be covered.
For the purpose of this insurance, You are considered to have a Pre-existing Medical 
Condition if you answer Yes to any part of the following questions:
Do You have:
1. any past or current Medical or Dental Condition that has given rise to symptoms or 
for which any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation, 
investigation or follow-up/check-up has been required or received during the 2 years 
prior to the commencement of cover under this policy and/or prior to any Trip:
Ive looked carefully at the available medical evidence. Its clear that Mr F saw his GP on 7 
August 2019, six days before he travelled abroad, with symptoms of low back pain and 
sciatica. He was prescribed strong pain relief medication. So Im satisfied that his existing 
back pain and sciatica does fall within the scope of a pre-existing medical condition.
Next, Ive turned to consider whether Mr Fs claim for cauda equina was related to his pre-
existing back pain. Ive thought carefully about what Mr Fs said about the rarity of the 
condition and the GPs letter which states that Mr F wasnt suffering from signs of cauda 
equina on 7 August 2019. I entirely accept that Mr F may have thought it very unlikely that 
his back pain would result in a hospital admission and that it mustve been a real shock to 
him.
But in making my decision, I need to rely on the available medical evidence. In their initial 
response to IPAs medical assistance team, Mr Fs GP answered yes to whether hed ever 
been diagnosed with a medical condition. They went on to say:
Low back pain and left side sciatica 1) Analgesia2) Cont stretches 3) Advised to review 
if no better or worse, aware of cauda equina symptoms and when to seek urgent medical 
review.The GP also stated that Mr F had discussed his travel plans during the appointment. I 
appreciate Mr F says the GP hadnt mentioned cauda equina during this consultation and I 
accept this is possible. But Ive put significant weight on the GPs notes, because I think 
theyre likely to be an accurate reflection of what the GP recorded about Mr Fs visit. It 
seems to me that the GP was most likely to have mentioned symptoms of cauda equina to 
Mr F during the visit, because of the back pain and sciatica symptoms he was suffering from. 
And because there was a possibility that Mr F could quickly develop the signs of cauda 
equina and need emergency treatment either during his trip, or in due course.
Ive also looked at the medical report from the treating doctor abroad. He noted that Mr F 
had had back pain on and off for years. The doctor stated Mr F had noted bilateral leg pain 
and numbness. It says: he has a shooting pain and numbness that goes down his left leg to 
his thigh. It added that Mr F had noticed his left leg had been weak for a few days.
Its clear Mr F was experiencing pain in both legs by this point. But the left leg pain does 
seem to tie in with the left sided sciatica Mr F was suffering from when he saw his GP.
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, it does appear that there was a link between Mr 
Fs cauda equina and existing back pain and sciatica. I think the fact the GP likely discussed 
the symptoms of cauda equina with Mr F suggested that they felt there was a risk his 
condition might deteriorate. And the treating doctor mentioned Mr Fs previous back pain in a 
section marked history of present illness in his report. This suggests he felt this was 
relevant to Mr Fs overall diagnosis.
I appreciate Mr F says the treating doctor was prepared to provide evidence in support of his 
claim, but I havent seen any further medical evidence from the treating doctor. And while Mr 
Fs GP did say he wasnt suffering from cauda equina on 7 August 2019, they also havent 
suggested there wasnt a link between the back pain and sciatica he was suffering from on 
that day. 
Overall, I think it was fair for IPA to consider Mr Fs condition to be pre-existing and to turn 
down his claim.
I understand Mr F feels IPA didnt answer his specific questions while it was looking into his 
claim and complaint. I think it did tell Mr F why it wasnt paying his claim and the evidence 
itd relied on. But in any event, it isnt my role to tell an insurer how it should deal with claims 
 my role is to look at whether it did anything wrong that it needs to put right. And in this 
case, while I sympathise with Mr Fs position, I simply dont think IPA has done anything 
wrong that it needs to put right.
Mr F has also made reference to past decisions made by this service which he feels support 
his complaint. The circumstances of Mr Fs particular claim are different to the decisions hes 
mentioned. But its also important I make clear that each case is looked at independently 
and on its own merits. And in this case, Im satisfied IPA has treated Mr F fairly. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman