The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly. He also 
complains about marketing communications sent when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr B had two six-month instalment loans with Lending Stream, in January and April 2016 for 
£100 and £630.
An adjudicator considered Mr B's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. The 
adjudicator didn't think Lending Stream had acted irresponsibly when lending to Mr B and 
didn't think it needed to do any more to put things right in respect of the marketing 
correspondence. Mr B didn't agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Before lending to Mr B, Lending Stream asked him to provide some information about his 
income and expenditure. For the first loan, Mr B said his income was £1,977 per month and 
he provided information about his expenditure totalling £440. For the second loan the 
income and expenditure figures were £1,781 and £850 respectively.
Lending Stream also carried out credit checks. The credit checks said that Mr B didn't have 
any defaulted or delinquent accounts. The number of active accounts was 1 for the first loan 
and 3 for the second loan (which would include the other Lending Stream loan). The value of 
the active accounts was £400 at the time of the first loan and £1,200 at the time of the 
second.
Taking all of this into account, I don't think Lending Stream acted unfairly by lending to Mr B. 
The information Mr B provided on his applications indicated that he could afford the loans 
and I don't think the credit checks Lending Stream carried out significantly undermined that 
information. I also don't think the credit checks suggested Lending Stream needed to carry 
out any additional, or more in-depth, affordability checks.
DRN-1753100I appreciate that Mr B doesn't agree with this - and he's provided submissions referring to 
another case where this service found Lending Stream's checks to be inadequate. But we 
look at each case on its own merits, taking into account the individual circumstances. The 
score the credit bureau provided to Lending Stream was in the mid-range (unlike in the case 
Mr B quoted) and the broader information, provided both by Mr B and the credit bureau, 
wasn't indicative of the sort of financial difficulty which would make it inherently unfair to 
provide credit.
I can also understand why, given Mr B's circumstances, he wasn't happy to receive 
marketing emails from Lending Stream. But I think Lending Stream dealt with this point 
reasonably after Mr B complained about this and it stopped sending these emails.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr B but for the reasons given above I do not uphold 
his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr B's complaint against Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman