DRN-1975364
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) is handling a claim under a 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ps home and its contents were seriously damaged by fire in February 2019. He made a 
claim which was categorised as large and complex. Mr P wants a cash amount to settle the 
claim rather than allow UKI to carry out repairs. And hes unhappy with how UKI has handled 
the claim, particularly as he thinks UKI has deliberately delayed matters, not given him 
information about the process and has concerns with the alternative accommodation (AA) 
provided.
UKI instructed its loss adjusters to inspect the property and report what was required to 
reinstate the property and contents under the policy. Mr P instructed his own expert to put 
together a schedule of works (SOW) to reinstate the home.
There is a dispute about the extent of insured works required and Mr P didnt think UKIs loss 
adjusters did a full inspection. UKI said it couldnt accept Mr Ps SOW as it was inappropriate 
given it ran to around 350 pages and wasnt suitable to submit to a tender process. But Mr P 
disagreed and provided evidence of quotes hed obtained based on his SOW. UKI said it 
could offer a cash settlement but proposed instructing a single joint expert (SJE) to provide a 
new SOW based on all the information including Mr Ps lengthy SOW.
UKI agreed to offer a cash settlement based on the finding of the SJE but Mr P hasnt 
agreed to this. And theres dispute over other concerns including the rebuild cost of a 
pergola, which UKI says is actually a workshop under construction.
Our investigation
Our investigator didnt think UKIs initial SOW was complete but that this was a consequence 
of parts of the home being unsafe immediately after the loss. And she thought Mr Ps SOW, 
although lengthy, could be considered as Mr P had obtained quotes based on it and indeed 
UKI said the SJE could consider it. She noted that Mr P wanted a cash settlement and 
wasnt giving UKI the opportunity to carry out repairs. So, she said it was fair that UKI based 
a cash settlement on the amount it could repair the property for, and it was appropriate that 
the SOW reflected UKIs liability under the policy. Because of this, the investigator thought 
UKIs offer was a pragmatic solution for a SJE to be appointed to provide a report having 
access to all the information, including Mr Ps SOW. And UKI could then settle based on this 
independent report.
Regarding the pergola, UKIs loss adjuster reported it as a large workshopcurrently 
undergoing renovation. UKI had said it would cash settle for this too, but Mr P needed to 
provide evidence of planning permission and plans of what he was building. And UKI said it 
would pay based on how far Mr Ps renovation works had reached. Mr P said it was a 
pergola roof that didnt need planning permission and the works were done privately and UKI 
should pay for the structure.
The investigator wasnt persuaded it was a simple pergola as Mr P had said, and also noted 
the contents claimed for included high value items of construction tools and materials. 
Photos of Mr Ps property before the fire didnt show this structure so she thought it was 
something in the process of being built when the fire happened. She didnt think UKIs 
request for evidence of planning permission was unreasonable as if UKI was repairing the 
property its unlikely it would have reinstated a structure if no planning permission was in 
place. But if Mr P was right that no such permission was required the onus was on him to 
provide confirmation that this is the case. And if this was provided then UKI could fairly 
assess the amount to be included in a cash settlement.
Regarding the home contents, UKI had instructed an agent to inspect the contents and 
produce a list of items that Mr P could then provide replacement costs. And there are some 
higher value items that UKI says it wants substantiation from Mr P in terms of receipts, 
statements or order confirmations. UKIs concern is about proof of cost. The investigator said 
that as the issue was cost and not ownership Mr P could provide evidence from order 
confirmation emails, bank statements or the like. But as ownership wasnt an issue then 
Mr P could also provide like-for-like replacement costs from a retailer. The investigator also 
considered that it wasnt sufficient for Mr P to generalise on things like a box of children 
toyscablesplumbing material. She thought it wasnt unreasonable for UKI to want more 
particularised information.
Regarding AA and disturbance allowances, the investigator noted Mr Ps unhappiness with 
staying in a hotel and then the rental property which he said wasnt suitable, further away 
from his business and childrens school, he had to return home to feed the dog daily, and 
the rental property was carpeted which exacerbated allergies. The investigator pointed out 
that Mr P had the choice of two properties and chose one without looking at the other. She 
said it wasnt always possible for UKI to meet every requirement and there needed to be 
some compromise, and she didnt think the accommodation was unsuitable. The dog was 
purchased after the fire and so it wasnt unreasonable that UKI didnt offer to cover travel 
costs for this. But UKI had offered extra costs for travel for other matters and reasonably told 
Mr P what he needed to provide to substantiate these costs. UKI had made a payment for 
disturbance allowance which was reasonable and in line with the usual approach of £10 per 
adult and £5 per child, while without usual living facilities such as a kitchen. 
Acknowledging the difficulties experienced because of the fire and necessary claim, the 
investigator wasnt persuaded UKI was responsible for any significant delay and it kept Mr P 
updated regularly. It took around three months to validate the claim initially but because of 
the circumstances (fire by arson) UKI acted reasonably in requesting information which was 
reluctantly given by Mr P which contributed to delay.
The investigator thought UKI had acted within the policy terms and fairly in all the 
circumstances.
Mr P disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions set out the contractual relationship between Mr P and UKI. 
The policy sets out what UKI will and will not cover in terms of insured events, and it also 
contains conditions, exclusions and limitations. The crux of the complaint is about the way UKI has (so far) handled the fire damage claim 
and its with that in mind Ill explain why Im not persuaded to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
against UKI. For the sake of clarity our investigation covers events up to the date of UKIs 
final response which is 31 May 2019. There is a large amount of information that the parties 
have provided, which Ive fully considered but may not refer to it in detail.
In many respects the claim at the point of UKIs final response was in its very early stages 
with UKI fully investigating the circumstances and whether the claim was covered; full 
scoping of damage to be confirmed and agreed; and dealing with the immediacy of 
alternative accommodation for Mr P and his family.
Theres no dispute now that Mr Ps claim is covered and UKI has been working towards 
settling that claim, both for the buildings and contents damage. Its also clear that the claim 
is of high value and complex in so far as the cost of damage and the extent of what is 
needed to repair the building. Im mindful of UKIs obligations under regulatory rules, 
including (but not limited to) the duty to handle the claim promptly and fairly. Whats prompt 
and fair will depend on the circumstances.
In deciding whether a claim is covered under the policy UKI is entitled to investigate it. In this 
case there was an alleged criminal act and UKI made enquiries in relation to this. And it also 
instructed a loss adjuster to inspect the property, but a full inspection couldnt take place 
because of safety concerns. But the deadlock, if I can describe it as that, is a consequence 
of a dispute over the schedule of works. Mr Ps obtained a lengthy one that UKI doesnt think 
is appropriate to put out to tender and UKIs schedule doesnt factor everything in because 
its initial inspection wasnt in full because of safety. I think a fair settlement can only be 
reached when the parties have been able to fully scope whats needed.
Mr Ps wish to have a settlement in cash as opposed to UKI repairing the property, means 
an amount cant be reached until theres an agreed schedule of works. Im satisfied UKI has 
offered a sensible and proportionate resolution to this deadlock, which is to instruct a single 
joint expert (SJE). If UKI hasnt confirmed it will pay for this SJE then it should do so. The 
SJE will necessarily have to be given access to relevant documentation and may have to 
inspect the property. UKI and Mr P will need to agree the instructions and the documentation 
that the SJE has access to. But this is a necessary and important part of the claim process 
and will require the parties to act in good faith and a facilitative way.
The pergola that Mr P wants included as part of the cash settlement is not, in my view, the 
simple pergola that he has tried to convey. From the photographs Im satisfied UKIs 
approach to it being an extension or workshop is reasonable. Indeed, UKIs loss adjuster, 
who I accept as sufficiently qualified in such matters, described it as such and under 
construction. And in the absence of planning permission for the structure I think UKIs refusal 
to pay unless there is evidence of planning permission, or it being a permitted development 
not requiring permission, is reasonable. This is because UKI wouldnt be able to erect a 
structure that needed planning permission if no permission had been granted. This could of 
course lead to breaches of relevant regulations around the construction of extensions / 
buildings. Once evidence of permission has been provided UKI has said it will pay the 
appropriate amount. Im satisfied thats a fair and proportionate approach.
There is a dispute on the contents side of things. The policy claim conditions require Mr P to 
give UKI relevant information and evidence that it requests, which includes matters such as 
proof of ownership or the value of damaged items and written estimates for repair. And it 
says that Mr P will have to do this at his own expense. In addition, Mr P must allow UKI or its 
appointed suppliers to access the property to inspect it or inspect damaged items. Among 
the things that the policy doesnt cover are certain items held or used for business purposes. So, where there are items that appear to be of a business nature then Mr P will need to 
show that, on balance, they are not.
I think in this case it would be disproportionate for UKI to insist on proof of value and written 
estimates for every damaged item. But its not doing that and has instead only asked for 
proof of value on certain higher value items. Im satisfied UKI has adopted a fair and 
proportionate approach and Mr P should be able to provide some information from 
confirmation orders or payment by card or emails or something that shows the value of the 
items claimed that UKI has asked for. 
On the alternative accommodation issue, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly. It placed Mr P 
and his family in a hotel initially. And then UKI facilitated the offer of two available properties 
and gave Mr P details. Im mindful that these properties arent part of UKIs property estate 
but are in fact owned by private individuals. Mr P viewed one property and accepted a 
tenancy based on the inspection. Issues with the property are generally matters for the 
landlord and not UKI. Thats because there is legislation in place that requires landlords to 
comply with certain standards of health and safety. Mr P wasnt compelled by UKI to accept 
this property, but he did so based on his viewing. Im not persuaded UKI did anything wrong 
or should be held responsible for issues that the landlord is ultimately responsible for. 
I do appreciate that the fire and the extent of damage required upheaval in Mr P and his 
familys circumstances. I dont doubt that Mr P having to relocate was stressful. UKI of 
course though is not responsible for the fire or the impact it had on Mr P. And Im satisfied 
UKI has been handling the claim in as inclusive and reasonable way with Mr P. In order to 
move the claim to a successful conclusion Mr P and UKI will need to work together to agree 
a schedule of work for damage covered under the policy such that UKI can fairly assess the 
cost. The amount UKI will need to pay is that which it would cost UKI to carry out the repairs. 
UKI may obtain preferential rates from its contractors and as Mr P has insisted on a cash 
settlement from the start, and so not allowing UKI to carry out repairs, its fair that UKI pays 
Mr P the amount it would have paid for insured repairs. So, while Mr P may think UKI should 
pay the estimates hes obtained thats not the deciding factor of the extent of UKIs liability.
There remain some more general points as follows;
Mr Ps not content with the disturbance allowance hes been paid but Im satisfied 
UKI has paid a fair amount. The payment covered up to the point Mr P moved in to a 
rented home and so at that point he had all the usual necessary facilities (heating, 
cooking, toilets and washing) for living as opposed to the limits within a hotel room.
Im satisfied UKI took a fair approach to additional travel costs given the rental 
property was an additional few miles from Mr Ps home. It asked Mr P to provide 
evidence of additional fuel charges but said it wouldnt cover visits to look after the 
dog as it was purchased after the fire. Im satisfied thats fair given the dog was an 
after-fire purchase and so Mr P would have been aware of the challenges that would 
raise for him.
In summary, up to the complaint period of 31 May 2019, Im satisfied UKI acted within the 
policy terms and offered a way forward that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The complexity and size of the claim is such that it requires UKI and Mr P to work together to 
reach resolution. And Im not persuaded that UKI has failed to treat Mr P fairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman