DRN-2725538
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly declined a 
claim for water damage under her home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mrs D noticed that the carpet was wet on the ground floor of her home and that the water 
seemed to be entering from outside. She arranged for a builder to carry out some repairs. 
However, this didnt stop the water getting in. So, Mrs D contacted Fairmead to make a claim 
on her home insurance.
Fairmead sent a surveyor to assess the damage, but couldnt find a leak within the property 
and couldnt identify how the water was entering the property. Fairmead said it wouldnt 
accept the claim unless Mrs D was able to provide evidence that the damage was caused by 
an insured risk.
The local water company and Mrs Ds surveyor held a meeting at Mrs Ds home to try and 
identify the source of the water entering her home. A Fairmead surveyor also attended. The 
local water company thought it was most likely that spring water was entering the property. 
So, Fairmead confirmed to Mrs D that the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs D complained to Fairmead. When Fairmead replied, it maintained its decision that the 
water damage wasnt caused by something for which she had cover under the policy.
So, Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Fairmead had acted reasonably by declining the claim, as there wasnt evidence to 
show that it was covered by the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mrs D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive looked at why water was entering Mrs Ds home. The local water company investigated 
where the water was most likely to be coming from. It decided that it was probably caused by 
local springs. This was because water tests didnt find any evidence of chlorine, sewage or 
phosphate, which confirmed that the source of the water wasnt something that the water 
company was responsible for.
The local council also tried to identify the source of the water. Ive read an email that the 
council sent to Mrs D. This said that trial holes had been dug and the source of the water 
hadnt been found. However, the local area was prone to springs emerging randomly and 
the council undertook interception work where possible to discharge the water into the sewer 
network. I note that when Mrs D passed on the councils email to Fairmead she said the 
email confirmed the water was from a spring and that the precise source couldnt be located 
because it was under houses further up the street.
I understand that it was also suggested to Mrs D that she could arrange for the water 
entering her home to be tested to see if it contained any iron, as this might have shown 
whether the water was coming from local mines. However, she was unable to do this as the 
water had stopped by this point.
Ive also read a report written by Mrs Ds surveyor. This said that the water company and the 
council had indicated that the water was spring water rather than from a leaking domestic 
pipe. The report then described what works would need to be carried out in order to prevent 
the water from entering the property in future. It didnt suggest any alternative sources for the 
water.
Im aware that Mrs D has said a nearby neighbour had a water leak from a pipe and that the 
water stopped entering her own home when the leak was repaired. However, the water 
companys investigation didnt find any evidence of mains water entering Mrs Ds home. So, 
although I can understand why Mrs D thought the water leak was the source of the water, I 
havent seen anything that shows that the two issues were connected.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think its more likely than not that the water was coming 
from an underground spring.
Fairmead seemed to consider Mrs Ds claim under the accidental damage part of the policy. 
This has a specific exclusion for damage caused by water entering the policyholders home. 
So I can see why Fairmead didnt accept the claim. However, I dont think Fairmead 
considered the claim under the correct part of the policy. I think it should have been 
considered under the flood part of the policy.
The policy doesnt define what Fairmead regards as a flood, but it would normally be 
considered to be when water builds up and enters a property. Given what has been 
described in this case, I think thats what happened here. So, Ive thought about whether the 
claim should have been accepted under this part of the policy. 
In the flood section, the policy booklet lists an exclusion for Loss or damage caused by 
underground water. The damage seems to have happened in that way, so Ive thought 
about whether applying this exclusion was reasonable. There is no definition of underground 
water in the policy. Without a definition, I think that the exclusion is so broad that it could be 
used to rule out a range of claims that a consumer could reasonably expect to be accepted 
under the Flood peril. 
Fairmead hasnt explained the purpose of this exclusion so that it can be assessed whether 
it is reasonably applied to an individual claim. For example, although an insurer might accept 
a claim for theft, it might have an exclusion where there is no force and violence. This is 
often to enable an insurer to turn down a claim where a policyholder has failed to take basic 
security measures. But isnt clear why this broad and undefined exclusion for underground 
water is included in this policy. So, I dont think Fairmead can rely on this exclusion and so I 
am currently of the view that it should consider Mrs Ds claim under this part of the policy.
Im also aware that Mrs D was unhappy that Fairmead didnt do more to help her find the 
source of the water entering her home. However, I dont think it was Fairmeads 
responsibility to keep investigating the claim until it found the source of the leak. An insurer 
will often send a surveyor as part of that process but, so long as the insurer carries out an 
appropriate investigation, they can show that they have carried out a proper investigation of 
the claim. Having read the surveyors findings from the first visit and from when the surveyor 
attended the meeting with the water company, I think the surveyors investigations and 
findings were reasonable and showed that they considered a range of sources for the water 
entering the property.So, thinking about all of the above, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require 
Fairmead to consider this claim under the flood part of the policy. I also intend to require 
Fairmead to pay Mrs D £200 compensation due to the distress and inconvenience she has 
described because of the way that her claim has been dealt with.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 26 March 2021.
Mrs D agreed with the decision.
Fairmead provided a number of comments:
As there was no definition in the policy, Fairmead would define Flood based on the 
dictionary definition of an overflow of a large amount of water beyond its normal limits, 
especially over what is normally dry land and that the definition I had used was 
incorrect.
It said there was no evidence there was a large amount of water. If there had been, it 
would have expected neighbouring properties to be affected. It didnt think the claim 
came under the definition of flood. 
However, had there been a flood, it would have looked to the exclusion for underground 
water.
It explained its reasoning for its broad approach, which was that the loss had to be 
fortuitous and as such not reasonably foreseeable and a one off event.
It said no policy booklet provided an explanation for an exclusion, as this is a commercial 
decision.
My decision meant all household policies and booklets for all insurers are wrong.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons that I gave in my 
provisional decision. Ive read the comments from Fairmead and they havent persuaded me 
to change my view. I will, however, clarify some points made by Fairmead. Ive read all of 
Fairmeads comments and considered them, even if I dont comment on them here.
The definition I used for a flood is in line with the definition this service would normally use in 
flood cases and not one that Ive created for the purposes of this case. Based on my 
consideration of the case, Im still of the view that flood is the correct peril. 
As part of making my provisional decision, I carefully considered whether the exclusion for 
underground water applied in this case, including the points that Fairmead has now raised. I 
also looked at some relevant case law to see whether I thought it applied in this case or 
affected my consideration. Having done so, I decided the exclusion didnt apply. My view is 
that the source of the water was a sudden and unforeseeable event. I wasnt making a 
decision about the industry as a whole or how it should operate. My decision is based on the 
individual circumstances of this case, taking into account the information and evidence from 
both parties.
  
Putting things right
Fairmead should consider the claim under the flood part of the policy and pay Mrs D £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this case. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Consider the claim under the flood part of the policy, without recourse to the exclusion 
clause for underground water.
Pay Mrs D £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman