DRN-2484565
The complaint
Mr T complains that Arrow Global Limited has been chasing him for a debt which he 
disputes is his. He wants it to stop collection activities directed at him.
What happened
Mr T tells us that Arrow has been harassing him in the way its trying to collect a debt which 
he disputes. He says its ignored his request for various information about the debt. In 
particular he says it hasnt provided a deed of assignment. And that its continued to seek 
collection of the debt even after he sent it a cease and desist letter. He says that the debt 
doesnt appear on his credit file.
Arrow told us that it had purchased the debt from a business Ill refer to a C, in 2011. And 
that one of its collection agents had obtained a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against Mr T 
in 2012 in relation to this debt. It said that as the legitimate owner of the debt it was entitled 
to contact Mr T to seek to resolve the balance. In respect of an issue relating to a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) it said it partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and had awarded him £150 
by way of compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 December 2020. I said that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint. And that I found that Arrow had reasonable grounds for 
believing that Mr T owed the relevant debt.
Since then both parties have replied. Arrow said it had nothing to add. Mr T didnt agree with 
my provisional decision and felt that Id said that Arrow could chase an unenforceable debt.
I thank both parties for their responses. Ill deal with the issues raised, in my final decision 
which is set out below. But Im not minded to change my view on the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset, that theres been reference to a CCJ supposedly made in 2012. 
Ive not been supplied with a copy of that judgment  apparently the company which is said 
to have obtained that judgment on behalf of Arrow is no longer in business. And as CCJs 
are removed from the register of judgments after six years  and also from credit files  that 
may account for no record of it now being available.
Where a CCJ has been issued, this service wouldnt usually be able to deal with a complaint 
about the way in which enforcement activity relating to the judgment is being conducted. 
Thats because enforcement of a CCJ is not a regulated financial activity nor ancillary to it. 
And Id have had to find the complaint fell outside our jurisdiction. But as the parties have 
been unable to supply a copy of the judgment, Im not able to say that it falls outside our 
jurisdiction. So Ive decided to issue a decision on the merits of the complaint.
I accept that most of us would find it disconcerting to be chased for a debt if we were not the 
person liable to repay it.
Mr Ts complaint is that Arrow is asking him to pay for a debt that he disputes is his. And he 
further complains it hasnt provided all the information about the debt which hes requested.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
This service is an informal resolution service. And as an ombudsman Im required to make 
my decisions in accordance with the rules which are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) sourcebook and Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000.
The most relevant rules are:
DISP 3.6.1
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice;
The effect of the above is that I dont apply the law directly  but I take it into account. This 
means my decisions may be different to that which a court might reach if it was able to look 
at the same issue. Although here I believe theres a very high probability that a court would 
reach the same decision regarding the legitimacy of Arrow seeking to collect the debt.
Financial businesses are also required to follow the rules of the FCA. And relevant rules 
relating to this complaint are (my underlining):
CONC 6.5.2
(1) Where rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that 
firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer:
(a) as soon as reasonably possible;
CONC 7.5.3A firm must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been settled or is 
disputed and must not continue to make demands for payment without providing clear 
justification and/or evidence as to why the customers claim is not valid.
In response to the issues raised by Mr T in his reply to my provisional decision I restate the 
same points that I made in that view.
I emphasise that Im not able to decide (in the same way that a court might do) that Mr T is 
liable for this debt or if its enforceable against him. What I have to determine is if Arrow 
reasonably believes he is the person who owes the debt. And that its entitled to seek 
repayment from him. Also, if the way its gone about doing that is fair.
Ive been supplied with a copy of the application form in relation to the debt. This records Mr 
Ts full name and address (which both match the records hes given to this service). Also his 
correct date of birth; occupation and a phone number. Ive also been supplied with a copy of 
the notice of assignment; contact notes and details of payments made. The combination of 
all these elements leads me to conclude that to a high degree of probability its reasonable 
for Arrow to believe that Mr T owes the debt. And that its justified in seeking repayments 
from him.
Mr T also raised the issue that the notice of assignment is not itself proof that Arrow now 
owns the debt. But recent case law in 2019 suggests that where the respective businesses 
(here thats C and Arrow) consider there has been a valid assignment of a debt then the 
debtor is unable to challenge this.
Mr Ts suggestion that - by sending three letters to Arrow seeking the information regarding 
the deed of assignment and asking it to cease and desist from contacting him about the 
debt - it was required to stop collection activity, is not supported by legislation or FCA rules.
I understand that it would be stressful to be contacted about a debt  whilst the debt was 
disputed. But Ive seen nothing in the manner or frequency of contact to cause me to think 
Arrow has taken other than reasonable steps in pursuing a debt it owns. 
In summary, I find that Arrow has acted on reasonable grounds and that it has been entitled 
to seek repayment of the debt from Mr T. Im satisfied its provided him with sufficient 
justification and information to invalidate his claim to not owe this debt.
Accordingly, I shant be asking Arrow to stop enforcement or collection activities. And Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman