DRN-3021589
Complaint
Miss M has complained about Bank of Scotland Plcs (BOS) decision to withdraw her 
overdraft. She doesnt think that BOS should have removed the facility.
Background
Miss M also complained about matters relating to her mortgage. But another ombudsman 
has looked at that complaint and issued a final decision. So notwithstanding the fact that 
Miss M considers that her overdraft and mortgage complaints are inextricably linked, this 
decision is only looking at BOS actions in relation to withdrawing her overdraft.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Ms complaint. While he thought that some of the 
messaging in branch could have been clearer, BOS was entitled to withdraw the overdraft 
when it did and therefore it hadnt treated Miss M unfairly. Miss M disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Miss M got in contact with BOS and made it aware she was in financial 
difficulty in July 2019. And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its 
regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an 
understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move 
forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Miss M, BOS agreed to stop adding interest, fees and 
charges to her overdraft and also put her on a reducing repayment plan. This was to provide 
some breathing space while more appropriate longer-term options were explored. The 
reducing plan couldnt be a long-term solution in itself because it wasnt reducing the 
overdraft enough to repay it within a reasonable period of time. In October 2019, BOS 
placed a further temporary freeze on interest being added. But as Miss M wasnt able to 
reduce the overdraft by enough to repay it within a reasonable period of time, BOS decided 
to begin corrective action in relation to the overdraft and withdrew it.
I know Miss M says that she was misled by BOS and that she wouldnt have agreed to any 
repayment plans had it been made clearer to her that her overdraft would be withdrawn. I do 
sympathise with what Miss M has told us. I fully appreciate shes gone through a difficult 
time and understand why shes unhappy with adverse information being recorded on her 
credit file and worried about the impact this will have on her. 
But Miss Ms account conduct suggested that her difficulties werent temporary. And I dont 
think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue ignoring Miss Ms 
obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably 
unsustainable for her, indefinitely. So even if Miss M hadnt agreed to a repayment plan or 
wanted BOS to withdraw the overdraft, I would have, in any event, expected BOS to have 
begun the process of taking corrective action in relation to the facility anyway.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And asking BOS to reinstate the overdraft here when it seems 
unlikely Miss M will be able to repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, would 
arguably be counterproductive and not in Miss Ms interests or that of any future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for BOS to begin the 
process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss Ms overdraft when it did and issue a 
formal demand notice, offering Miss M the opportunity bring his account up-to-date before it 
would take any action. As this is the case and Miss M didnt, or wasnt able to, take steps to 
comply with the formal demand for payment, Im satisfied that BOS was entitled to withdraw 
Miss Ms overdraft. 
So having considered everything, while I appreciate there may have been some 
miscommunication in branch, overall, I dont think that BOS treated Miss M unfairly or 
unreasonably. And this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will 
be very disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman