DRN-4212556
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the losses his pension fund with Scottish Equitable Plc trading as 
AEGON have suffered. Mr K understood his pension to be in a low risk fund but it has lost 
around 25% of its value. He believes it may have been mismanaged.
What happened
Mr K held a personal pension with AEGON. Prior to December 2017 AEGON sent him two 
letters explaining why a change to a pension wrapper on its Retiready platform would be 
beneficial. The letter explained if Mr K didn't want the transfer to proceed, he needed to let it 
know  but AEGON received no response. 
The transfer into the new Retiready self-invested personal pension (SIPP) wrapper occurred 
on 15 December 2017.  The fund remained invested in the Balanced Lifestyle fund (approx. 
78%) and the Scottish Equitable Universal fund (approx. 22%) that Mr K had held under the 
personal pension. At its highest Mr Ks fund value was around £139,000. By the time he'd 
complained the value had dropped to £90,000.
AEGON said it was not responsible for Mr Ks losses. Its told us that the information 
available to him on its portal, explains it is the responsibility of the customer to monitor their 
investments. And its not authorised to give any form of financial advice, so it wouldn't have 
been able to guide him to which fund would be suitable.
It said global issues affecting the stock market was the underlying reason for the funds 
volatility and with it being a lifestyle fund and Mr K approaching retirement, it then moved 
into very safe lower-risk investments. So the opportunity to ride out the volatility that a long 
term investment has, wasnt present here.
As an aside AEGON paid Mr K £350 as it took longer than eight weeks to send its response 
to Mr K.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think AEGON had done anything wrong. She 
felt the reduction in his fund was most likely down to market volatility affecting the whole 
sector and not any mismanagement on the fund managers part. 
Mr K in response said that hed contacted AEGON when the fund had only lost about £2,000 
and spoke to a lady who said hed receive further contact but he heard nothing further. Mr K 
said had he been given proper information then, he wouldve got an adviser to help him or 
moved his funds to a safer environment.
Our investigator asked for the relevant evidence from both parties, AEGON had no record of 
this contact. And the records Mr K provided, were in line with AEGONs. And so the 
investigator concluded there was no evidence of this earlier contact and so she couldnt take 
it into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully understand why Mr K is unhappy, his fund has suffered a large drop in value in a 
fairly short space of time. But poor performance in itself is not a reason to uphold a 
complaint. Funds can go up and down and Id need to see evidence of fund mismanagement 
or that there was an error with the administration of Mr Ks pension for a complaint to be 
upheld.
So, while I havent been able to consider the investment performance itself as a reason to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint, I have considered if AEGON have made any errors in managing 
the investments.
Having done so, Ive seen no evidence that AEGON mismanaged Mr Ks pension. Or that 
any action or omission by AEGON caused the fall in value Mr K suffered. I agree with the 
investigators view that returns from investments such as this were not guaranteed, and the 
amount invested can fall as well as rise. This is the very nature of investments as their 
performance is dependent on many external factors which cant be controlled by AEGON.
Unfortunately for Mr K at the time he suffered losses, external factors such as the war in 
Ukraine had meant many investments suffered large downturns. Many of these funds will 
have recovered but Mr K was mostly invested in a lifestyle fund and as Mr K was close to 
retirement, he was moved into lower risk funds. The result of this is lower volatility but also 
less opportunity to recover losses made at the low point of the market. It appears that the 
timing of Mr Ks retirement age alongside world events has been very unfortunate for Mr K. 
But AEGON couldnt have predicted this, and it also couldnt advise or switch Mr Ks funds 
for him. 
Ive checked as the investigator did the performance of the funds against industry norms for 
that time, and there is no evidence of fund mismanagement on the part of the fund manager. 
The performance of the funds has mirrored the relevant ABI sectors, (The ABI Fund Sectors 
is a system for the classification of unit-linked life and pension funds with similar investment 
strategies). And so I consider the losses are most likely down to the economic climate at the 
time rather than anything the fund manager did wrong.
Mr K says he was unaware he had to monitor the investments, but AEGON have provided 
evidence of the terms and conditions and key features document, both of which state it is the 
customer who controls investment decisions. 
So I agree with our investigator that it was up to Mr K to decide how his pension was 
invested  even if he wasnt aware of this. But I cant hold AEGON responsible for that. And I 
also agree that although AEGON administer Mr Ks pension, they dont have an ongoing 
advisory role. Therefore they cannot review Mr Ks investments to ensure they remain 
suitable at all times. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Ks pension plans were invested 
incorrectly by AEGON. From what Ive seen, theyve remained invested in the way they were 
instructed. So Ive found no evidence of mismanagement by AEGON.
Mr K said that he feels an opportunity to move or switch funds before the losses set in was 
lost, as hed contacted AEGON prior to this but hadnt received the information hed 
requested. Unfortunately Mr K has been unable to provide evidence supporting this, and the 
evidence he has provided supports what AEGON has told us that the first contact regarding 
this issue was after significant losses had already occurred. So Im unable to place any 
weight on Mr Ks testimony as it isnt supported by the available evidence.In conclusion, I have every sympathy with Mr K and Im sorry to learn of the unfortunate 
losses his pension fund has suffered. But this sometimes can be the reality of investing 
money  even in lower to medium risk funds. Funds can go up and down and around the 
time of his losses, unprecedented world events were causing economic uncertainty. Due to 
Mr Ks investment strategy, his fund hasnt had as much opportunity to recover these losses, 
but this isnt something I can hold AEGON responsible for. I say this because the evidence 
supports that it has invested Mr Ks fund in line with his instructions and in a suitable manner 
for the funds objectives.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman