DRN-4250711
The complaint
Miss B complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) added incorrect information to her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss B held a current account, with an arranged overdraft, and RBS wrote to her to say it 
was closing her account. RBS gave Miss B 60 days notice and said she should repay any 
overdraft she had before the account closed.
Miss B says she couldnt afford to clear the overdraft in one go, and tried to set up a 
payment plan, but RBS wouldnt agree one. Miss Bs account closed, owing money, and 
RBS passed this debt out to a debt collector.
Miss B repaid the overdraft, in full, through the debt collector. Miss B then saw RBS had 
recorded adverse information on her credit file, and she complained.
RBS responded to say the information it had recorded was correct and wouldnt change it. 
But RBS accepted it had provided some poor service and offered Miss B £100 to 
compensate for this and offered to refund £8.60 in charges.
Miss B brought her complaint to this service. As part of RBS submissions to this service it 
said it had since defaulted Miss Bs account. An investigator looked into things and thought 
Miss Bs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought the default was unfair as RBS hadnt notified Miss B of its intention 
to default her account. The investigator also thought RBS should have set up a payment 
plan for Miss B, as shed been able to agree one with the debt collector.
The investigator thought RBS should remove the default and any adverse data from Miss Bs 
credit file from April 2022 and pay Miss B a further £150 to compensate her.
Miss B agreed with this outcome. RBS didnt, and said its 60 days notice letter was clear in 
the consequences if Miss B didnt pay her overdraft off. RBS also said the requirement for a 
default notice, as laid out in the consumer credit act (1974) (CCA) didnt apply to overdrafts.
Unable to reach any agreement, Miss Bs complaint was referred to an ombudsman to 
decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS is entitled to end its relationship with Miss B and tell her its closing her current account. 
This is laid out in the terms and conditions of the account, and I think RBS gave Miss B 
sufficient notice of its intention to close her account.
But Miss B isnt complaining about the closure of her account, shes complaining about the 
lack of help in repaying the overdraft and how the repayment is recorded on her credit file.
RBS has said it wouldnt have looked to enter into a payment plan with Miss B because it 
was closing her account. But I dont think this is fair. Miss Bs explained to this service she 
couldnt repay her debt in one go, but could pay it off over a short period.
RBS has an obligation to treat consumers experiencing financial difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. Among the options open to RBS is agreeing a payment plan.
Regardless of the fact RBS was closing Miss Bs account, not exploring a payment plan with 
her, isnt, I think, treating Miss B fairly. When Miss B did agree a payment plan, with the debt 
collector, she paid off the debt in five months, a relatively short amount of time.
I think RBS should have agreed a payment plan with Miss B.
RBS has said it didnt send a default notice prior to applying a default to Miss Bs account. 
RBS has also said sections 87 to 89 inclusive of the CCA, which lay out the rules around 
defaults, dont apply to overdrafts.
The consumer credit source book (CONC), in section 5C.5.1, says An arranged overdraft 
is the running-account facility provided for in an authorised non-business overdraft 
agreement that is a regulated credit agreement.
The CCA mentions running-account credit in section 10, Part II, where other regulated 
agreements are defined. 
And section 61B of the CCA says businesses have a duty to supply a copy of any overdraft 
agreement. Im unsure why this provision would exist if overdrafts werent regulated 
agreements.
Overall, Im satisfied Miss Bs overdraft was regulated by the CCA.
Section 87 of the CCA says Service of a notice on the debtor or hirer in accordance with 
section 88 (a default notice) is necessary before the creditor or owner can become entitled, 
by reason of any breach by the debtor or hirer of a regulated agreement (a) to terminate the 
agreement.
Since Im satisfied the overdraft was a regulated agreement, and RBS was looking to 
terminate the agreement, by registering a default, Im satisfied sections 87 to 89 apply.
I think RBS had a requirement to send Miss B a default notice, laying out what she owed, 
what she needed to repay and what the consequences would be if she didnt repay.
And I think this would have made a difference, I think Miss B would have either repaid the 
debt or entered into a payment plan, acceptable to both parties, to avoid the default.
I dont think RBS fairly defaulted Miss Bs account. RBS might be entitled to start the default 
process again, if Miss B still owed it money on her overdraft. But Miss B has repaid the debt, 
so I think the fair outcome would be for RBS to remove the default.Miss B was able to repay her overdraft within five months once it had been passed to the 
debt collectors. Had RBS told Miss B it would default her if she didnt pay, I think Miss B 
would have paid sooner.
Depending on how quickly Miss B repaid her overdraft would also affect whether it was fair 
for RBS to record the payment plan as an arrangement to pay on her credit file, or simply 
record the account as being up to date.
When RBS didnt give Miss B a chance to avoid the default, it also stopped Miss B entering 
into a payment plan that may not have adversely affected her credit file.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Bs credit file, and she has no other adverse information or late 
payments to other lenders, or to other lending with RBS. I think Miss B would have taken 
steps to ensure her credit file stayed free of adverse information.
In the individual circumstances of Miss Bs complaint, I dont think its fair for RBS to record 
an arrangement to pay, or any other adverse information, in respect of her current account 
on her credit file.
Miss B has explained the impact the defaults had on her. Miss B has said shes been very 
worried about her ability to continue renting as her current landlords carry out regular credit 
checks. Miss B also said the defaults having a massive impact on her day to day.
I accept this, and I think the existence of this default will have had a very distressing impact 
on Miss B. 
RBS had previously offered to compensate Miss B £100, and refund £8.60 in charges. But at 
that point RBS hadnt defaulted Miss Bs account.
Miss Bs been caused further distress after RBS initial offer, so I think RBS should 
compensate Miss B further.
Overall, I think a total payment of £250, to compensate Miss B for the poor service RBS 
provided in not agreeing a payment plan and the effect the defaults had on her is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, in respect of 
Miss Bs current account, should:
remove the default from Miss Bs credit file
remove any adverse information its added to Miss Bs credit file since April 2022
refund Miss B the £8.60 of charges its already offered
pay Miss B a total of £250 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman