DRN-3428235
The complaint
Ms S, through a representative, says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms S took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go on 20 December 2018. It was
for £500 and the monthly repayments were £113.28. The total repayable was £2,039.04.
Ms S says Loans 2 Go didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks. She already had a
considerable number of credit commitments with short-term high-cost lenders and could not
afford more debt.
Our investigator said Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. She thought the lenders checks
showed Ms S would have been unlikely to be able to make her repayments sustainably.
Loans 2 Go disagreed, saying it took into account the cost of Ms Ss existing credit
commitments and she was up-to-date with her repayments. It had already allowed an
allocation for unplanned costs in its affordability assessment, so she had that, in addition to
the £150.10 of monthly disposable income.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any 
comments or new evidence by 11 April 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision 
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Ms S before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It reduced her declared income after a third 
party income verification check. It increased her declared expenditure to ensure it was
reasonable based on national statistics and added a 10% buffer for unplanned expenses. It
checked Ms Ss credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments
and credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Ms S had enough
disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were initially proportionate given the size and term of the loan and its
repayments, but I think based on the information it gathered Loans 2 Go should have carried
out further checks. Ill explain why.
From its checks Loans 2 Go concluded Ms Ss monthly income was a minimum of £831.31
and her disposable income would be around £150. So both her net and disposable income
were relatively low. It saw from her credit file she was at her limit on a credit card, but her
limit was low at £200. She was also using £262 of her £500 overdraft. The credit check
showed no other borrowing, so her overall debt level was low, and she was up-to-date with
her repayments.
I know Ms S told us she had short-term high-cost loans at the time, but these are not listed
on the credit report. This can happen as not all lenders report to all credit reference agencies
and also there can be timing delays, but I can only fairly expect the lender to react to the
information its credit search returned. So I dont think Loans 2 Go needed to decline her
application at this stage, rather it ought to have carried out further checks to get the
assurances it needed that the loan would be affordable.
As this is my finding I asked Ms S for copies of her bank statements for the three months 
prior to this loan. This would have allowed me to see what Loans 2 Go would most likely 
have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks.
Ms S has not provided this information, so I am currently unable to conclude whether better
checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable, or not. It follows I cant fairly say
Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Ms S.
I havent seen any evidence Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms S in
some other way.
Loans 2 Go accepted my provisional decision, saying it had nothing further to add. 
Ms Ss representative said she did not accept the findings and would provide the missing 
information we had requested within seven days. This was on 25 March 2022; no 
information was subsequently submitted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As Ms S did not to provide any additional information it follows I have no reason to change 
the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. Based on the available 
evidence, for the reasons set out above, I cannot conclude Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to 
Ms S.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman