DRN-3759677
The complaint
Mr N complains about the actions NewDay Ltd (NewDay) took when he asked it to help 
him with a dispute about a purchase he made using credit provided by it. Mr N also 
complains about NewDays complaint handling.
What happened
Mr N purchased two bed sheets from a supplier I will call S. Mr N used his NewDay credit 
card to buy the sheets.
Mr N was dissatisfied with the purchase. In particular, Mr Ns position is that S did not send 
him the sheets he paid it for, rather it sent him different inferior sheets. Mr N complained to S 
and ultimately he returned the sheets to it. But S would not reimburse him for the purchase 
because it said it did not stock the type of sheets Mr N sent to it. Therefore there was no 
possibility that it sent the sheets by mistake. As a result S denied it had ever supplied these 
sheets to him. For all of these reasons, S did not agree that it needed to reimburse Mr N.
Dissatisfied Mr N complained to NewDay. NewDay indicated had two possible options for 
getting Mr N his money back. These options were a process known as chargeback (I will talk 
about what chargeback is below in the what Ive decided and why section) and a claim 
against itself under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
NewDay started the chargeback process. However, S via its bank raised a defence to the 
chargeback. NewDay considered Ss defence to be a strong one according to the rules that 
apply to chargebacks. Therefore, NewDay concluded it was pointless trying to take the 
matter further, as there was no realistic prospect of success. However, Mr Ns position is that 
NewDay could and should have gone further. Moreover the way Mr N sees it NewDay let 
him down by believing the supplier over him.
NewDay was unable to go ahead with a claim against itself under Section 75 because Mr 
Ns claim did not meet the qualifying conditions for such a claim.
NewDay agreed it had mishandled Mr Ns complaint when it came to the information it gave 
him about complaining via email. NewDay credited Mr Ns account with £25 to make up for 
this.
Mr N was not satisfied with NewDays response, so he complained to this service. Mr N laid 
particular emphasis on his position that he thought he had provided NewDay with sufficient 
evidence to support his version of events.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding Mr Ns complaint. Specifically, our investigator acknowledged Mr Ns strength of 
feeling about the information hed provided. However our investigator did not agree with Mr 
Ns position. Rather our investigator concluded that NewDay had not done anything wrong in 
relation to the steps it took to recover Mr Ns money for him. Further, our investigator 
explained that this service does not have the power to look at the part of Mr Ns complaint 
that is simply about complaint handling. 
NewDay appeared to accept our investigators recommendation, Mr N did not. Mr N asked 
that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As Mr N paid for the goods using his credit card and wanted a refund, Ive thought 
about whether NewDAy dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process is 
relevant in this case. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for NewDay to ask for a payment Mr 
N made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods arent supplied or as 
described/misrepresented by the company Mr N paid. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The suppliers bank could put forward a 
defence to any chargeback claim as was the case here.
Moreover, the chargeback process is a voluntary one (customers like Mr N have recourse 
against suppliers via the courts) so NewDay was under no obligation to carry one out. 
That said, it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and 
there is some prosect of success. However, sometimes the circumstances of a dispute mean 
it wont always be appropriate for the financial business to raise a chargeback.  I am 
persuaded this is the case in the complaint here. I say this for several reasons which Ill go 
through below.
S raised a strong defence to Mr Ns complaint, in that it said it did not stock the sheets so 
there was no way it could have mistakenly sent them to him. Mr N may not agree that this a 
strong defence, but I think it was under the chargeback rules. Its not the case that NewDay 
chose to prefer Ss stance. Rather as I have said already under the relevant rules Ss 
defence was strong. I say this even though I realise it is not unheard of for genuine mistakes 
to be made when suppliers unknowingly send the wrong items. It is also not unheard of for 
unscrupulous vendors to knowingly pretend to sell high value items but send something else 
instead, usually a low value item. But NewDay had no information from Mr N that could have 
successfully countered Ss defence. Therefore there was nothing further NewDay could 
reasonably have done.
It follows that I have no proper basis for saying that NewDay acted incorrectly. It also follows 
that I do not uphold this part of Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N also wants to rely on consumer law as far as it gives him rights against NewDay where 
he purchased goods using credit provided by it. In particular, he thinks he has rights 
because his stance is that the goods were misrepresented to him and/or that that S had 
breached its contract with him. But as regards Section 75, this provision does not apply in all circumstances. One of the 
qualifying conditions for such a claim is that the claim relates to any single item to which the 
supplier has attached a cash price of more than £100. Here each single item cost less than 
£100. Although, it is arguable whether the single item here was the total purchase or each 
individual item in the total purchase. But even if I accept that the qualifying conditions were 
met this gets Mr N no further. I say this because Mr N did not have sufficient evidence to 
show that on balance the goods he sent back to S were the goods it originally supplied to 
him. In other words he could not demonstrate that misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
On that basis, I am not persuaded that NewDay acted inappropriately in not reimbursing Mr 
N. So it follows I dont uphold this part of Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N complained about NewDays complaint handling. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I cant 
look at that part of his complaint. Thats because complaint handling isnt an activity listed 
within the rules that govern this service. Complaints about how a complaint has been dealt 
with simply are not something that falls within the remit of this service. I realise this may be 
very galling for Mr N as he laid a lot of emphasis on this issue in his complaint to us. But he 
can take this issue no further with our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman