DRN-2118793
The complaint
Mr Y complains that he was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance, (PPI), 
policy . Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for 
the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr Y took out a store card in April 1997. The PPI policy was sold some five months later. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr Y 
disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive followed this in making my decision in Mr Ys case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr Y thought the PPI was sold by post. But AXA has said it was a telesale. But, in any 
event, this doesnt change my decision. Because of the time that has passed AXA no longer 
has a record of what was said to Mr Y during the sale. So Ive had to make my decision on 
the information that I do have and what we know generally about the way AXA sold these 
types of policies.
Mr Y says that he wasnt aware that he had been sold the policy. But, on balance, I think 
that he knew the policy was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this because Ive 
seen Mr Ys signed store card application form. This has a section in it where he could 
have requested PPI. I can see that this has been left blank. So Mr Y would have been 
aware at that stage that he didnt need the insurance in order to get the card. As PPI was 
added to his account some months after he applied for the card, I find that its reasonable 
to conclude that he agreed to take it at the later date. As Ive said, I don t know what was 
said during the phone call, but as he already had his card I think its reasoanble to assume 
that Mr Y knew he could decline the PPI if he didnt want it. Because of the time that has 
passed, I can understand why Mr Y no longer remembers this.
Because the sale was so long ago, we dont have a copy of the actual policy terms that 
applied to Mr Ys card. So Ive considered the policy terms of the same insurers that were 
in use for other store cards, that we do have, from nearest the time of this sale. I think that 
it is reasonable to assume that similar terms would have been likely to have applied to 
Mr Ys policy.
AXA didnt advise Mr Y to take the policy, so it would have left it up to him to decised 
whether he wanted it. But AXA still had to give Mr Y clear, fair and not-misleading 
information about the PPI so he could make an informed decision as to whether it was 
suitable for his needs. I dont know what information AXA gave Mr Y. But even if the 
information that AXA gave him was not as clear as it ought to have been, I still think Mr Y 
would have taken out the cover. I say this, because looking at what I know about Mr Ys 
circumstances at the time, and the policy terms to which Ive referred above:
Mr Y was likely to have been eligible for the PPI;
Mr Y wasnt likely to have been affected by any of the policys main limitations and 
restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Following a successful claim, the PPI would likely to have paid out 15% of Mr Ys store 
card balance a month had Mr Y not been working because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment,. And the payments would likely to have been made until 
Mr Y returned to work, or until his balance had been settled, whichever occurred first. 
They would also have been paid out in addition to any to any other monies Mr Y had or 
was entitled to.
Mr Y has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. He originally told us 
both: that he was entitled to six months statutory sick pay and that he was entitled to 
between six months, or more, full pay, but less than 12 months full pay. ( I think that it is 
reasonable to assume the reference to statutory was in error.) But later he also told us 
that he was entitled to six months full pay followed by 75% pay a month. However, he 
has been unable to confirm for exactly how long this part payment would have been 
paid. He says that these payments were covered by his employers insurance policy 
and suggested that it might have been for so long as he could provide a doctors 
certificate. Im aware that Mr Ys employer was a household name and that he had 
worked there for some 13 years in a senior capacity. This means that I find its 
reasonable to assume that his sick pay entitlement would have been comparatively 
generous. But Im not satisfied that I have enough evidence to conclude that it was 
more than likely the partial sick pay entitlement would have been for a long enough 
period. So I still think the policy was potentially of use to Mr Y. I say this particularly as 
Mr Y has told us that he didnt have any savings or other insurance to help him make 
his monthly store card repayments; 
Mr Y has told us that he was entitled to a redundancy package. But, as Ive mentioned 
above, the PPI would have paid out in addition to this. Leaving the redundancy monies 
available to help with his other expenditure while he was not working. He has also said 
that he actually got £30,000 when he was made redundant. But this was after the sale 
and he wouldnt have known this at the time he decided to take the policy;
The premiums were likely to have been no more than one pound a month for each £100 
outstanding on his account. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr Y couldnt 
afford this. In any event, had he later felt that he no longer wanted the PPI or that it was 
unaffordable for him, Mr Y could have cancelled it at any time without further cost, as it 
was paid for monthly.
So I find that Mr Y hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done wrong 
during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman