DRN-3738215
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) handled his 
loan application.
What happened
Last year, Mr B applied for a loan with M&S via its website. M&S says the application was 
assessed using its lending criteria and the information available.
M&S says it wanted to check the affordability for the loan and asked Mr B to provide 
information to verify his income details. 
A short time later, Mr B sent M&S a copy of his business bank statement. M&S says it 
showed a significant overdraft facility and didnt show income in line with the details provided 
in the application. M&S requested a copy of Mr Bs self assessment or tax return in order to 
proceed. 
Mr Bs explained that at this time he had to leave the country to deal with the death of a 
close family member. As a result, Mr B didnt have access to the documents M&S required 
so was unable to proceed. Mr Bs told us that he went on to secure a loan with another 
business but ended up paying a higher interest rate as a result. 
Mr B complained to M&S but it didnt agree it had acted unfairly. M&S said it was unable to 
proceed with the loan application without evidence of Mr Bs income. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. They thought M&S had dealt with 
Mr Bs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr B asked to appeal and said M&S 
had failed to treat him fairly as it hadnt considered his vulnerability following the death in his 
family. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances under which Mr Bs raised his 
complaint. Ive been brief above in setting out the background and our decisions are 
anonymised to ensure private information isnt shared. But I want to assure Mr B that Ive 
read and considered all the information he has given us, including the reason he didnt have 
the information available to proceed with the application. 
There are a number of issues in this case. M&S has explained that when it initially assessed 
Mr Bs application it was referred for affordability checks. And M&S asked Mr B to provide 
information to support the application. Mr B supplied a copy of the business bank statement. 
But when the statement was reviewed, M&S says it had further questions. I appreciate Mr B 
was under the impression his application would be approved when he sent M&S the bank 
statement. But lenders are obliged to ensure they lend responsibly and can request further 
evidence in support of an application. Here, M&S said the bank statement showed a 
reasonably high overdrawn balance and didnt show income in line with the figure given in 
the application. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for M&S to ask 
Mr B for additional information once it reviewed the bank statement provided. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied M&S had a legitimate reason to ask for more 
information before proceeding. As that information wasnt supplied and Mr B confirmed he 
didnt want to proceed when raising a complaint, Im unable to say M&S acted unfairly or 
made a mistake with its approach to Mr Bs application. 
In response to the investigator, Mr B said M&S had failed to take into account how 
vulnerable he was and didnt follow industry guidelines known as TEXAS. The guidelines say 
businesses should take certain steps, including checking whether a customer consents to 
having sensitive information recorded, when dealing with a vulnerable customer. As Ive 
said, I understand Mr B was making the application at a particularly difficult time. So I 
understand why he feels M&S shouldve extended more support to him. But, Ive listened to 
Mr Bs call during which M&S agent requested evidence of his income. During the call, 
Mr Bs primary objection was that he had been misled by M&S requests for information. 
Towards the end of the call, Mr B said he didnt have the documents available and was due 
to travel for a funeral. But Mr B didnt mention further needs he had or explain he was 
vulnerable at the time due to losing a close family member. So whilst I am in no way trying to 
detract from the distressing situation Mr B was in, those circumstances werent given to M&S 
when he called. Mr B did tell the agent he was going to a funeral, but Im not persuaded that 
in itself wouldve been grounds for M&S to adopt the TEXAS approach. 
Mr Bs also told us M&S misspelled his name when it wrote to him about his complaint. I 
agree that was a mistake. But complaint handling in its own right isnt a regulated activity 
and doesnt fall within the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So whilst I 
understand why Mr Bs upset M&S got his name wrong, Im unable to make an award solely 
on that basis. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B as I understand my decision may feel harsh. But as the 
information required by M&S to proceed with his application wasnt supplied and he 
ultimately made other arrangements, Im unable to say it made a mistake with his 
application. I havent found grounds to tell M&S to remove the search entry from Mr Bs 
credit file or compensate him for the higher rate of interest he ultimately took. As Im satisfied 
M&S dealt with Mr Bs application fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman