DRN-4163080
The complaint
Mrs J says NewDay Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her credit 
card which paid for a package holiday.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs J used her NewDay credit card to pay for a package holiday for her 
family which was due to take place in December 2021. Mrs J says she chose the package 
holiday company, which Ill call Firm T, because it advertised that it was providing Covid 
insurance as part of the sale of the holiday, so that Mrs J felt that if she couldnt go because 
of Covid shed get her money back. Mrs J says that just before her flights were due to fly, 
she and her family all got Covid. So she sent proof of her Covid status to Firm T, but she 
says it didnt refund her. So she complained to NewDay.
NewDay considered Mrs Js dispute with Firm T and raised a Chargeback. Firm T responded 
by saying it didnt provide the insurance, but another company, which Ill call Firm C, did. 
And Firm T added it could see that Mrs J had made a claim on the insurance in place with 
Firm C. So it didnt think it needed to do anymore as Firm C was dealing with it. Mrs J, 
unhappy with this, brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator issued 
assessments saying NewDay had nothing more to do. Mrs J thinks this is unfair, so this 
complaint came to me to decide.
In April I issued my provisional decision. Both parties have had opportunity to respond to it, 
and the timeframe for such responses has now ended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision NewDay said it didnt have anything further to add. 
This service has received no response from Mrs J within the time span set out in my 
provisional decision. More than a week has passed since that deadline passed and so Im 
satisfied that it is now safe to go ahead and issue this final decision.
As neither party has provided evidence or reasoning to change my position I see no 
persuasive reason to divert from the position set out in my provisional decision. Accordingly 
Mrs Js complaint is unsuccessful for the following reasons (as described in my provisional 
decision issued previously).
Mrs J used her NewDay credit card to pay Firm T for the package. This means NewDay has 
certain responsibilities to Mrs J (if certain criteria are met) which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). NewDay is also a 
member of a card network which provides card services. And this network has rules which 
includes giving NewDay an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants 
(such as Firm T), namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add that this decision is solely about NewDay and whether it did what it should 
have when considering Mrs Js dispute with Firm T, and whether it treated Mrs J fairly. This 
decision isnt about Firm T or Firm C, neither of which are within this services remit for 
complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this key distinction is clear.
could NewDay challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs J 
does here, NewDay (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. 
This isnt a right for consumers and firms arent obliged to raise a chargeback. However this 
service does think its good practice for firms to raise a chargeback when it feels a 
chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success.
Mrs J doesnt dispute that she used her NewDay credit card here. Nor does she dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the financial transaction itself. So I dont think 
NewDay couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs J didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given what Ive just set out.
NewDay considered the matter and credited Mrs J whilst it did so. It then considered the 
matter and having done so re-debited Mrs Js account when it decided to not take the 
Chargeback any further.
NewDay says that it chose to no longer pursue the chargeback, because Firm T told it that 
Mrs J had confirmed that shed raised a claim with Firm C regarding the insurance shed 
bought when buying the package. I can see within the insurance advertising supplied, the 
presence and role of Firm C is described and that it is clear it is an insurance policy. So it is 
clear from the advert that Firm T isnt responsible for the insurance provision and implicitly 
neither is it responsible the consideration of claims regarding the insurance. 
Ive considered the chargeback reason codes available in this situation considering the 
position of the parties. Im not persuaded that under this chargeback scheme there are any 
such codes which apply here and would have been successful if this matter had been 
proceeded with under those codes to the final stage of the process. So I dont think Mrs J 
lost out due to what NewDay did. I think the chargeback would have been unsuccessful in 
any event.
Section 75
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Debtors such as Mrs J can bring a like 
claim against Creditors (such as NewDay here) for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by Suppliers as long as certain criteria are met. 
Im satisfied the financial limits criteria here is met in this case considering the amount paid. 
The next test I have to consider is whether the appropriate Debtor-Creditor-Supplier 
agreement is in place which makes NewDay potentially liable. 
It is clear to me from what Mrs J has said throughout this matter that her complaint is in 
essence in two parts 1) that she says she only bought the package holiday because of the 
insurance and 2) that shes unhappy that the insurance company Firm C hasnt paid out on 
her claim to it.
S75 of the CCA says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
And Section 12 (b) says:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier,
And Section 11 (1) (b) says:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other than the 
creditor,
So, although there are some important exceptions, in essence there needs to be a three-
party arrangement in place for Mrs J to hold NewDay responsible for what Firm T did. So it 
follows that for the complaint regarding the advertising Firm T issued in relation to the 
package there are three parties-the Debtor (Mrs J), the Creditor (NewDay) and the Supplier 
(Firm T). So in regard to that element of the complaint I am satisfied that the DCS agreement 
is in place. So I can consider whether NewDay correctly considered Mrs Js S75 claim to it.
However in relation to Mrs Js complaint about the insurer Firm C not paying her claim I 
cannot hold NewDay responsible for that. That is because the issue complained about is 
Firm C not paying out on the claim, but Mrs J paid Firm T. And Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence of any pre-existing arrangement being in place between NewDay and Firm C prior 
to this transaction. And thus there are four parties here-Debtor (Mrs J), the Creditor 
(NewDay) and the recipient of the funds (Firm T) and the Insurance provider (Firm C). So Im 
not persuaded that NewDay can be held responsible for Firm C not paying out on Mrs Js 
insurance claim. So if Mrs J wishes to complain about Firm C she needs to complain to it 
first and then this service could consider whether it can look at the matter.
Did Firm T breach or misrepresent the agreement?
Clearly Firm T arranged the package holiday for Mrs J and assisted Firm C in the 
arrangement of the insurance. So Im satisfied that Firm T didnt breach the contract or not 
honour the agreement made as it did what it said it would. 
Mrs J says she only bought the holiday because of the insurance. And considering when Mrs 
J bought it (in the midst of Covid) I can see why shed want some cover in place for such an 
eventuality. But it is clear Firm T did pass on the details of the required insurance to Firm C. 
It is also clear from the terms and conditions that Mrs J agreed when making the booking 
that The suppliers whose services make up your arrangements make those supplies in 
accordance with their own terms and conditions.
Ive considered the Package Travel Regulations (the PTRs) and Im not persuaded 
Insurance such as there is here is covered by the PTRs as it isnt defined as being so in the 
four types of Travel Services as defined in the PTRs. So I dont think Firm T can be held 
liable for what Firm C did or didnt do.
Ive also considered the advertising related to this insurance. There is no mention in that 
advertising that says payment on claims is guaranteed. Nor is there anything I can see which 
is in the advert which has shown to be untrue. It is clear that the Insurance was arranged 
and hence there would have been cover in place. The fact that Firm C hasnt so far paid out 
on the claim (or rejected the claim for an exclusion or other reason) doesnt mean the cover 
wasnt arranged or in place.For Firm T to be held liable, and thus NewDay as well then it would need to be shown 
something in that advert wasnt true and Mrs J relied upon it to her loss. But it seems clear 
that the insurance was provided, and Im not persuaded there was anything untrue which 
has led to loss here.
Summary
So all in all having considered the matter carefully Im not persuaded NewDay needs to do 
any more here. I think its approach to Chargeback was fair and although I think its approach 
to Section 75 isnt in line with how I see the matter, I dont think Mrs J lost out because of 
this. Im satisfied the required relationship isnt in place (DCS) for the insurance claim and 
Im not persuaded that the advertising was untrue bearing in mind Mrs Js agreement to be 
bound by Firm Cs terms and conditions. So it is my decision that this complaint shouldnt 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay limited.  It has 
nothing further to do on this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman