DRN-3214830
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Silver and 
Platinum packaged bank accounts in March 2011 and February 2012 respectively.
Mrs C says that she was invited into a Lloyds branch where the sole purpose of the meeting 
was to sell her something. Mrs C says she felt intimidated into agreeing to the accounts, and 
that the accounts were expensive and something she had not asked for.
What happened
Lloyds said that our service is unable to consider Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of the 
Platinum account. One of our ombudsmen has looked into what Lloyds had said, and he 
agreed that our service could not consider Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of the Platinum 
account. So our service is only able to consider Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of the 
Silver account.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint about the Silver account, and he didnt think 
that the Silver account had been mis-sold.
Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that that the Silver account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on everything that is available. 
Ive started off by considering whether Mrs C was given a fair choice in agreeing to the 
account upgrade. And Mrs C has said she felt that, when she was invited into the Lloyds 
branch, the member of staff was intent on selling her something and she says that the 
product was mis-sold because she did not ask for it. However, although Mrs C may not have 
gone to the bank with the intention of taking out a packaged account, that in itself does not 
mean that it was unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds to have sold her such a product.
Mrs C also says she felt intimidated into agreeing to have the account. However, I can see 
that up until March 2011, Mrs C had held a fee-free account for many years with Lloyds. So I 
think she was aware they were generally available and that she couldve continued to have 
one if she wanted to. 
Furthermore, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to say that Lloyds had put Mrs C 
under pressure to agree to the account. For example, if it was the case that the only reason 
why Mrs C agreed to the Silver account was because she felt she could not say no to the 
member of staff during the meeting, she could have cancelled it a short while later. But 
instead of doing this, Mrs C kept her account as a packaged account for many years. 
In addition to the above, Lloyds has provided evidence that Mrs C registered a mobile phone 
on the cover provided by the Silver account, around a month after she agreed to it. In a letter 
sent to Lloyds, Mrs C said that she didnt have a Samsung mobile phone. However, in our 
questionnaire, Mrs C said that she thinks she did previously have a Samsung phone. 
Therefore, I think it is likely that the phone that Lloyds says was registered in April 2011 with 
its mobile phone insurer provided through Mrs Cs account was most likely to have been Mrs 
Cs.
Lloyds records also show that Mrs C credited £15,000 into her account shortly before the 
upgrade of her account to the Silver package. And the notes that Lloyds has provided from 
the time say that an Advantage Saver account was opened at the same time as the Silver 
account. One of the benefits of the Silver account was that it included a bonus rate of 
interest on the first 12 months of opening an Advantage Saver account. So, based on the 
evidence that I have seen, I think its more likely that Mrs C agreed to the account because 
of the benefits that she could potentially make use of, rather than because she felt as though 
she could not say no to the upgrade.
Therefore, when taking everything into account, I think that Mrs C was in all likelihood given 
a fair choice when the Silver account was sold to her.
Lloyds says that the account was sold on an advised basis. This means that it had to make 
sure the account was a good fit for Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. And as outlined 
above, its clear that Mrs C had a mobile phone and went on to register a handset  so she 
clearly was able to make use of the mobile phone insurance that came with the account. And 
she wouldve been able to obtain a better interest rate on the lump sum of money she 
deposited to the account at the time, as a result of having the Silver account. Therefore, I 
think that recommending Mrs C upgrade to the Silver account was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
Finally, as well as making sure that the account was a reasonable fit for Mrs Cs 
circumstances, Lloyds also had to make sure it gave Mrs C important information about the 
account, so that she was able to make an informed decision. 
Looking through what Mrs C has told us, Ive not seen anything to suggest that she was not 
told about the account features, cost and exclusions. And as she registered a phone a short 
while after agreeing to the account, its clear that at the very least, Mrs C was given 
information about the need to do so and also how to go about registering a phone too.
I accept its possible that Mrs C might not have been given all of the important information 
about the account when it was sold to her. But Ive not seen anything about her 
circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she 
been given even more information about it.
I understand that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs C may now feel that the Silver account 
was poor value for money and she may now regret agreeing to it. But that in itself does not 
mean that the account was mis-sold. 
Therefore, having taken all of the evidence into account, overall I dont think that the Silver 
account was mis-sold.
Finally, I understand that Mrs C is unhappy because, when she went to claim on the travel 
insurance provided by her account, her claim was declined. However, if Mrs C is unhappy 
with how her travel insurance claim was handled, she will need to raise her concerns directly 
with the travel insurer, rather than Lloyds.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman