DRN-2255714
The complaint
 Miss S says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI).  
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policies which started in 1988 and 1990 and which covered 
mortgages. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint about the 1988 PPI be upheld. Bradford & 
Bingley disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Bradford & Bingley has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Miss Ss 
complaint about the 1988 policy. This is because I think its likely Bradford & Bingley didnt 
make clear the PPI was optional. Miss S has said she cant remember about the PPI being 
discussed and that she just assumed it was necessary. And I can see that the PPI 
application form box has neither yes nor no written in it, on the mortgage form that Miss S 
signed. So, on balance, I dont think Bradford & Bingley got Miss Ss explicit consent to 
taking the PPI, and that it was added to her account without her agreement. 
Bradford & Bingley says that this was an oversight at the time, and Miss S would have 
received confirmation the PPI had been taken out. I accept this is a possibility, but on the 
balance of probabilities I still think this was mis-sold at the point she applied for PPI (even if 
she did later receive confirmation of the policy).
The application form, for the 1990 loan and PPI, was filled in with a yes. So I think, by that 
time, Miss S had decided she would take PPI  I dont have strong evidence to show that 
this wasnt the case. I cant be sure how much information she was given about the costs 
and benefits, including restrictions, but I think shed still have found the PPI potentially useful 
even with full information. I say this because she was eligible to make a claim, and not being 
able to pay your mortgage can cause significant difficulties. And the PPI would have paid at 
the same time as any sick pay, and on top of any redundancy pay, and so would have kept 
Miss S secure financially for longer. And it doesnt look as though the significant restrictions 
(exclusions) in the policy would have applied to her.
 
Putting things right
Bradford & Bingley should put Miss S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
the 1988 PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Bradford & Bingley should:
Pay Miss S the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Bradford & Bingley must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
I require Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay Miss S compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman