DRN-3835151
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc havent done enough to help him when his 
circumstances changed and he could no longer afford his credit card. 
What happened
Mr K first wrote to Capital One about his change of circumstances in May 2022. He asked 
Capital One to accept a payment of £10 per month towards what he owed on his credit card 
 around £1,500. 
Capital One havent accepted this. Instead, theyve reported late payments to credit 
reference agencies, and issued default warnings to Mr K. Theyve also stopped interest 
being added to the debt, and suspended fees. 
Mr K complained, but Capital One didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. The complaint 
came to us, but our investigator felt Capital One had handled the matter fairly. 
Mr K didnt agree with that view, so hes asked for an ombudsman to consider the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mr K is in a difficult and stressful position with his credit card, I find 
Capital One have done what could be expected in the circumstances. 
Capital One do have responsibilities as a credit provider. Where a customer explains theyre 
in financial difficulties, wed expect a lender to treat them positively and sympathetically. But 
that doesnt mean they have to accept every suggestion a customer has for handling a debt. 
Here, I can understand why Capital One feel unable to accept Mr Ks suggested payment 
plan. At £10 per month, it would take him about 13 years to pay back what he owes. 
Payment plans usually run for much shorter periods than this. 
With that offer being unacceptable to Capital One, and Mr Ks circumstances being as 
immoveable as hes described, a default of the credit agreement looks a real possibility. 
The option to default is available to Capital One in circumstances where arrears have built 
up significantly. Thats the case here. It needs to be issued with suitable warning. But Ive 
seen Capital Ones default notice letters to Mr K, which seem to do that. 
A default will have an effect on Mr Ks credit record. But ultimately, the record should be a 
clear and true reflection of Mr Ks ability to manage credit. It feels fair to me that it should 
include some reference to Mr Ks inability to make the minimum payments towards this credit 
agreement since April 2022. 
I appreciate other lenders have chosen to act differently to Capital One with debts Mr K 
owes. But that doesnt set the standard that Capital One need to meet. 
In all, I find Capital One have met a reasonable standard here. Theyve been clear with Mr K 
about what he owes, when it should have been paid, and what will happen next if payments 
continue to be missed. Theyve explained to him  in clear terms  why they wont accept his 
offer for reduced payments. And theyve explained what they are willing to do to try to help. I 
find Capital One dont need to do anything more here to resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman