DRN-3403687
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) marked her credit file.
What happened
Mrs B had a personal loan with M&S. It was taken out in October 2018, repayable over 60 
months  monthly payments were £322.81. In March 2020, the outstanding balance was
£13,880.83. It was paid to date. Mrs Bs husbands work stopped because of COVID-19 
and on 27 March 2020, she called M&S to ask for help with the payments to her personal 
loan. A 60 day breathing space was agreed  with no payments in April 2020 and May 
2020. Her credit file was marked with missed payments for those months.
On 6 May 2020, Mrs B called M&S as shed had a notice of arrears and was concerned. 
M&S went through an income & expenditure form and agreed a six-month long term no 
affordability (LTNA) hold. Payments to the personal loan were suspended for that 
period and Mrs Bs credit file was marked with missed payments.
On 8 July 2020, a Default Notice was sent to Mrs B  saying the arrears were £1,291.24, to 
be paid by 29 July 2020. On 24 July 2020, Mrs B called M&S about it. She paid off the 
arrears.
Mrs B complained. She thought she was getting a payment holiday. She said she hadnt 
been advised there would be any markers on her credit file. And on 6 May 2020  she said 
she was told she could pay off the missed payments to the loan over a period and not go 
into default. This was now affecting her ability to get credit and would continue to do so in 
the future.
M&S said that payment holidays werent bought in until 16 April 2020  so they couldnt 
have offered that to Mrs B when she called on 27 March 2020. So, theyd put in place a 60- 
day breathing space  whereby she could miss two payments to her personal loan, but her 
credit file would be marked. But they said the call handler made an error  as he said that 
the markers would be removed later. They agreed to remove the late payment markers 
from Mrs Bs credit file for April 2020 and May 2020, and paid compensation of £100. M&S 
said that when Mrs B called them on 6 May 2020, they agreed a LTNA hold on her loan 
because she didnt have sufficient monthly income and didnt qualify for a payment holiday. 
They said theyd advised Mrs B that late payments would show on her credit file. And that 
they may eventually record the account as being in default. But they said the marker for 
June 2020 must stay, as no error had been made in the call on 6 May 2020.
Mrs B didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator considered M&S acted 
fairly. She said the option of the 60-day breathing space on 27 March 2020 was the right 
one  as the payment holiday scheme hadnt then been introduced. And M&S had admitted 
their error when Mrs B was told the markers on her credit file would be later removed. On 
the call on 6 May 2020, he thought M&S gave Mrs B the right solution for her 
circumstances - as they felt that Mrs Bs financial situation wouldnt improve in the short 
term, and a longer-term solution was needed. And this led to Mrs Bs credit file being 
marked, which was fair.
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
M&S, agreed to put in place payment deferrals on many credit agreements, including 
personal loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of 
two payment deferrals, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. 
Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest 
would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of 
October 2020, after which it changed  but I wont go into those changes as they arent 
relevant for this complaint.
The FCA called the arrangements payment deferrals  but as both M&S and Mrs B call 
them payment holidays, for clarity I will do the same.
Ive listened to all the calls in question. The issues on which I must decide on are:
Should M&S have given Mrs B a payment holiday  rather than a breathing space 
or long term no affordability (LTNA) hold?
What was Mrs B told about how to clear the arrears on her loan?
Were M&S sufficiently clear about her options and the effect on Mrs Bs credit file?
Call  27 March 2020:
Mrs B asked for a pause on her payments to the personal loan. This was agreed by the 
call handler  for 60 days, with no payments to be made in April 2020 or May 2020. He 
said there would be an effect on Mrs Bs credit file  but the markers would be removed  
as it wasnt your fault and M&S were aware of another support scheme coming through 
(which I assume was the FCAs payment holiday scheme). M&S later apologised for their 
error  they shouldnt have said the markers would be removed, and paid compensation of 
£100. That was fair and reasonable. M&S advised Mrs B to cancel the direct debit to the 
loan  which she later did.
The draft guidance for the FCA payment holiday scheme was published on 2 April 2020 
and it was announced on 9 April 2020  with the date of introduction being 14 April 2020. 
M& S showed us their procedures and they introduced the scheme on 16 April 2020. But 
firms were aware that the scheme was about to be introduced  and M&S call handler 
indicated that as well. In those circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for M&S 
to contact Mrs B after 16 April 2020  to offer support under the payment holiday scheme. If 
that had been done  she couldve had a three-month payment holiday  for April 2020, 
May 2020, and June 2020 - with no effect on her credit file. This wouldve then have 
enabled her to ask for a further three months payment holiday for July 2020, August 2020, 
and September 2020  and wouldve avoided the problems she had later. Its fair to note 
that on the call on 27 March 2020  the call handler didnt go through an income and 
expenditure process or ask Mrs B about her circumstances. And that wouldve had to have 
been completed to agree a payment holiday. But based on what she later told them in May 
2020, I think its fair to assume she wouldve qualified when she called in March 2020.
Call - 6 May 2020:This is the important call. Mrs B had received a notice of arrears and was concerned. The 
call handler said letters would be sent but said dont worry about that. Mrs B said phew. 
Mrs B explained her husband was self-employed and had orders for his work  but couldnt 
complete these because of the pandemic, as he needed access to customers houses to 
do that. She said once he returned to work things would be OK. Also, she said that they 
were hopeful that the governments support for self-employed persons would come through 
in June 2020  whereby they would get some income paid.
They completed the income and expenditure process. Mrs B said that the mortgage (£270 
per month) was on a payment holiday and there was a small credit card debt  but no 
other creditors. Priority payments were all up to date. Mrs B was still working and earnt 
£1,600 per month. I listened to the list of monthly outgoings which totalled about £810, 
plus food of £400. This excluded the mortgage (on a payment holiday). M&S then said that 
(when including the loan payment of £322)  this showed a deficit. But for me, it totalled 
£1,532 (excluding the mortgage) against income of £1,600. M&S then offered a LTNA 
hold on payments for six months. This meant that Mrs Bs credit file would be marked with 
the missed payments.
Ive looked at M&S internal guidance for LTNA. This says it can be used where theres no 
prospect of changes to customers circumstances within 90 days. And affordability should 
be less than £1  i.e. outgoings are greater than income. But  I think it wouldve been 
reasonable to conclude that while Mrs Bs income was fully committed  there wasnt a 
deficit. And  Mrs B had said her husband would go back to work as soon as the 
restrictions allowed. And he had orders to fulfil. She was also hopeful that the government 
support scheme for the self-employed would be announced. And so  it was reasonable to 
think that things would improve for her within a period of three months. I noted also that all 
priority payments were up to date (including the personal loan up to March 2020), the 
mortgage was on a payment holiday, there was only one other creditor  a credit card  
and Mrs B was working. And so  under those circumstances, it would have been 
reasonable to offer Mrs B a payment holiday, not the LTNA option.
M&S then gave some fairly confused messages about the effect of the arrangement on Mrs 
Bs credit file. They said this will show on your credit file for six years but went on to say 
in certain cases it will show on your credit fileyou will get a default letter but dont 
panicyoure not there yetwe will send you letters before that happens I think what 
happened here was that M&S confused the communications between the late payments and 
a possible default showing on Mrs Bs credit file. Mrs B was confused and asked, when will 
it show on my credit file? and M&S replied now, but not yet a default which is more serious 
and will last for six years. I think that on balance, Mrs B was left with the impression that 
either nothing would be added to her credit file, or if it were, then she would be advised in 
advance. There wasnt any reference on the call made about interest and charges  but 
within M&S LTNA scheme, interest wasnt to be charged.
I looked at M&Ss processes and what they say about communications. They say that 
certain statements should be read out in full. These include clear references to arrears, 
reporting to credit reference agencies, charges and interest being suspended, and that a 
default letter may be sent  impacting the credit file and ability to get credit for six years. I 
didnt hear these statements made clearly on the call.
The processes also say that a letter would be sent to confirm the LTNA arrangement. I 
couldnt see that a letter was sent to Mrs B, or an email. If there had been, then Mrs B 
couldve seen what had been put in place and raised any concerns.
Turning to what was said about the arrears on the loan. Mrs B asked how she would 
make up the missed payments on the loan. The call handler said its up to youyou 
could spread the arrears (if you wish); and went onto say that a default letter may be sent but Mrs B was not to worry as we will send you letters before that happens. And 
so, I agree that M&S shouldve been clearer about what was to take place with the default 
letter, what it would say, and its consequences. They didnt say that Mrs B would be 
required to pay off the arrears at that time and in full to avoid the default. They advised 
Mrs B that this wouldnt be needed - and she could make up the arrears over a period of 
time.
Calls  24 July 2020:
There were two calls. Mrs B had received a default notice dated 8 July 2020 showing 
arrears of £1,291.24  to be paid by 29 July 2020. She said shed been told on the first two 
calls that there would not be an effect on her credit file, and that if there was, she would be 
advised of it in advance. She completed an income and expenditure form  which showed 
a monthly surplus of £1,895, and in addition her husband would be starting work again 
soon. Mrs B said she was very keen to avoid any impact on her credit file and said she 
would borrow money from friends and family to pay off the arrears  which she did on the 
second call. I wont go into the call in any further detail  as they arent relevant to this 
complaint.
So  in summary. On 27 March 2020, I think it wouldve been reasonable for M&S to back- 
date a three months payment holiday to cover the period from April 2020 to June 2020. 
This wouldve had no impact on her credit file. An assessment wouldve been needed  but 
this would presumably have been the same as that in May 2020 and would have supported 
a payment holiday. Mrs B could then have been given a further three months payment 
holiday to cover July 2020 to August 2020. This wouldve had no impact on her credit file 
either.
Therefore  M&S should remove any late payment markers during the period between 
April 2020 and August 2020. M&S have said only one marker was applied  in June 2020. 
Ive considered whether an additional payment of compensation is reasonable. Mrs B 
would have benefitted from the fact that she shouldve paid no interest on the loan 
between May 2020 and July 2020  I worked out this wouldve saved her about £200. So  
for that reason, I dont think it would be fair to ask M&S to pay any more. In responding to 
this provisional decision, M&S should confirm that no interest was charged for the period.
I emphasise that this is a provisional decision and I invite comments from either Mrs B or 
M&S. In particular, if M&S were to show us that they sent emails or letters to Mrs B to 
detail the LTNA agreement and the effects on her credit file, then these would be 
reviewed.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs B agreed with my findings, but M&S didnt. They said:
M&S couldnt be expected to contact customers about the payment holiday scheme 
as they had large volumes of customers and had many staff working from home. It 
was three weeks after Mrs Bs call to M&S that the FCAs scheme was launched.
The possible government support for self-employed persons hadnt been agreed  
and this was therefore hypothetical. They couldnt therefore have considered this to 
be a certain source of income.
M&S couldnt provide a copy of the LTNA agreement.
I now need to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points that M&S have made - but they dont change the views within the 
provisional decision. 
I accept that M&S couldnt be expected to contact all customers personally about the FCAs 
payment holiday scheme. But  for example, they couldve sent letters/texts to customers 
who had put in place 60 day holds in the short period before it was launched including Mrs 
B. 
I accept that  the self-employed support scheme wasnt a certainty at the time of Mrs Bs call 
in May 2020. But that wasnt the only factor involved here  as Mrs Bs income was 
continuing. And the income and expenditure figures showed she could just about manage on 
that  as their mortgage lender had agreed a payment holiday. 
And -  I must make a decision based on the balance of the various aspects involved in Mrs 
Bs complaint. And as the provisional decision said  the communications in the important 
call in May 2020 were confusing. And I note that M&S havent been able to produce any 
correspondence which set out the terms of the agreements they put in place, particularly the 
LTNA agreement  so I cannot see if Mrs B was advised of its terms.
And so, on balance, I am not changing my provisional decision.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must:
Remove late payment markers from Mrs Bs credit file for the months between April
2020 and August 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman