DRN-4018080
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs I complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has unfairly applied an 
early repayment charge (ERC) to their mortgage. They say their fixed interest rate period 
should have ended sooner and that the ERC itself is excessive.
What happened
 Mr E and Mrs I had a repayment mortgage with Halifax  this began on 19 December 2019. 
The mortgage was based on the mortgage offer dated 25 November 2019 which included an 
initial fixed interest rate period until 31 March 2022 and an ERC in the event of repayment 
before this date.
On 1 March 2019, Mr E and Mrs I redeemed their mortgage as they had agreed to re-
mortgage with another lender. They say this mortgage offer was only valid until 4 March 
2019 and they wanted to proceed as the interest rate was favourable than what would have 
been available on the market at the time.
Halifax applied an ERC of 1% of the amount repaid early  £5,188.70  and included this in 
the redemption statement it sent to Mr E and Mrs Is solicitors. 
Mr E and Mrs I complained that:
They had a two-year fixed rate mortgage which began in December 2019, so they 
think their fixed interest rate period should have ended in December 2021. 
They redeemed their mortgage around a month before the 31 March 2022 and so 
they think its unfair for Halifax to apply the full 1% ERC in the circumstances.
The amount theyve been charged is excessive, theyre willing to pay the interest that 
would have been due in March 2022 but not the full 1% thats been applied.
Halifax said that the ERC had been set out in the mortgage offer and other relevant 
documentation provided to Mr E and Mrs I. It said it was their brokers responsibility to 
ensure they understood the terms of the mortgage and that it had applied the ERC correctly.
When Mr E and Mrs I brought the complaint to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary they said that the ERC had been applied fairly and in line with the 
mortgage terms. They said that Halifax had shown our service that the amount charged was 
a reasonable pre-estimate of costs.
Mr E and Mrs I didnt agree, they said the ERC was disproportionate and harsh. Halifax 
hasnt added any further information.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
The relevant mortgage offer dated 25 November 2019 sets out the key information 
about the mortgage Mr E and Mrs I completed on with Halifax. This says in the main 
features section that their fixed interest rate period ends on 31 March 2022. 
The mortgage offer also says under the early repayment charges section that there 
is an applicable ERC if the mortgage is re-paid early and how this applies. It says 
that the ERC will be 1% of the amount repaid on or before 31 March 2022. 
Information about the ERC is also included in other documentation, such as Mr E and 
Mrs Is annual mortgage statement. So, I think this was set out clearly in the 
documentation and does apply to Mr E and Mrs Is mortgage.
Whilst this was a two-year fixed interest rate product, the end date of the fixed 
interest rate period isnt necessarily going to be exactly two years from the date of 
completion. It would have been for the broker Mr E and Mrs I used to ensure they 
understood the mortgage terms, but as Ive said the documentation does specify the 
date that the ERC will apply until.
The relevant rules of mortgage regulation require that an ERC is a reasonable 
pre-estimation of costs. These costs can be calculated across a tranche of 
mortgages rather than individually. This means that they might be different from the 
actual costs incurred by Halifax when Mr E and Mrs I repaid their mortgage early.
Mr E and Mrs I have focused on the interest Halifax have lost out on for the month of 
March 2022. But Halifaxs methodology for calculating their costs is more complex 
than this. It includes other elements such as calculating the overheads Halifax would 
usually expect to recover during a fixed rate period, and the risks incurred in raising 
the funds and committing to the fixed interest rate. 
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence where appropriate. Halifax has 
shared its calculations with our service, but Im satisfied that it wouldnt be 
appropriate to share this detail more fully than I have as Halifaxs costs and 
calculations are commercially sensitive. Having reviewed them, I think Halifax has 
shown it calculated the ERC it charged Mr E and Mrs I fairly.
For these reasons I think Halifax has applied the ERC fairly and so I dont think it needs to 
do anything further in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman