DRN-3843474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly 
dealt with their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S booked a trip in early September 2021 which was due to depart in December 
2021. They had annual multi trip travel insurance underwritten by Great Lakes with a 
cancellation limit of £500 per person. 
Mr S saw his GP a couple of weeks after booking the holiday and was referred for an 
investigation. Following this and further appointments, Mr S was advised by his GP not to 
travel and so he cancelled the trip in November 2021 and made a claim for just over £3,000. 
Great Lakes reviewed the claim and paid a settlement figure based on the cancellation 
charge Mr and Mrs S would have incurred had they cancelled the trip when Mr S was first 
referred for investigation in September 2021 amounting to £120 less the excess (loss of 
deposit only). As Mr S cancelled in November, he didnt receive any refund from his travel 
provider based on the date of cancellation.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Great Lakes but it maintained its decision so they referred their 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly settled 
the claim as it had followed its terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and said they didnt understand why their full claim amount wasnt 
covered. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules and regulations say an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms set out when a claim will be covered. 
The general conditions confirm the following:
3. It is your responsibility to ensure you have told us about any change in your 
health, or medical status before you depart on each trip and throughout the period of 
cover. Any change must be accepted in writing by us before cover will be continued. 
If you are in doubt as to whether a change is important, you should contact Staysure 
Customer Services.
The medical declaration says:
This acceptance is based on the information you have supplied and is on the 
understanding that you have made a full medical disclosure in accordance with the 
policy wording. 
If there are any changes in your health or prescribed medication prior to 
commencement of the period of insurance, before departing on any trip and 
throughout the life of your policy we must be notified immediately in order for us to 
confirm the continuance of cover
The health declaration on page 3 of the policy says:
We are unable to provide any cover for any pre-existing medical condition(s) 
where you have an undiagnosed medical condition, or a condition where you are 
currently on a waiting list, undergoing treatment, or tests or, where you are awaiting 
the results of any tests
Page 4 under the heading: changes to your health after purchasing your policy says:
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the 
following happensyou are now awaiting a diagnosis, investigation, test results or 
medical treatment then you must contact Staysure Customer Services. A member of 
the team will ask you specific questions about your medical condition(s)If you have 
activated your cover and booked your trip before the change in health occurs and we 
are unable to continue to provide cover, or if you do not wish to pay the additional 
premium you will be entitled to make a claim under Section 1 (Cancellation)
Great Lakes said:
As you were first referred in September 2021, the claim has been limited to the 
deposit cancellation charge which would have applied on this date, rather than the 
charge which applied when you cancelled the holiday in November 2021. If you had 
cancelled the trip when you were first referred for the investigation, you should have 
incurred a cancellation charge of £120 for the deposit paid for this holiday, this is why 
we can only consider this amount.
Mr S has provided a letter from his GP which says he was examined on 8 September 2021 
at the dermatology clinic and an urgent biopsy was recommended. Mr S was advised not to 
travel abroad during the post-operative period. The GP said if the trip was booked before the 
8 September 2021, then the claim should be covered.
Great Lakes has said that if Mr S had called when he was first referred for investigations, 
there would be no cancellation or curtailment cover. But Mr S didnt call when he was 
referred for investigation and so it has settled the claim in line with what Mr S would have 
paid had he cancelled the trip in September 2021. 
Having considered all of the above information, I dont think Great Lakes has unfairly settled 
the claim. The policy has a cancellation limit of £500 per person so Mr and Mrs S would 
never have got their full costs back in any event. Great Lakes settled the claim in line with 
what would have happened had Mr S called it in September 2021 as he was required to do. I 
think this is fair. And so I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S but I hope my decision explains why 
the claim wasnt settled unfairly or incorrectly by Great Lakes.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman