DRN-3504060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
refused to pay their claim under their pet policy for their dog. RSA said it was a pre-existing 
condition and therefore not covered by the policy.
What happened
Having previously insured their dog before, Mr and Mrs H bought their policy underwritten by 
RSA for it to start on 8 August 2020. They made a claim for the vet costs of allergy testing on 
15 November 2021 in the amount of £1,677.20. 
On assessing the claim including the vet history, RSA said this was a pre-existing condition. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed but RSA wouldnt change its stance, So Mr and Mrs H brought their 
complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that RSA hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
When the claim form was prepared by Mr and Mrs Hs vet, the vet was clearly of the view 
that clinical signs of the condition complained of, namely suspected atopic allergies, were 
first noticed on 24 August 2019. Which of course pre-dates the policy starting. Which in turn 
raises the flag that this is a pre-existing condition. So initially I dont consider RSA did 
anything wrong in declining this claim. 
Following the initial declinature of the claim, Mr and Mrs Hs vet wrote to RSA on 8 February 
2022. He said there was no evidence of atopic/allergic focus before the consultation of 16 
December 2020. He felt he was dealing with isolated otitis externa symptoms predominantly 
of a ceruminous focus. So, he felt the symptoms start date of 24 August 2019 on the claim 
form was an error and the actual start date should be 16 December 2020. He believed that 
more accurately represented the time in which allergies were suspected.
 
Given this, RSA had its own vet look at the case. He explained that there are four 
components behind otitis externa, predisposing, primary, secondary, and perpetuating 
factors. Of these, only primary causes can initiate otitis, meaning the other three cant cause 
it, they merely make it worse. Cerumen production of part of the predisposing factor, so it 
doesnt cause it. He explained the most common cause of recurrent otitis is allergies. The 
other causes would be foreign bodies, autoimmune disorders, ectoparasites, neoplasia, 
endocrinopathies, or immune diseases. He said its clear from the vet history that Mr and 
Mrs Hs dog shows only signs of one primary cause, namely allergies. 
RSAs vet also said that he didnt think the date on which Mr and Mrs Hs vet now wanted to 
be the start of clinical signs first being noticed made sense given the vet history. This is 
because on this date the vet history immediately goes on to talk of allergies despite 
referencing only an otitis flare up. No other skin issues were noted, merely a refence to biting 
paws. The RSA believed this vet was of course connecting to the dots given this further flare 
up of otitis as a possible allergy at this time given the continual flare ups. Therefore, he felt 
the onset of the clinical signs was correct as first stated namely 24 August 2019 which 
means the claim related to a pre-existing condition.
 
I am more persuaded by the thoughts of the RSA vet rather than Mr and Mrs Hs vet for two 
reasons. The first being its clear to me that Mr and Mrs Hs vet did initially think the 
suspected allergy started on 24 August 2019 given the persistent flare ups since plus RSA 
vets has explained that ear issues as this dog suffered repeatedly had to have a primary 
cause and its was most likely that that primary cause was allergies. Therefore, I dont agree 
as Mr H said that RSA are declining this claim on zero evidence as RSAs own vet has 
explained the issue satisfactorily for me, whereas Mr and Mrs Hs vet was less persuasive. 
The policy schedule clearly defines what a pre-existing is, namely the following:
signs or symptoms of diagnosed or undiagnosed injuries or illnesses;
existing illnesses or injuries;
existing physical abnormalities;
existing illnesses, injuries or physical abnormalities which lead to other health 
issues or injuries;
illnesses or injuries which are medically linked to existing illnesses, injuries or 
physical abnormalities..
The policy itself makes it clear on the issues of existing conditions that:
we will not pay claims for any changes that you or your vet notices in your pets 
health or behaviour before this policy started, or any illness or injury that develop 
from these changes.
I consider the several instances of otitis externa were pre-existing consequently. Therefore, I 
dont consider RSA did anything wrong in refusing to pay this claim.
My final decision
I do understand and appreciate that Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, but 
for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman