DRN-3076509
The complaint
 Mr O complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc unfairly declined payments he was making
monthly from his credit card account.
What happened
On 5 November 2020, The Co-op declined a transaction for £9.99 on Mr Os credit card. It
sent a text message to his mobile device but received no response. Because it heard
nothing back from him, its automated system called his mobile which Mr O responded to
confirming the payment was genuine.
Shortly after, Mr O spoke directly with a customer service agent of the bank on the
telephone, explaining what the payments were for and that it was a monthly transaction. He
wanted to ensure that his payment is made each month and will not be declined now he has
confirmed them to be genuine.
On 18 November 2020, Mr O contacted the bank again because a further payment had been
declined. Due to the lack of payment, his agreement with the retailer had been cancelled.
During this conversation, he realised the payment he had confirmed as genuine on
5 November 2020 had not been released to the retailer as hed expected  and that it was
these two failed transactions which lead to the retailer cancelling his service with them. He
wanted to understand why the bank kept declining the payment, so he made a complaint.
Mr O has explained the bank should not decline his payments to the retailer. He says
nothing about them is suspicious; they are for a modest amount and to a well-known
establishment.
As Mr O wasnt happy with The Co-ops response, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He felt The Co-op has acted in line with the
terms and conditions of the account.
As Mr O didnt agree, the matter was referred to me. As I reached a different outcome to our 
investigator, I decided to issue a provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my thinking, before I issued my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I havent specifically mentioned something in my findings, it doesnt mean I havent 
considered the information. But more that I dont believe it needs to be commented on to 
reach, what I think, is a fair outcome.
In my provisional decision I said:
 I'm satisfied the payment was processed by the retailer, using Mr Os credit card details.
This means that its the retailer who takes the funds from Mr Os credit card  its not Mr O
who sends the funds to the retailer. This is important - as it determines whether its the bank
or retailer who is responsible for setting up the monthly payment. In this case, its the retailer
and therefore the retailers responsibility to reclaim the funds if the transaction fails.
It's not unusual for card issuers to block cards and decline transactions if it has concerns
about a particular transaction. It's often an automated system which considers many
variables, including - but not limited to  current fraud trends, type of transaction, receiving
party, amount being debited, and much more. While I appreciate the frustration Mr O would
have felt by not being given a definitive reason for the declined transactions, the criteria is
commercially sensitive and I think the Co-op has acted reasonably in not disclosing this
information.
The terms and conditions of the credit card account state:
"How to authorise a transaction
3.3 Sometimes we carry out additional monitoring or fraud-prevention checks (or both). If we
do, we wont treat a transaction as authorised until those checks are complete."
The Co-op says that is what has happened here, and I'm persuaded to accepted that.
I'm satisfied that The Co-op has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account in
its decision to decline the transactions. I can understand Mr O's frustrations with the declined
transactions, and in not having a clearer understanding as to why it was happening - after
all, on the face of it hes right - the payments are small, and to a well-known retailer.
However, although it isn't always apparent why a banks fraud detection system flags a
particular transaction, it doesn't mean it was wrong to do so. Ultimately, these systems are in
place to protect both the bank, and its customers. It's important for me to explain that Im not
in a position to tell The Co-op what security measures it takes when it decides to decline a
transaction, thats not what our powers allow
But I do have some concerns about how clearly the bank explained to Mr O what his next
steps ought to be. The Co-op must make sure it communicates with its customers in a
manner which is fair, clear, and not misleading.
The bank has explained to us, when it declines a transaction, the purpose of them reaching
out to their customer isnt to release the funds, but to determine whether it ought to unblock
the card itself.
I've listened to the call Mr O had with The Co-op on 5 November 2020. Although the case
handler mentioned Mr Os card has been unblocked, there was no mention to him that the
payment would not be released to the retailer and that hed need to contact them again so
they can take the payment.
It seems the bank accepts its customers might need to be prompted to get back in touch with
the retailer to ensure the funds are sent. I say this because the bank has provided a
templated example of a text message it sends to its customers which states:
Thanks for confirming the transaction is made by you. If any of your transactions were
declined please check with the retailer to see if you need to make any payments again, just
wait 5 minutes before trying your card. Thanks for using our fraud protection service
The bank has said that this message is also delivered on the automated call to customers,
which Mr O received.From listening to the calls between Mr O and the agents, Im satisfied that Mr O didnt realise
that he needed to reach out to the retailer  and the first he understood this was when he
was informed on 18 November 2020 on the telephone call.
Even if the message was delivered to Mr O on the automated telephone call, I can
understand why he thought there was nothing further for him to do to complete the
transaction. I think it reasonable he would act upon his experiences on that phone call more
than he would the automated system.
Its the bank who is the expert here and Mr O had contacted them for clarity on the declined
transaction. I'm persuaded that it ought to have been clearer with Mr O that he needed to
take further action for the payment to be made during the call he had on 5 November 2020.
And had it done so, I think he would have made the payment again. Instead, the ambiguity of
his whole experience has meant that Mr O didn't realise he needed to take further action,
and as a result the retailer terminated its contract with him.
I'm also concerned about his experience when he called the bank on 18 November 2020. I
can understand why Mr O would have felt dissatisfied with the agent. In the call, the agent
agreed to raise a complaint, but within moments told him that the answer to his complaint is
that its rejected. This was not the right thing to do - and I can understand why Mr O felt like
his complaint wasn't being taken seriously.
Mr O has not suffered a financial loss due to the lack of clarity from The Co-op but Im
satisfied he has experienced frustration and inconvenience by the banks lack of clarity. Had
The Co-op been clearer, he would have avoided the retailer cancelling its services with him
and been spared spending time trying to sort out the issues.
It's for the above reasons I'm persuaded that the bank ought to compensate Mr O £100.
Mr O agreed with the PD. 
The Co-op says that when Mr O contacted the bank on the phone, he knew the transaction 
had been declined and its advisor had no reason to think otherwise. I think I have addressed 
this already in the PD and believe The Co-op ought to have done more to make it clear to  
Mr O what his next steps should be. 
It also explained that the advisor logging the complaint is able to make a decision whether 
the complaint ought to be upheld or not. This is not in dispute but I do think the manor in 
which it was done added further frustration to Mr O.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay 
Mr O £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman