DRN-3370474
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc have treated him unfairly following a payment 
into his account.
What happened
On 31 August 2021, Mr M received £4,000 into his bank account from his ex-partners 
account, who Ill refer to as Miss X. A few days later, Barclays Bank received an indemnity 
claim from Miss Xs bank stating that Mr M was a recipient of a fraudulent transaction. 
Barclays Bank placed a block on Mr Ms accounts pending an internal review. Mr M 
complained that they didnt tell him about the blocks on his account nor gave reasons to 
explain why they were reviewing his accounts. 
Mr M explained that not having access to his accounts meant he couldnt buy food or fuel. 
He also needed to replace his blue badge, and since he wasnt able to, he received two 
parking tickets of £70. He says he also had to renew his home insurance at an additional 
cost of £154. He asked Barclays Bank to reimburse these costs and compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Following the investigation, Barclays Bank removed the blocks from Mr Ms accounts. And 
they returned the funds to Miss Xs bank. Mr M complains that Barclays Bank have treated 
him unfairly in doing so. He says that as part of an agreement with Miss X, he was making 
regular payments into her account to help her build her credit rating and earn some interest. 
But the funds belonged to him which he indicated by using the same reference for all the 
transactions.
Mr M goes on to explain that Miss X had agreed and authorised him to have access to her 
online banking. And when they separated, he transferred the money to himself from Miss Xs 
account. He feels Miss X has acted maliciously when she reported this transaction as 
unauthorised to her bank. He believes he has provided evidence to show the funds belong to 
him.
Barclays Bank said they followed the correct process in reviewing the account and returning 
the funds to Miss X. They say the ownership of the funds is a civil matter between the two 
parties. They explained the review was completed in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and within their timescales of 15 working days. They also said they didnt need to 
give Mr M a reason for completing the review.
Our investigator said that Barclays Bank had acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account in carrying out the internal review. He said they didnt need to give Mr M reasons 
for carrying out the review or pay compensation. He was satisfied it was reasonable for 
Barclays Bank to return the funds to Miss Xs account. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I recognise the 
strength of Mr Ms feelings, and I know this outcome will be disappointing to him. So, Ill 
explain why.
Mr M has provided detailed submissions and made a number of different arguments. I want 
to assure him that Ive read and considered everything he has sent to us. But I dont intend 
to respond to every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail hed like. 
Instead, Ill only concentrate on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, 
its not because I havent considered it, but simply because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
Blocks on the accounts
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account and they say:
We may stop or suspend the use of any of your payment tools if: ...
We suspect or you tell us there may be unauthorised or fraudulent use of the tool 
If we need to do this, well explain why  unless that would break the law. Well 
contact you using the details you have given us as soon as we can. Where we can, 
well contact you in advance. 
If the reason for stopping or suspending the payment tool no longer applies, well 
unblock it or replace it.
They also say:
Well do all we can to carry out your instructions. However, we dont have to follow 
any instructions for any of these reasons 
We reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, 
scam or any other criminal activity. This includes where we reasonably think the 
funds are being obtained through deception ...
Unless the law prevents us, well try to contact you as quickly as possible to tell you 
why we havent followed an instruction and to explain why 
We may apply financial and other limits to your instructions We also apply internal 
controls, including limits, to some payments. For security reasons, we change these 
and dont always say what they are
Based on this, Im satisfied Barclays Bank were entitled to block Mr Ms accounts and refuse 
to carry out his instructions pending an internal review, if they had genuine concerns.
Barclays Bank received an indemnity request from Miss Xs bank stating that Mr M was a 
recipient of a fraudulent transaction. Given this, Barclays Bank had legitimate reasons to 
block Mr Ms accounts while they investigated it. This is in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. I understand that it wouldve been concerning and frustrating for Mr M not knowing why the 
account was blocked. However, as per the terms and conditions of the account, Barclays 
Bank werent required to share this information with him for reasons including their legal, 
regulatory and statutory obligations.
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank didnt notify him that his account was being reviewed. 
But I can see he called them on 6 September 2021 after being unable to use his card the 
same day his accounts were blocked. He was informed during this call that an internal 
review was taking place. So, there wasnt any delays in Mr M becoming aware of the 
situation.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M faced when he didnt have access to his account. 
The nature of these types of internal reviews sometimes mean that customers are caused 
distress and inconvenience. But it doesnt mean Barclays Bank were wrong to carry out the 
review  even if everything turned out to be fine. 
Given that Ive concluded that Barclays Bank havent done anything wrong in blocking Mr 
Ms account, I cant fairly hold them responsible for the costs he has incurred or ask them to 
pay him compensation.
That said, I would expect Barclays Bank to deal with the review of the account without 
avoidable delays, and take into consideration Mr Ms situation ensuring he had access to 
some of his funds, such as benefits for day to day expenses.
I can see from the system notes that when Mr M called Barclays Bank on 6 September 
2021, he was told to go into the branch to withdraw his benefits. They also offered to transfer 
funds to a known payee. 
Although Mr M refused both of these options at the time, I think they were reasonable 
suggestions which still gave him access to funds he required for basic expenses. Mr M was 
able to withdraw funds from his account in branch on 8 September 2021.
Barclays Bank also carried out the internal review promptly and within their timescales of 15 
working days. Mr Ms account was first blocked on 6 September 2021 and then his access to 
the account was restored on 10 September 2021. 
So, while I dont underestimate the impact on Mr M when he didnt have access to his 
account, Im satisfied Barclays Bank have treated him fairly here.
Returning funds to Miss Xs bank
Firstly, its important for me to clarify that its not my role here to establish if the funds in 
question belong to Mr M or if Miss X has acted maliciously. This is a civil matter between Mr 
M and Miss X. Instead, I need to consider whether the actions of Barclays Bank were fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigation carried out by Barclays Bank showed several payments and credits from 
Miss X prior to the fraud claim. She was listed as a known payee on Mr Ms account and had 
the same sort code and account number as the transaction claimed as fraudulent came 
from. Barclays Bank also considered Mr Ms activity and usage of his accounts.
With this information, I think it was reasonable for Barclays Bank to conclude it wasnt a 
fraud attempt but rather a civil matter between the two parties involved. Given this, it wasnt unreasonable for them to return to funds to Miss Xs bank. They also acted as Id expect by 
removing the blocks and providing Mr M full access to his account. 
I appreciate Mr M wanted Barclays Bank to have asked him for a statement of what had 
transpired and further evidence. But I dont think they needed to ask for further information.
I say this because, I wouldnt expect Barclays Bank to investigate the dispute between the 
two parties or make a decision on whether the claim raised by Miss X was malicious. 
Mr Ms own testimony is that when he separated from Miss X, he took the money back from 
her account himself. This is consistent with the claim made by Miss Xs bank that funds were 
removed from the account by someone other than her.
I appreciate Mr M says that he had access to Miss Xs online banking with her agreement. 
Hes also explained he transferred funds into and out of the account using a specific 
reference. 
But ultimately, the account was in Miss Xs sole name and she has reported to her bank that 
this transaction took place without her authorisation. As explained above, its not for our 
service or Barclays Bank to determine if Miss X has raised this claim maliciously.
Given the circumstances, I think Barclays Bank acted fairly and reasonably by returning the 
money to Miss Xs bank and therefore restoring the status quo. Its now a dispute for Mr M to 
resolve with Miss X directly.
All things considered, Im satisfied Barclays Bank treated Mr M fairly and reasonably here.
I note Mr M has mentioned hes unhappy Barclays Bank have refused to process his 
information request. If he wishes to pursue this complaint point further, hell need to raise 
this with Barclays Bank separately. Ive not considered it in reaching my decision here, as it 
doesnt form part of the complaint that Mr M referred to our service on 10 September 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman