DRN-3750817
The complaint
Mr S complains about the administration of his personal pension by ReAssure Limited.
What happened
In 2020 the responsibility for administering Mr Ss pension was transferred from Legal &
General (L&G) to ReAssure.
Mr S called ReAssure about his pension at the end of September 2020. In mid-October
2020, Mr S chased ReAssure by email as hed not received the promised letter inviting him
to view his pension using the online portal.
On 31 October 2020, ReAssure wrote to Mr S to say that due to missing payments of more
than £121,000, a life cover of over £72,000 was at risk.
In late November 2020 and again in mid-December 2020, Mr S called ReAssure to try and
find out why the value of his pension was lower than expected.
On 19 December 2020 ReAssure wrote to Mr S to say that his policy had a total loss in value
of more than £42,000 due to a lapse of one of the coverages of his policy.
In March 2021, ReAssure apologised that due to an administrative error, a coverage on
Mr Ss policy was lapsed. ReAssure said it was trying to reinstate the coverage but this
meant the online portal wouldnt show the correct value. ReAssure told Mr S that he could
send an email to ask for the current value. ReAssure also confirmed that its letter about the
missing payments had been sent by mistake.
ReAssure sent Mr S a cheque for £200 to apologise which he didnt accept. In July 2021,
ReAssure sent Mr S a pension valuation for more than £88,500, which it says was the
correct value as at that point.
The investigator recommended that ReAssure pay Mr S an additional £200 and provide a
statement of the units in the pension at the point it was transferred to ReAssure from L&G.
As ReAssure didnt respond to the investigators recommendation, the complaint came to me
for a decision.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 
September 2021. I said:
Since I started considering Mr Ss complaint, ReAssure has responded to my request for a
statement showing the units that were transferred to ReAssure from L&G when it took over
Mr Ss pension. ReAssure has also provided copies of Mr Ss annual pension statements
from February 2020. These show details of his Formerly Protected Rights pension pot and
Non-Protected Right pension pot. I asked the investigator to share these with Mr S so he
could consider them together with my provisional decision.
When ReAssure wrote to Mr S on 27 July 2021, it told him that the fund and transfer value
was £88,566.21. Mr S spoke with our investigator at the end of September 2021 and said
that hed checked the online portal to see the value of his pension fund was around £90,000.
But that he still wasnt sure the correct number of units were in place.
ReAssure sent this service an email on 9 September 2021 in which it said that work is still
ongoing to reinstate the affected coverage and that due to this, it will not be possible for
Mr S to obtain details of his plan via the online portal. He is free to contact us at any point.
However, ReAssure also said that the letter to Mr S of 27 July 2021 confirmed the values of
his plan and that these details will be correct as due to the ongoing work to reinstate the
coverage calculations will be completed by our specialist team ensuring they are correct.
I am conscious of the fact that Mr S has been waiting for an answer from this service for
some time. Based on the limited information that ReAssure has given Mr S and this service,
it appears likely that the valuation from late July 2021 was correct. However, Mr S remains
concerned about the transfer of his pension from L&G to ReAssure.
Mr S wants ReAssure to provide a reconciliation to show that his policy was transferred
correctly together with details of how the value of his policy at the point of transfer relates to
the current value. The unit statement that ReAssure provided recently shows the total
number of units across four funds to be 5990.38 when it took the policy over in August 2020.
Whereas the valuation from late July 2021, records the number of units to be 5,058.4407  a
drop of more than 900 units. Whilst there may be good reasons for this, it seems reasonable
for ReAssure to provide the reconciliation to Mr S and this service in a format that is easy to
understand. If ReAssure considers the reconciliation request unreasonable, it should explain
its reasons why - otherwise the request will form part of my final decision.
I agree with the investigator that the £200 compensation ReAssure offered isnt adequate
given the problems that Mr S had faced. ReAssure gave him conflicting and incorrect
information  both about the value of his pension fund and that he owed a substantial sum in
missed payments.
To put things right, I will require ReAssure Limited to pay Mr S £400. For the avoidance of
doubt, this includes the £200 already offered. Mr S says he hasnt cashed the £200 cheque
that ReAssure sent him. Its unlikely that Mr Ss bank would now accept that cheque given
that more than six months has passed since it was written. So, if Mr S accepts my decision,
ReAssure will have to issue a new cheque to him for £400.
Further submissions
ReAssure didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr S replied to say that hed just checked 
the online portal and could see a total of 5056.1962 units (which was about two units less 
than the late July 2021 figure that I referred to in my provisional decision) So, Mr S remains 
concerned to find out how ReAssure has arrived at the current unit figure of around 5056, 
when in August 2020, L&G transferred over 5990 units.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ss concern about why the number of units in his pension appear to 
have dropped by more than 900 units between August 2020 and the current date. It still 
seems fair to me that ReAssure should give Mr S the easily understandable reconciliation 
that I referred to in my provisional decision. As ReAssure didnt respond to my provisional 
decision and Mr S hasnt objected to it, I consider it reasonable to make my final decision along similar lines.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he shouldnt attempt to cash the £200 cheque that ReAssure 
previously sent to him as ReAssure should issue a new payment for £400.
Putting things right
To put things right, ReAssure Limited should:
provide Mr S with a reconciliation to show that his pension was transferred correctly, 
together with an explanation of why the number of units held at the point of transfer 
from L&G differs to the number of units held by ReAssure at the current time
pay Mr S £400 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require 
ReAssure Limited to take the above steps.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman