DRN-3073698
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
under his HomeServe Plumbing and Drainage Plus home emergency policy when he 
contacted it about a leak in his home.
What happened
In the evening of 21 May 2021, Mr K contacted Aviva to report a leak in his home. He turned 
off the water supply to prevent further damage. Aviva told him it would contact him the 
following morning. Mr K didnt receive a call on the morning of 22 May, so he called Aviva 
again to be told that an engineer would be with him before 18:00 that day, but again he didnt 
receive a call.
Mr K says that he was left with no water, and he has two young children. The family had to 
go to a friends house to use the toilet. That day was also his wedding anniversary and he 
had planned to cook a meal at home but instead they had to go out for dinner and had to 
stay for three nights with friends.
Aviva has said there was a misunderstanding and by accident his call wasnt allocated 
correctly so an appointment was booked for the following day, 23 May.
An engineer attended on the morning of 23 May and noted that water was coming through 
the kitchen ceiling. The floor of the bathroom above was all tiled, and the engineer said hed 
need to gain access through the kitchen ceiling. Mr K wasnt happy for him to do this until 
hed spoken to his home insurers to check whether he was covered for the damage caused 
by such access.
Mr K subsequently had the leak fixed through his home insurers.
Aviva has refunded Mr K with the £30 excess he paid. It has also paid him compensation of 
£80 but Mr K wants to be reimbursed for the dinner he had to pay for, which was 
approximately £150.
As Mr K wasnt happy with the compensation offered by Aviva he brought a complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered that the inconvenience suffered by Mr K was greater 
because he had two children to take care of, and the family had to stay with friends because 
of the lack of water in their home. Her view was that compensation of £150 was more 
appropriate to reflect the inconvenience Mr K experienced.
In response to our investigators view, Aviva asked if Mr K had had the leak repaired by his 
home insurers and whether they had had to break through the kitchen ceiling to do so. Mr K 
said his home insurance engineer had found the source of the leak without opening the 
kitchen ceiling. The leak was from the shower pump, which he isolated.
As Aviva disagrees with our investigators view its asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
I agree with the reasoning of our investigator as to why the inconvenience to Mr K, with two 
young children whose home had the water turned off to prevent further damage, was greater 
than it might have been for someone else.
I dont accept Avivas submission that Mr K didn't have the inconvenience of having no water 
as he states he went to a friends house. Having to go to someone elses house for basic 
needs is in itself an inconvenience. Nor do I accept its submission that an emergency 
ceases to be an emergency because the insured takes action to prevent further damage, in 
this case turning off the water supply.
If Aviva had arrived on the day it told Mr K it would, Mr Ks response to the engineers view 
that it was necessary to break through the kitchen ceiling might have been the same. But Mr 
K could then have contacted his home insurers that much earlier.
Our investigator didnt take into account the fact that the leak was addressed by Mr Ks 
home insurers engineer without the need to damage the kitchen ceiling, but I think this is 
relevant. If Avivas engineer had attended as scheduled on 22 May, and correctly assessed 
the source of the leak at that visit, the need for Mr K and his family to stay with friends could 
have been avoided, and Mr K could have enjoyed his wedding anniversary evening at home 
and saved himself £150. Mr K would also not have been without water for the three days it 
took for the source of the leak to be correctly identified and fixed by another engineer.
My opinion is that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for Mr Ks inconvenience, 
distress, and disappointment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr K compensation of £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman