DRN-2653752
The complaint
Mr K complains N26 Bank GmbH unfairly retained funds he held in his account after the 
account closed. He wants those funds refunded.
What happened
Mr K held an account with N26 Bank. N26 contacted him to say it was closing his account 
with immediate effect. Mr K asked for the remaining balance in his account to be returned. 
But N26 said there was nothing to return. The funds in the account had been used to meet 
third party claims.
Mr K complained to N26, who rejected his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr K 
brought his complaint to our service. He said all the funds in his account were genuine. And 
most of the payments represented returns from trading in a cryptocurrency via a friend.
During the time Mr Ks complaint has been with our service, he complained about a CIFAs 
marker N26 recorded against him. The investigator who considered this complaint said the 
matter of the CIFAs marker would be considered separately under a different complaint. 
Mr K clarified he did not want to complain about the closure of his account as part of this 
complaint. Instead, he wanted to complain about N26 retaining funds which were rightfully 
his.
The investigator decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. In summary they found:
- N26 has important legal and regulatory responsibilities to meet. Considering all the 
information available, N26 had acted reasonably and its actions were done to fulfil 
those responsibilities. It didnt need to give Mr K its reasons in full.
- Mr K hadnt provided evidence to show what the payments into his account were for. 
So, there wasnt enough evidence to conclude the funds in the account were his.
Mr K disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. He asked for a final decision from 
an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why:
- N26 hasnt provided its full reasons to Mr K on why it didnt return the funds in his 
account. It said there were no funds to return because of claims on the account. But 
N26 isnt obliged to provide its full reasons, and I dont require it to reveal them now.
- Mr K says the funds in his account were his, and if N26 think differently, it needs to 
tell him which payments it considers were fraudulent. He says he has not committed 
wrong doing in relation to his account. But the matter of whether there any wrong 
doing was committed as a matter of law is not for me to decide. That would be for the 
courts to consider.
- I dont find N26 had to say which payment(s) related to the claim(s) it received. There 
is no law which required N26 to reveal this information to Mr K, particularly as this 
kind of information could identify the third party. Instead, I have considered all the 
information and evidence available, and Im satisfied N26s decision not to return the 
funds was justified and was done to meet its regulatory and legal responsibilities.
- Mr K hasnt been able to provide evidence of the origin of the payments into his 
account. He says his friend who invested on his behalf no longer holds the account, 
so documentary proof isnt available. Ive accounted for his reasons, but when 
balanced against the other information I have available, his explanation isnt enough 
for me to find N26 should reimburse him.
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman