DRN-4253953
The complaint
Mr T complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to credit his account with the 
amount of cash which he said hed tried to pay into a machine.
What happened
On 3 November 2022, Mr T went into a Barclays branch to pay in cash. There was a long 
queue, so he went to a machine, and he put in the money and his bank paying-in slip. The 
machine rejected the transaction and returned the notes with the top one crumpled. Mr T 
took the rejected money and his paying-in slip, and joined the queue to have the cash paid in 
by a cashier.
When the cashier counted the £20 notes, she told Mr T that the amount was £1,160, and not 
£1,600 as Mr T had said. Mr T was shocked, and looked around on the bank floor as he 
couldnt believe the money had disappeared. She said that it was £1,160 which Mr T had 
written on the paying-in slip too. Mr T said he could only think the machine had interpreted it 
as £1,160 too. 
Mr T believed that the missing £440 could only be in the Barclays machine. He noticed that 
the first £20 returned had been folded over, and part of his paying-in slip was still attached to 
the counterfoil. He thought this would be the reason why there had been a problem with the 
machine.
The cashier told Mr T that if the money was still in the machine, it would be retrieved at the 
end of the banking day. She took Mr Ts phone number. The manager later rang him back 
and said there was no money left in the machine. Mr T didnt believe that the money wasnt 
in the machine and thought it had malfunctioned. He couldnt believe hed have been the 
only one affected. He complained.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that the branch had carried out a thorough 
investigation, and the machine was balanced when the branch closed that day. There wasnt 
any cash left in the machine, and it had balanced correctly. Barclays told Mr T that money 
paid into a machine could be rejected for a number of reasons. One was if the notes were 
crumpled. Another was if the amount the customer had keyed in didnt match the amount of 
notes theyd put into the machine. Barclays said that the branch cashier had counted the 
money Mr T paid in, and it was £1,160, which looked like the figure on the bottom of the 
paying-in slip which Mr T gave the cashier. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said that the cashier had interpreted the 
figure hed put on the paying-in slip as £1,160 and he thought this was how Barclays error 
had happened. He told the investigator that Barclays wouldnt allow its staff to open and 
inspect a cash machine, and the machine must have read his paying-in slip as £1,160 too.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that Mr T had told Barclays that hed 
obtained the money from two transactions  but hed told the investigator that the money 
came from having sold his car. The investigator asked Mr T for clarification, and any 
evidence of where the money came from, but Mr T hadnt supplied this. The investigator said 
that the evidence suggested there werent any processing errors with the transaction, and he 
wasnt convinced by what Mr T had said. So he thought it was likely that the cash he paid in 
didnt match the £1,600 which Mr T had put on the paying-in slip.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he took great exception to the investigator saying he hadnt 
clarified where the money had come from, and not being believed when he said it came from 
selling his car for £1,600 in cash. He said he didnt have the original paying-in slip but sent a 
sample paying-in slip. He said he didnt know how the investigator could have reached his 
decision without having seen the original paying-in slip. He said the cashier had 
misinterpreted his handwriting, and the machine must have done the same. Mr T also said 
he didnt believe anyone in the Barclays branch had the authority to check the machine, 
which he believed could only be done by whichever external company which Barclays used.
Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr T feels strongly about his complaint. And as I wasnt present at the time, 
I cant tell for certain what happened. Whenever this happens, I take my decision on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened.
Mr T believes that the problem arose because of the hand-written figure which he entered on 
the paying-in slip. But the amount written on the paying-in slip isnt relevant here. What 
matters is the actual amount of notes which were paid in. The machine would have counted 
the notes and compared that with the figures Mr T keyed into the machine keypad, rather 
than going by the hand-written figures on the paying-in slip. The amount which should have 
been credited to Mr Ts account is the amount of the notes, regardless of what the paying-in 
slip said, or how Mr Ts handwriting might have been read. So Ive considered the evidence 
about how much actual cash was deposited.
The cashier counted the notes more than once, in front of Mr T, and Mr T believes it was the 
machine which retained his money. So I consider its most likely that the amount Mr T 
handed to the cashier was £1,160. This leaves the only possibilities as the machine having 
retained the disputed £440, or Mr T being mistaken in the amount he paid in. He said he 
counted it out the night before, but he might have used some for some other purpose which 
hes forgotten.
Mr T believes that Barclays staff wouldnt have had the power to check the machine, and 
only an external company would have done, but thats not the case. Barclays staff checked 
the machine at the end of the day, and Ive seen the machine-dated computer printouts of 
what the machines records showed. 
The key evidence here is whats shown on the machine records, and Ive looked carefully at 
this. It showed that the machine balanced at 16.25 that day, and there was no money left 
over in the machine. This indicates that the amount which the machine returned to Mr T was 
the amount hed put in, or there would have been a discrepancy on the machines log. 
Barclays also told us that no other customers reported a problem with the machine that day. 
The machine evidence means that I think its most likely that Mr T was mistaken in how 
much he paid in, and that it was likely to have been £1,160 not £1,600. So I dont require 
Barclays to refund Mr T with £440.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman