DRN-3571882
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund a 
withdrawal where he says the cash did not dispense.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr M made two £250 withdrawals at a cash machine. He explained that on 
one of the withdrawals, the money either didnt come out or was swallowed back in, and he 
didnt receive it.
Halifax checked things with the ATMs owner and said the cash had dispensed correctly. 
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that based on the evidence, it really did look like the cash had dispensed correctly. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
I sent Mr M and Halifax a provisional decision on 1 June 2022, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Broadly speaking, if the disputed cash machine withdrawal didnt get processed correctly, 
then Halifax would need to refund it. Whereas if it went through OK, then Halifax would not 
need to refund it. Ive looked carefully at the evidence to determine whats most likely to 
have happened here.
According to the ATMs electronic records, for both withdrawals Mr M entered his PIN and 
requested £250. On both occasions, its recorded that the £250 dispensed correctly without 
any errors, and the cash was taken without being swallowed back in at any point.
The customers before and after Mr M were also able to use the machine without any issues. 
The ATM does not appear to have had any problems at the time.
If the ATM had not dispensed £250, or if it had swallowed the cash back in, then there would 
have been £250 or so of extra cash in it afterwards. But the machine was checked later that 
same day by a staff member, and it balanced correctly. They certified that there was no extra 
cash in it at all.
So the evidence strongly suggests that the cash machine withdrawals went through 
correctly, and that the ATM dispensed £250 successfully on both occasions. Ive not seen 
anything which substantiates that anything went wrong with the machine. So I do not 
currently have a fair basis on which to tell Halifax to refund the disputed withdrawal. 
In response to our adjudicator, Mr M said there was a police report hed like us to see which 
he said would show the ATM was malfunctioning. But hes not as yet provided this report. 
And Im not clear on how the police would have concluded the machine was malfunctioning, 
when theyre not normally cash machine analysts or engineers, and the relevant records all 
show the machine was working just fine at the time. From what Mr M told us previously, it 
sounds like the police said that the CCTV near the ATM wasnt working, rather than the ATM 
itself.
But in any case, if Mr M would like to provide this police report to us, then Ill be happy to 
consider it. So Ive written this as a provisional decision, rather than a final decision, in order 
to give Mr M further time to send us this report. To clarify, Mr M would need to obtain this 
report himself and forward it to us, and hed need to get it to us before the deadline of this 
provisional decision on 29 June 2022 if he wants me to take it into account.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
29 June 2022. But neither Mr M nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman