DRN-4416350
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a 
critical illness claim and provided poor customer service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them all here. In 
summary following a diagnosis of cervical cancer Mrs T made a claim on her decreasing 
term life assurance policy in March 2022. L&G declined the claim as it said Mrs T hadnt 
correctly answered a question asked at application stage. It did accept that the service it 
provided could have been better and offered £300 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think that L&G had done anything wrong by declining the claim. And 
she thought the offer of compensation was fair. Mrs T appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint and focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. I recognise that Mrs T will be very 
disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mrs T completed the application on 29 March 2022. The policy was to start on 8 April 2022. 
This policy was to replace two earlier policies  Ill come to that later. Mrs T was asked 
questions about her health, including the following:
When answering the following questions, if you're unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway.
Apart from anything you've already told us about in this application, do you have any medical 
condition or symptom that:
 your doctor or nurse told you to contact them about during the next 3 weeks?
Please ignore consultations for repeat prescriptions and pregnancy.
 During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
- unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth
- any other symptom that you may contact a health professional about for the first time
Mrs T answered no to the above questions. In order to assess Mrs Ts claim L&G requested 
specific medical details from her GP surgery. I wont repeat all the sensitive medical details 
here, but Mrs T saw her GP in February 2022 concerned about the bleeding. Then three 
days after completing the application form Mrs T went back to see her GP having made an 
appointment a couple of weeks earlier. The GP wrote: abnormal uterine bleeding for months. 
This is also consistent with the account she gave L&G when she called to make her claim. 
Her GP advised a smear test. Having seen the medical notes and considered Mrs Ts 
explanations, Im satisfied that L&Gs conclusion that Mrs T had failed to take reasonable 
care when answering this question was fair. She had experienced unexplained bleeding for 
which she was still under investigation.
L&G has shown that it wouldnt have provided cover to Mrs T had she correctly answered 
the question regarding the unexplained bleeding. It would have postposed her application. 
Following the diagnosis, it wouldnt have offered cover at that time. Accordingly, Im satisfied 
that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. L&G has said it was careless, 
rather than deliberate or reckless. I think thats fair in the circumstances. I say this because I 
accept that Mrs T didnt answer positively to the question because she thought the bleeding 
she was experiencing was either connected to her contraceptive or menopause.
This policy replaced earlier policies. I understand L&G is considering the claim under the 
earlier cover. If Mrs T remains unhappy at the conclusion of that assessment, she may refer 
the matter to this Service as a new complaint.
With regard to the service Mrs T experienced, L&G has accepted that there were delays. It 
said that although it isnt responsible for the time taken for third parties to respond to 
requests for information, it could have been more proactive in chasing a response. I can see 
that when the medical information was received L&G needed to follow up  this is usual but 
of course added to the time taken to assess the claim. When it had the requested 
information it did take L&G some time to reach a decision, although I can see that it did 
email and speak to Mrs T to keep her aware of the situation. But it does seem to me that Mrs 
T needed to do a lot of chasing. This was all against the background of Mrs Ts diagnosis 
and her difficult personal situation  having divorced and re-located. So I can appreciate it 
would have been a very stressful time for her and she was anxiously awaiting an answer to 
her claim. L&G admitted it had not offered Mrs T the high standard of service it aims to 
achieve. I agree and find that compensation is merited. I find that £300 is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint regarding the decline of her 
claim. 
With regard to the customer service failures L&G has already made an offer of £300 to settle this aspect of her complaint. I think that this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mrs T £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman