DRN-3046016
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the settlement Aviva Insurance Limited offered for a claim 
they made under their home insurance (buildings) policy.
References to Aviva include their agents.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their home insurance (buildings) policy with 
Aviva after water escaped from the tank in the loft, causing damage to the loft and three 
other rooms below. Mr M told Aviva they had their own builders they could use to complete 
the repairs.
Avivas loss adjusters arranged for a surveyor to visit the property to review the damage. 
They estimated the cost of repairs to be £1,704 with a further £500 for drying. Aviva offered 
Mr and Mrs M a settlement based on this. Mr M was unhappy with the settlement offered. 
Another builder had quoted him over £5,000 for the work.
 
Aviva arranged for its appointed building contractor to visit the property. The building 
contractors estimate of repairs was £942 after the excess had been deducted. 
Aviva offered for its own contractors to carry out the work if Mr and Mrs M didnt want to 
accept the cash settlement offered. Aviva has noted that Mr M said he wanted full details of 
the works carried out before hed consider using the contractors. Aviva said this wouldnt be 
possible without confirming they would be proceeding with the works. They would not know 
exactly what was needed to be done before starting the works as drying and strip out works 
would highlight any additional works required. Aviva agreed to escalate the matter to its 
complaints team.
 
Aviva offered to arrange for another estimate of costs to completed. It said this would be 
looked at independently of the original loss adjusters. But the surveyor who had originally 
visited the property returned. Another schedule of works was completed with an estimate of 
£3,439 to cover the cost of repairs and drying. 
Aviva increased its cash settlement offer to £3,239. It said it had reduced the policy excess 
from £350 to £200 because of the delays in dealing with the claim.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. Mr M didnt 
think the cash settlement offer was fair as he didnt believe it was enough to cover the 
repairs. He was also concerned that the same surveyor had been sent over for a second 
time after Aviva had assured him that it would be reviewed independently. He commented 
that the most recent schedule of works contained the original loss adjusters logo.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged that Avivas survey priced the work at a lower figure than the builder Mr M 
had obtained a quote from. But she was satisfied it covered the same work. She felt Aviva 
had come to a fair settlement in line with the policys terms and conditions. She also thought 
Avivas offer to reduce the excess by £150 was fair compensation for customer service 
issues and delay. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. Mr M didnt think anyone Aviva had 
sent to his property was competent to give a fair quote for the work. He said he was assured 
that a different person from a different company would be sent over, but it was the same 
surveyor pretending to be from a different company. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say that Aviva can choose to settle (a buildings) claim by:
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing;
payment.
According to Avivas notes, Mr M said he wanted to use his own builders to complete the 
repairs from when he first made the claim. Hes provided a quote hed requested from his 
own builder with an estimated price of £5,145 (excluding VAT). This is dated 12 January 
2021, which is the same date he notified Aviva of the claim.
Mr M says the building contractor who visited on 26 January 2021 didnt appear to be 
interested in completing the repairs. But the building contractors notes say Mr M was 
adamant that he does not want anyone to work on his house and this was purely a costing 
visit as he will be cash settling. Avivas notes of 17 February 2021 show that the option of 
the contractor carrying out the repairs was discussed with Mr M. So, Im satisfied that Aviva 
gave Mr M the option of the claim being settled by repair and that Mr M chose for it to be 
settled by cash.
Ive reviewed the scope of works that Aviva has provided from the survey that was carried 
out in March 2021. This is more detailed than the quote Mr M has provided from his own 
builder, but it appears to cover the same work. It gives a breakdown of costs which add up to 
the amount Aviva has based its cash settlement on. 
Mr M says the cash settlement Aviva has offered isnt enough to cover the work needing to 
be done. But most insurers have established relationships with building companies who 
agree rates that tend to be below the market price. As Mr M was offered a repair but chose a 
cash settlement, I think its fair for Aviva to pay him what it would have cost it if it had used 
its approved repairers. This might be less than it would cost Mr M to arrange for the repairs 
himself.
Mr M has expressed concerns that the final survey was completed by the same surveyor 
who originally assessed the damage after he was led to believe that someone independent 
would attend the property. I can see why Mr M was upset by this and felt he had been mis-
led. When being told someone independent would be coming out, it seems reasonable not to 
expect the same person to attend again. So, I do sympathise with Mr M on this point. But I 
also have to think about whether the second survey generated a fair result. And, regardless 
of who carried out the survey, I dont think the assessment of costs was unreasonable. I say 
this because it does provide a detailed breakdown of the repairs required, and I havent seen that it missed any necessary repairs at this stage. So, I dont think it was unfair of Aviva to 
have relied on this information when reaching the settlement figure. 
 
Avivas offer doesnt include an allowance for VAT. But Aviva says it will add VAT to the 
settlement if Mr M provides it with a VAT invoice to show he has to pay it. And I think this is 
fair. 
Mr M has mentioned that there has been further damage to his property, as a result of the 
same incident, since he brought his complaint to our service. Id suggest Mr M raises this 
with Aviva if he hasnt already done so, so it can assess whether additional damage has 
been caused and why. But given this wasnt part of his original complaint, this isnt 
something I am able to consider as part of this decision.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but I think Avivas offer to 
settle the claim was fair and in line with the terms of the policy.  And I think the £150 
reduction in excess is reasonable compensation for the delay and customer service issues 
Mr and Mrs M experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman