DRN-3293601
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt treated him fairly because it 
applied unfair charges and interest to his account and didnt request details of reasonable 
adjustments he required.
What happened
Mr G holds a current account with HSBC. 
He says that when he opened the account it had an interest-free overdraft and that he 
believed this would remain interest-free until it was paid off in full. 
Mr G says that charges and interest that had been applied to his account had caused him 
financial hardship. He said that due to his disabilities he found it difficult to understand the 
fees and charges on his account. 
Mr G made a complaint to HSBC, asking for a breakdown and explanation of all the charges 
and interest that had been applied. He also wanted HSBC to email him to request a copy of 
the reasonable adjustments he required. He said he wasnt able to tell HSBC about the 
reasonable adjustments he requires using its secure messaging system, because there 
werent enough characters available for him to do so.
HSBC responded to Mr Gs complaint, saying the charges and interest had been applied 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of his account. And although it didnt think it 
had acted unfairly, it credited Mr Gs account with £100, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G didnt agree with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and didnt agree that HSBC had acted fairly. She 
recommended HSBC take steps to put things right for Mr G. These steps included removing 
some of the interest and charges that had been applied and reworking the overdraft balance. 
HSBC agreed to our investigators recommendations, but Mr G did not. So the complaint has 
now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully about the issues Mr G has faced and how Mr Gs disabilities affect him. 
Mr G has told us he can get confused about finances as it takes him longer to understand 
and process things. So I appreciate it must have been frustrating when he was unable to tell 
HSBC about the reasonable adjustments he requires over its secure messaging system. 
I must first point out that its not my role to say whether a financial business has acted 
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the courts. My role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable here. And in order to do that, Ive taken a number of things into account, 
including relevant law, such as the Equality Act 2010. But ultimately, Ive reached my 
decision based on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
HSBC didnt request a copy of Mr Gs reasonable adjustments, as hed asked it to in his 
secure message. This meant the adjustments Mr G needed were not made and as a result 
he found it difficult to understand HSBCs correspondence and HSBC also called him without 
Mr G having received written communication about arranging the call first. 
I consider the secure message Mr G sent to HSBC about his reasonable adjustments to 
have been clear. I also consider it to have been unhelpful for HSBC to then send Mr G a final 
response letter without first having requested details of the reasonable adjustments he 
required, or trying to understand Mr Gs needs. So I dont consider it acted reasonably here. 
However, I can see from the information provided that HSBC later addressed Mr Gs request 
for reasonable adjustments  and offered him £100 as a gesture of goodwill. This amount is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is line with what I would have awarded in this 
case had no offer been made. This is because although HSBC couldve addressed Mr Gs 
concerns more promptly, it did then respond to each of Mr Gs questions individually. And 
although HSBC phoned Mr G without him receiving prior warning, I can see that it sent Mr G 
a text message before the phone call in order to give Mr G some notice before the call was 
made. Its unfortunate that the text message wasnt received until later, but I dont consider it 
to have been HSBCs intention to call Mr G unexpectedly or cause him any distress.
In relation to the interest and charges on the account, I should point out that I can only 
consider the interest and charges that were applied from 30 July 2014 onwards. This is 
because a separate final decision has been issued by another ombudsman at this service 
confirming the outcome on charges and interest added to this account prior to that date, and 
I cannot deviate from that decision or comment further on it. 
When HSBC responded to Mr Gs complaint, it sent him a summary of the charges and 
interest separately. Looking at the interest and charges I can consider under this complaint, I 
can see that Mr Gs account was dormant between 30 July 2014 and 7 January 2015, when 
HSBC carried out a review of the account. At this point, the account had been overdrawn for 
lengthy periods of time, and no payments were made to bring his account back into credit. 
HSBC continued to add interest and charges after reviewing the account, which I dont 
consider to have been fair. I say this because what HSBC wouldve seen indicated that Mr G 
was a customer who wasnt in a strong financial position and needed HSBC to treat him with 
forbearance. So I wouldve expected HSBC to treat him positively and sympathetically, 
offering support and making contact to discuss the account and options available to Mr G 
from that point on, rather than applying more interest and charges. So Im going to require 
HSBC to put things right for Mr G in the following way.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc must now:
Remove all interest and charges that were applied to Mr Gs account from 7 January 
2015 and rework the balance accordingly.
If an outstanding balance remains on the account, HSBC must work with Mr G in 
arranging a suitable repayment plan and adjust any negative information that has 
been recorded on Mr Gs credit file, to reflect the adjustments made.If no outstanding balance remains on the account, HSBC must return any credit to 
Mr G with the addition of 8% simple interest per annum , from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file if no outstanding balance 
remains after the adjustments have been made. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if Mr G asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC to put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman