DRN-2264056
The complaint
Ms P and Ms W complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P and Ms W took out an annual travel insurance policy on 2 January 2020. They had 
booked a trip to Australia and travelled abroad as planned on 23 February 2020. They were 
due to return via Singapore on 8 April 2020.
However, Singapores government closed its borders on 23 March 2020 as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, including to passengers in transit. So Ms P and Ms Ws airline cancelled 
their pre-booked return flights and their trip was cut short. Ms P and Ms W booked new 
flights back to the UK, which cost £590 per person and flew back on 22 March 2020. The UK 
government didnt advise return for UK tourists abroad until the following day, 23 March 
2020.
Ms P and Ms Ws airline refunded the cost of their pre-booked, cancelled flights. Ms P and 
Ms W also asked the airline to reimburse them for the cost of their new flights, but it didnt do 
so. So they made a curtailment claim for the cost of these flights on their travel insurance 
policy.
URV turned down the claim. It said the curtailment section of the policy didnt cover Ms P 
and Ms Ws situation. It suggested they should try and get a refund from the airline.
Ms P and Ms W were unhappy with URVs decision. They said the policy didnt specifically 
exclude curtailment claims which were down to the pandemic. They asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms P and Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
the curtailment section of the policy covered a governments decision to close its borders, or 
changes to Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO). The policy also specifically excluded 
prohibitive restrictions imposed by a government. So while she accepted Ms P and Ms W 
couldnt have foreseen theyd need to cut short their trip when they took out their policy, she 
thought it was fair for URV to turn down their claim.
Ms P and Ms W disagreed. They felt the frequently asked questions (FAQ) information URV 
had put on its website relating to Covid-19 suggested it would cover unforeseen events. And 
they felt their curtailment claim should be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that as the 
investigator explained to Ms P and Ms W, this decision will only focus on whether it was fair 
for URV to turn down their curtailment claim. Thats because their complaint points about the 
information set out in the FAQ section of URVs website havent been looked into by URV, 
although I understand they raised these issues with URV in October 2020. If they are 
unhappy with URVs response to that complaint, they may potentially be able to bring it to us 
as a new complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for URV to turn down Ms P and Ms Ws claim. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Ms P and 
Ms Ws policy and the circumstances of his claim in deciding whether URV acted fairly.
The If You Need to Come Home Early section of the policy sets out the things that it does 
and doesnt cover. So Ive looked carefully at what insured events it covers to decide 
whether I think it was reasonable for URV to turn down Ms P and Ms Ws claim. The policy 
says:
We will pay
Up to £2000 in total for the unused proportion of:
-Pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip;
-Loss of accommodation;
-Foreign car hire; and
-Either your pre-booked return travel costs, or the cost of your curtailment travel costs, 
whichever is the greater
That you have paid or agreed to pay and that you cannot recover from any other source 
following your necessary cutting short of your trip.
For:
Your early return home because of the death; illness or injury of:
-You or a friend with whom you are travelling;
-A close relative who lives in your home country;
-A close business associate who lives in your home country; or
-A friend who lives abroad and with whom you are staying.
Or
-You, a friend or close relative who is travelling with you being required for jury service 
or as a witness in a court of law;
Or
-You, a friend, business associate or close relative who is travelling with you being 
called back by the Police after your home, or the home in your home country of your 
friend, business associate or close relative, or usual place of business in your home 
country having suffered from burglary; serious fire; storm or flood.
Theres no dispute that on 23 March 2020, Singapore closed its borders due to the 
pandemic, which meant that Ms P and Ms Ws original pre-booked flights had to be 
cancelled. Theres also no dispute that theyd booked their holiday; taken out the policy and 
travelled before either the World Health Organisation designated Covid-19 as a pandemic on 
11 March 2020 or the FCO advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I acknowledge that Ms P and Ms W couldnt have foreseen that theyd need to cut short their 
trip, or that theyd need to arrange and pay for new flights.
I appreciate Ms P and Ms W feel strongly that their new flight costs, less the refund they 
received should be covered by the policy. I understand the cost of their new flights was more 
than the original flights theyd booked and Im sorry that theyve been left out of pocket due 
to the unprecedented situation they found themselves in.
But I think the policy clearly sets out the specific insured events it covers if a policyholder 
needs to cut short their trip. And in this case, the circumstances they found themselves in 
simply werent covered. And as I mentioned above, the FCO guidance to return home wasnt 
given until the day after Ms P and Ms W had already returned home.
The policy also sets out a list of general exclusions which set out events which arent 
covered and which apply to the whole policy. These include the following term:
Delay, confiscation, detention, requisition, damage, destruction or any prohibitive 
regulations by Customs or other government officials or authorities of any country. 
(Bold is my emphasis)
In my view, it seems the decision of the Singaporean government to close its borders would 
fall within the scope of prohibitive regulations by its authorities. So, in the circumstances of 
this case, I think Ms P and Ms Ws claim would be excluded from cover.
Taking all of the above into account, I think it was fair and reasonable for URV to conclude 
that Ms P and Ms Ws curtailment claim isnt covered by the policy terms and for it to decline 
the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman