DRN-4450218
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the 
money he lost, after he fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But, in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
In or around April 2023, Mr L was looking for different investment opportunities and came 
across one that interested him. He expressed an interest and was told that the opportunity 
offered a faster method of investment with guaranteed high returns. Believing everything to 
be genuine Mr L decided to invest. But unknown to him at the time, he was dealing with 
fraudsters.
Between 26 April 2023 and 22 May 2023, Mr L made a number of payments totalling 
£14,037 from his Halifax account. The payments were made by Open Banking to an account 
Mr L held with a cryptocurrency company and from there Mr L sent the money onto accounts 
that were controlled by the fraudsters.
On realising hed fallen victim to a scam Mr L raised the matter with Halifax, but it didnt 
uphold his complaint. In summary, it said there were various stages where Mr L couldve 
protected himself. It also considered the payments Mr L made were within his normal 
spending pattern, so didnt think it had any reason to be concerned.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and concluded there was no basis on which he could fairly 
and reasonably ask Halifax to refund Mr L the money he had lost. In summary he didnt 
consider the payments Mr L made would have appeared as particularly unusual or 
suspicious in appearance to Halifax, when considering his normal account and payment 
activity. So he didnt think Halifax should have realised Mr L was at risk of financial harm and 
being scammed.
Our Investigator also thought about whether Mr L was vulnerable to this scam, but he didnt 
think there was any indication that Halifax had been made aware of any vulnerabilities.
Through his representatives, Mr L didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, he 
maintained that the transactions were highly unusual and that he hadnt previously 
transacted to a cryptocurrency exchange. Mr L also shared details of his personal 
circumstances at the time, which he says enabled the fraudsters to perpetrate the scam.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the Investigator. Im 
extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr L. I can understand entirely why he feels 
so strongly that his money should be returned to him. Its important to clearly acknowledge 
that Mr L has been the victim of a crime here. Mr L has shared with us details of his 
circumstances at the time of the scam and has explained about the impact this has had on 
him. I can understand how losing this money has impacted him and Im sorry to hear of the 
difficult time hes been going through.
But I can only compel Halifax to refund Mr L if it is responsible for the loss incurred. Having  
carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can see no basis on which I can  
fairly say that Halifax should be held liable for some or all of Mr Ls loss. I will explain why.
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process  
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Mr L made the  
payments himself. He initiated the payments to the cryptocurrency company he held an 
account with and agreed that faster payments should be made from his Halifax account via 
Open Banking. This means that it was an authorised payment, even though Mr L did not 
intend for this money to go to fraudsters.
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Halifax 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that Halifax should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations 
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So Ive 
also considered whether Halifax should have identified that Mr L was potentially at risk of 
falling victim to fraud as a result of the payments, or otherwise done more to protect him.
Halifax did not identify the payments Mr L made as being out of character or suspicious at 
the time. When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of 
character, its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to strike 
between identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and allowing customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary 
disruptions.
On balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions in this case were so unusual or 
suspicious, that they ought to have alerted Halifax that Mr L was at risk of financial harm. I 
say this as, having looked through the activity on Mr Ls account, for the twelve months 
leading up to the scam, I can see there are numerous other transactions for similar/or higher 
amounts and it isnt uncommon for Mr L to make multiple payments on the same or 
consecutive days. Im also mindful, in the circumstances of this case, Mr L had previously 
sent payments to this cryptocurrency platform. So, by the time he came to make these 
payments, the platform was already established on his account as an existing payee, which 
was also a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange platform.
So having considered the payments Mr L made, Im not persuaded there was anything so 
unusual or untypical about them, that they ought fairly and reasonably to have given Halifax 
cause for concern that Mr L may have been at risk of financial harm. With the benefit of  
hindsight, we now know that the payments Mr L made were going to be lost to fraud. But 
when Mr L sent the money, this wouldnt have been obvious to Halifax.
I dont consider it reasonable to have expected Halifax to ask questions about payments that 
arent unusual or out of character. This means that I do not need to go on to consider 
whether anything Halifax could reasonably have been expected to do would have stopped 
Mr L from making the payments.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax ought to have refunded the loss for any other reason, 
and in particular, whether Halifax ought to have reimbursed Mr L under the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which Halifax 
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr L sent the money. But the CRM Code is  
quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only covers scam 
payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a consumers  
own account. In this case, Mr L sent the money to his own account held with a 
cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think Halifax is responsible for reimbursing him  
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Mr L has been brave enough to tell us something of his background. Which I imagine was  
hard to do, I thank him for this and can understand why he believes this would make him  
more susceptible to becoming a victim of this type of scam. I dont mean to in any way  
diminish the difficult personal circumstances Mr L has been faced with, but I cant see that  
the bank would have been aware of any vulnerabilities he had prior to the scam, so there  
was no reason for it to think he might be at higher risk of financial harm from fraud.
Ive also considered what attempts Halifax made to recover the funds from the fraudsters. 
Unfortunately, as the payments went to a cryptocurrency account in Mr Ls name before  
being sent on to accounts the fraudsters controlled, Halifax would not have had the option to 
recover the payments.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr L being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam  
that has had a significant impact on him. But it would only be fair for me to direct Halifax to 
refund his loss if I thought it was responsible for the failure that caused it. And for the  
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been able to prevent Mr Ls loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman