DRN-2687052
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the settlement Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) offered 
after it disposed of her kitchen units in error while completing work under her buildings 
insurance.
What happened
Miss B claimed under her buildings insurance for an escape of water in her kitchen which 
damaged the floor. RSA accepted the claim and appointed contractors to start repairs. 
Both parties are well aware of the events leading to Miss Bs complaint, so I wont repeat the 
detail here. In brief, because of incorrect instructions from another contractor party to the 
repair work, RSAs contractors removed and disposed of Miss Bs kitchen units instead of 
removing them for refit after drying. RSA accepted its mistake. It paid disturbance allowance 
(DA), compensation for its mistake, and offered to fit a new kitchen of the same specification 
as Miss Bs original kitchen. Miss B wasnt happy for its contractors to work on her kitchen, 
so she asked for a cash settlement. RSA agreed to cash settle but it didnt agree to the 
additional costs Miss B wanted for a new layout, lowered kitchen floor, and higher 
specification units.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She thought that RSA made a fair offer in 
line with the terms of the policy to restore Miss Bs kitchen. She also thought that the DA and 
compensation were reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss B didnt agree for the following reasons:
RSAs contractors quote for the extra work was more than she paid; 
RSA didnt provide her with a scope of works; 
the DA wasnt enough for the time taken;
RSAs agents wouldve taken longer because they each denied fault;
£250 compensation wasnt enough for the inconvenience caused, and
the policy terms are irrelevant because her claim was for the floor only. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Let me 
explain.
The overriding issue is that Miss B doesnt think RSA has done enough to compensate her 
after it took out and disposed of her kitchen units. RSA doesnt deny that it made a mistake, 
and it offered to fix it. I wont comment on every nuance of this complaint or each individual 
point  instead Ill address Miss Bs complaint as a whole.
Firstly, Im going to acknowledge not just the inconvenience, but also the disbelief Miss B 
mustve experienced. I dont imagine that she thought her claim for a damaged kitchen floor 
would result in all but one of her kitchen units being removed and discarded, leaving her 
without a kitchen for weeks. Put as simply as this, I can see why Miss B doesnt think RSAs 
offer of £250 compensation is enough. 
So, to put some perspective on its offer, Ive thought about what Miss Bs position wouldve 
been if the claim had run smoothly.
Miss B had a raised kitchen floor, constructed from floorboards, with a hard, wooden floor 
covering. Water from an appliance leaked through the floorboards, causing them to rot away, 
and damaged the plaster work and end panels. RSA needed to remove the floor-standing 
kitchen units, so it could dry out the kitchen, replace the floorboards, and complete all other 
necessary repairs, such as re-plaster the affected wall and renew the floor covering. RSA 
would then have refitted the kitchen units. The visible outcome of the claim wouldve been 
that Miss B had her original 10-year-old kitchen back in place with new floor covering. 
But the claim didnt run smoothly, and Miss Bs kitchen units were thrown away. RSA offered 
to replace the kitchen units with new ones of the same standard. If Miss B had accepted its 
offer, the visible outcome wouldve been that she had brand new kitchen units in the same 
layout as before, along with new floor covering. So, the only visible difference between this 
and the scenario where the claim ran smoothly, would be that Miss B had new kitchen units. 
I dont think that wouldve been detrimental.
Miss B didnt accept the offer because, for her own reasons, she didnt want RSAs 
contractors to do the work. She asked RSA to cash settle and it made an offer in line with 
the terms of her policy which says it need only pay what it wouldve cost it to do the work. 
And its here that I can see why Miss B doesnt think the terms of her policy are relevant. The 
repairs werent necessary because of her claim: they were necessary because of RSAs 
mistake.
Ive thought carefully about this issue. RSA relied on the terms of the policy, and if repairs 
were needed because of a straightforward claim, its likely I wouldve considered its offer fair. 
So, Ive thought about why it might not be fair in the given circumstances, but I cant see any 
reason why it isnt. RSA made a mistake, but I dont think that means it should pay more 
than is necessary to correct it.
At this point, its worth mentioning that Miss B decided to have her kitchen floor lowered, a 
new layout and upgraded units. I dont blame Miss B for turning what was already disruption 
and inconvenience into an opportunity to upgrade her kitchen and make adjustments to the 
layout. But I must consider whether its fair for RSA to pay towards that betterment. RSA 
wouldve restored the kitchen to a new version of how it was originally and that wouldve put 
Miss B back in the position she was in before the leak. Thats exactly what her policy is for. 
Asking RSA to cover the cost of the upgrade because it made a mistake isnt fair because it 
goes beyond putting matters right. 
So, in terms of the kitchen repairs, I think RSA made a fair offer to replace the units with 
similar standard new units or pay a cash settlement equal to what it wouldve paid to do the 
work. Ive looked at the details of the offer, which is commercially sensitive, and nothing 
looks out of the ordinary. But, if there are repairs which Miss B thinks RSA hasnt included in 
its cash offer, shed need to provide it with evidence to support her position so it can amend 
its offer if appropriate.  
Moving on, I said the mistake left Miss B without a fully operational kitchen for weeks. Some 
of this inconvenience was always going to happen because of the repairs needed for the original leak. This was provided for by RSA when it offered disturbance allowance. To be 
clear, DA is not compensation for living in the property when its being repaired. Its to cover 
additional direct costs caused by the lack of facilities, for example launderette costs, food 
bills over and above the usual bills because of the inability to store food or cook as usual. 
Here, Miss B used the washing facilities upstairs because she didnt have a kitchen sink, but 
she did have other appliances, such as cooker, microwave and fridge. Nevertheless, RSA 
paid DA at the standard industry rate for four weeks, which is the time it says it wouldve 
taken to replace the kitchen.
Miss B was without her kitchen for more than four weeks, so she doesnt think its enough. 
However, the evidence suggests that an element of the delay was because she didnt want 
to use RSAs contractors and also because of the additional work she had planned. RSA 
paid £800 in DA and I havent seen anything to indicate that Miss B evidenced additional 
costs above this (RSA would be entitled to ask for receipts) or that the DA was insufficient. 
As RSA didnt fit the kitchen, it wasnt responsible for the time it took to complete, particularly 
as it wasnt a straightforward replacement of the original units. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to ask it to pay for the additional time Miss B was without full kitchen facilities.
This brings me back to the issue of compensation. As I said, I can see why Miss B thinks 
RSA should compensate her for the inconvenience this matter caused her. I agree, but I 
think it already has. Miss B rejected its offer to replace her kitchen, so RSA offered the cash 
equivalent. That wouldve put her back in her original position. RSA paid £800 DA, which I 
think is a fair amount for any extra costs to those usually incurred. RSA paid £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I know Miss B doesnt think this is 
enough and its likely thats because shes still disheartened by the whole matter. The 
compensation is an additional amount, beyond the reasonable costs of RSA putting matters 
right, by way of apology. And taking into consideration the overall circumstances, I think 
RSAs payment is fair.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman