DRN-2971901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they
paid for a travel insurance policy.  
What happened
On 4 September 2019, Mr and Mrs T took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. It began on 5 September 
2019 and was due to expire on 4 September 2020. In total, the policy cost Mr and Mrs T 
£705.84, which included a discount of £256.80. The premium included cover for Mr and Mrs 
Ts medical conditions. Mr and Mrs T had taken a trip in the autumn of 2019, which was 
covered by the policy and they were planning to travel again in June 2020.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Ts travel provider cancelled their holiday. 
They received a full refund of their holiday costs. Mrs T got in touch with the broker on 9 
June 2020 to ask it to cancel the policy. Mr and Mrs T wanted a pro-rata cash refund of the
premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs T a cash refund. It offered them a 20% discount voucher 
which could be put towards the following options:
A 15 month annual travel insurance policy for the price of 12 months;
A deferred annual travel insurance policy, which could be started at any time 
within 12 months of buying the policy;
A UK-only annual travel insurance policy (with the potential to upgrade the cover 
at a later date).
Great Lakes didnt take the discount itd applied to the policy into account when it calculated 
the refund.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had calculated its offer fairly. He set out the details
of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case.
He also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it
covered during that time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 5 
September 2019 and it had covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs T a pro-rata credit voucher. But he recommended 
that Great Lakes should recalculate Mr and Mrs Ts offer by using the actual price theyd 
paid for the policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the days that 
werent used. He didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive though. So he 
didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs T a cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators opinion. It recalculated its credit voucher offer. It 
said its new refund offer was £169.71.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. Ive summarised their responses to the investigator. They said 
theyd had one holiday, which hadnt resulted in any claims. Theyd posed no risk to Great 
Lakes, because the country had been placed in lockdown. Great Lakes had taken their 
money for a policy which was of no use to them. Offering a credit voucher means that Mr 
and Mrs T will need to buy a new policy from the broker and so itll benefit from the situation. 
Mr and Mrs T wont be able to shop around for a good price. Theres no guarantee that when 
they come to buy a new policy, Great Lakes will agree to cover Mr Ts existing medical 
conditions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I think Great Lakes current offer
is fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical
conditions.
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs T.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended (or if 
theyve travelled). In this case, Mr and Mrs Ts cooling-off period ended on 18 September 
2019. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 9 June 2020. This was clearly outside of the 14-
day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion 
and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this policy term most 
likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  such as 
bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I dont think the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts contract with Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of 
premiums.But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great
Lakes offer of a credit voucher for the unused portion of Mr and Mrs Ts policy is fair and 
reasonable. 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the policy for a 366-day period if the policy hadnt 
been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 88 days of cover, after the 
policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs T 
making a claim after that point.
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price Mr
and Mrs T paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by the number of 
days it wasnt on risk. Im satisfied that this now leads to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of
this case. I say that because while I appreciate Mr and Mrs T do have medical conditions, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest they wont be in a position to travel at all in the future. 
I understand theyre worried about whether Great Lakes will continue to offer to insure Mr Ts 
medical conditions in the future, but this would be something for Great Lakes to assess at 
the relevant time. And I dont find that it means Mr and Mrs T wont be able to use the 
voucher. I accept that travel plans remain uncertain, but overall, I think its likely that they 
may be in a position to travel before the voucher expires. 
Overall, this means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed in my
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums and Im
satisfied its current offer is fair.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is Great Lakes offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the refund due to Mr and Mrs T (to be paid by
way of a credit voucher) dividing the actual price Mr and Mrs T paid for the policy by the total 
cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman