DRN-2116901
The complaint
Mr Hs unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited have increased the cost of the salvage 
for his car, when claiming under his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen in October 2018. Admiral offered a settlement figure which Mr H didnt 
accept and asked our service to look into the complaint. This was handled in a separate 
decision. In this separate decision we decided a higher settlement figure for the value of the 
car was fair. Mr H accepted this, so Admiral paid the higher figure.
While Mr Hs claim was going on, his car was recovered, and after itd been written off he 
decided he wanted to keep the car. If a car is written off, then effectively it becomes the 
property of the insurer, but its possible to buy the car back  and this is known as salvage. 
This is what Mr H did, and he agreed a price for this in doing so. He says he wasnt made 
aware they could increase the price hed be asked to pay for the salvage. And having 
thought about it more, he wouldnt have paid the increased price Admiral are now asking him 
to pay after our previous decision increasing the value of the car.
Following this Mr H raised a new complaint saying Admiral had increased the cost of the 
salvage of his car after hed accepted our decision.
Admiral said wed told them to settle on the basis the figure was £40,925. So, because they 
werent asked to issue a payment for that figure itself, then the claim terms still apply. And, 
when the overall settlement for a claim increases, so does the cost of the salvage because 
its calculated as a percentage of the claim. This meant they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong, and wouldnt be making any payments to Mr H.
Mr H asked us to look into things, and one of our investigators did so. He asked Admiral to 
provide evidence Mr H had been told the salvage was based on a percentage of the overall 
cost. Admiral said they hadnt told Mr H this. But as Admiral were aware there was a dispute 
about the valuation and hadnt told Mr H about the salvage potentially increasing, our 
investigator felt he shouldnt be charged more for the salvage than hed previously paid.
Mr H accepted this outcome, but Admiral didnt. They said theyd been told in the previous 
decision to settle the claim, rather than making a direct payment. So, by saying settle the 
claim, this meant the settlement was still subject to the terms and conditions of the claim  
which say the salvage costs are based on a percentage of the overall claim value.
Our investigator said the ongoing claim about the valuation doesnt alter the terms, but it 
does mean understanding how the cost of the salvage might change was important for Mr H. 
And as they didnt tell him about it changing, theyve denied him the ability to make an 
informed choice about whether to pay the costs or not. Admiral still didnt agree, so because 
of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do agree with Admiral that generally the cost of the salvage is usually calculated as a 
percentage of the overall value of the total loss claim. But, that isnt really the point in this 
case. The key issue here is whether its fair for Admiral to charge Mr H more for the salvage 
now.
Its been more than a year since Mr H agreed to pay for the salvage. He was quoted an 
exact price and made his decision on that exact price. 
Admiral have had lots of opportunities to tell Mr H they might increase the cost of the 
salvage  either directly, or by replying to our service when corresponding about the 
previous claim which could have been done before our previous final decision was issued. 
They did neither of these things.
Mr H himself has said if hed knew how much extra itd have cost for the salvage, then he 
may not have bought the car. Given he wasnt told the full and correct information then, as 
Admiral have said this is standard practice in the industry, it seems hes not been able to 
make an informed choice. I wouldnt have expected Mr H to know, Id have expected Admiral 
to have told him.
In addition, beyond the increase in price of the valuation, Ive not seen anything to justify the 
increase in the salvage.
So, for all these reasons, I think its appropriate to uphold this complaint, and for Mr H to be 
repaid the remaining amount from his earlier claim. And, as this amount should already have 
been paid, interest on this figure too.  
Putting things right
Admiral need to:
Pay Mr H the amount of £1,130.50 that they deducted for the increased amount of 
the salvage
Add simple interest of 8% a year from the date of the claim, to the date of the 
settlement* 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from the interest payment
referred to above. Admiral must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve
deducted if he asks them for one.
My final decision
It follows I order Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting 
things right section above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman