DRN-2982790
The complaint
Mr O complains that an account he held with Nationwide Building Society continued to show 
on its systems despite being closed. 
What happened
Mr O called Nationwide in March 2021 to discuss one of his accounts. During the call he 
discovered that a different account, which had closed more than 15 years ago, was still 
showing on Nationwides systems. Mr O said hed had a bad accident around that time, and 
hed asked if the account could be kept open because hed been unable to keep up with his 
repayments while he was injured. He said he was told it would be closed. He didnt 
understand why the account was still showing and complained to Nationwide. 
In its final response Nationwide apologised that the account was still showing on its systems. 
It said the account had been sold to a third party and was no longer with Nationwide, but that 
due to an internal error the account was still showing on its system. By way of apology it 
credited Mr Os account with £15 compensation. Mr O wasnt satisfied with this response 
and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator concluded Nationwide had provided a reasonable explanation for why the 
account was still showing on its system, but that the account wasnt accessible for member 
use and was closed. Mr O asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He believed he 
should get more compensation for the stress this had caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, but having done so I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything further. 
I do understand that it was confusing for Mr O to discover his old account was still on file. 
And he rightly deserves to know why this was the case. Nationwide told this service that Mr 
Os account defaulted and was sold to a third-party debt collection agency (DCA). It said 
when this happens the account is open on its own system to help deal with any queries it 
gets from the DCA. Nationwide said the account was not open for member use. It went on to 
say it made no error in leaving the account open on its systems and it was not visible to Mr 
O on any online banking. Nationwide said it paid £15 compensation to Mr O as it recognised 
it had caused confusion when one of its staff asked which account Mr O wanted to discuss. 
Nationwide said it had used its discretion to close it on its systems as more than six years 
had passed since the time of the default.
In addition, Nationwide further clarified its position by saying:
For the avoidance of confusion this does not mean to say Nationwide is stating the 
debt is barred by statute and no further action will be taken, as Nationwide no longer 
own the account and it is not our place to comment on this.
While I can see how this situation will have caused confusion for Mr O, Im satisfied that the 
explanation Nationwide provided is fair and reasonable and that it hasnt done anything 
wrong. It credited Mr Os account with £15 in recognition of the confusion this caused which I 
also think is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman