DRN-4079266
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Motor Finance, provided 
him with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr W took out a finance agreement with Close Brothers, for a used car. After experiencing a 
number of issues with it, he told Close Brothers hed like to reject the car  and it agreed. 
However, while this was being arranged with the dealership, the car was subject to a serious 
arson attack.
Close Brothers said that it would no longer accept a rejection. Instead, it said Mr W should 
contact his insurer, for it to settle the agreement. Unfortunately though, this couldnt happen, 
as the car wasnt insured. Close Brothers refunded Mr W the four repayments hed made 
under the agreement, but said it couldnt do anything further.
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. She thought it was reasonable of Close Brothers to no 
longer accept a rejection, as Mr W could no longer return the car. She also thought it fair that 
hed been refunded the four repayments. But she also thought Close Brothers should pay Mr 
W £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W disagreed, and feels that £250 is a very low sum, given what hes been through as a 
result of having a car which was of unsatisfactory quality.
His complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Therefore, it was quite right of 
Close Brothers to accept the rejection of the car  and it was in the process of arranging this. 
However, because of the arson attack, there was no longer a car for Mr W to reject. So, I 
agree with Close Brothers that the appropriate course of action - at that point - was for Mr W 
to contact his insurer. Mr W has explained that the car wasnt insured, as he was also having 
to pay insurance for another car. Although I sympathise with this, it was still his responsibility 
to insure the car, until it was collected. And I cant see that Close Brothers was delaying in 
arranging this.
I can see that Close Brothers has refunded the four repayments Mr W made, and I agree 
that was fair, given his limited use of the car. But, like our investigator, I think it fair that Mr W 
be paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered. I think £250 is a 
significant sum, and Im mindful that Close Brothers responded to Mr Ws concerns about 
the cars quality and proposed a fair resolution. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Close Brothers should pay Mr W £250 compensation.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require Close Brothers Limited, trading 
as Close Motor Finance, to pay Mr W £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman