DRN-3780734
The complaint
Mr C complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) voided his policy unfairly.
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his buildings insurance for water ingress following storm damage. 
On inspection, QIC noted that Mr C had a six-bedroom property, but his policy stated there 
were five bedrooms. QIC told Mr C that it was voiding his policy for misrepresentation 
because it would never have offered a policy for a six-bedroom house.
Mr C initially said he mustve made a mistake when he bought the policy through a 
comparison site. He said he bought the four-bedroom house and then had the loft converted 
to add two further bedrooms, and it had always been that way.
In light of this, QIC said it would class Mr Cs misrepresentation as careless and void his 
policy, treating it as if it had never existed. QIC confirmed it would refund the premiums.
Mr C was unhappy with this and said hed cancel the policy instead. However, QIC said 
there was no longer a policy to cancel.
Mr C complained to QIC because he didnt think it had treated him fairly by voiding his 
policy. He also said that his house actually had just five bedrooms. QIC maintained its 
position, so Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said the evidence supported QICs view and she agreed that it had acted in 
line with the relevant industry rules. Our investigator also looked at Mr Cs concerns about 
the difficulty he may experience obtaining insurance in the future, and his view that QIC 
shouldve let him cancel the policy. However, our investigator said the evidence showed the 
policy voidance was already being considered, so it wouldnt have been possible to cancel a 
policy that didnt exist.
Mr C didnt agree. He repeated his view that the property had only five bedrooms and 
disputed QICs classification of his rooms. He said QIC shouldnt be able to determine the 
use of a room, and he was right to say he had five bedrooms because the other room was 
used as a study. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr C will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
The issue is that Mr C doesnt think it was fair that QIC voided his policy for careless 
misrepresentation and he wants QIC to accept his cancellation request instead.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said he had a five-bedroom house. 
Ive looked at the question asked on the comparison site, which was:
How many bedrooms does the property have?
Clicking on the help text next to the question provided the following information:
Please include rooms that were originally designed as bedrooms, even if theyre now 
used for a different purpose (e.g. converted to a study).
Mr C answered, five.
From the comparison site, Mr C clicked through to insurers site where he was asked to 
check details, including:
How many bedrooms does your property have?
Mr C answered confirming his property had five bedrooms.
Following his purchase of the policy, QIC sent Mr C access to his policy documents, which 
Ive looked at. They explained the importance of providing accurate information, and the 
importance of contacting QIC if any information was incorrect. The documents also set out 
the consequences of not providing accurate information. 
When investigating the claim, QICs surveyor identified that the house had six bedrooms. 
Further investigation of marketing literature revealed a floor plan, also showing the house 
had six bedrooms. When QIC asked Mr C about this, he said he mustve made a mistake 
and there had always been six bedrooms since the loft conversion.
Based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that QIC fairly concluded that Mr C didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
So, Ive gone on to look at whether it made a difference to the policy offered. QIC provided 
evidence of its underwriting criteria which tells me that if Mr C had declared he had six 
bedrooms, it wouldnt have offered a policy at all. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr Cs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one  that is, QIC wouldve done something different if 
hed answered the question correctly.QIC decided to treat Mr Cs misrepresentation as careless. As thats the most favourable 
outcome for him, I see no reason to disagree with QICs classification. 
As Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA. Where QIC wouldnt have offered a policy 
at all if it had the correct information, CIDRA says it can avoid the policy from the point of the 
misrepresentation  in this case the start of the policy  return the premiums, and treat the 
policy as if it never existed and not deal with any claims.
Im satisfied that QIC was entitled to avoid Mr Cs policy in line with CIDRA which means, in 
effect, his policy never existed. So, theres no policy for QIC to consider Mr Cs claim under.
Overall, Im satisfied that by relying on CIDRAs and our long-standing approach, QICs 
decision to void the policy was fair and reasonable. Im also satisfied, then, that Mr C didnt 
have a policy to cancel. So, I dont think QIC did anything wrong by refusing to accept his 
cancellation request.
As a final point, Ill address Mr Cs disagreement about the classification of a bedroom. I 
understand that he thinks its fairer to declare the room by the manner in which its used. He 
uses one bedroom as a study, so he doesnt think he was wrong to say he had five 
bedrooms. However, as I mentioned earlier, a bedroom is defined when buying the policy - 
and I think the definition is clear. So, Mr C could reasonably have been expected to say he 
had six bedrooms, as documented on the floor plan of his home and as he himself 
described.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman