DRN-3140251
The complaint
Mr R and Ms S complain that U K Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Insurance, (UKI) 
caused them problems when setting up their home insurance policy.
Mr R has dealt with things throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points.
Mr R used a price comparison website to find a quote for home insurance. He was 
transferred to UKIs website to complete the purchase.
He called UKI to say that the payment button on its website wouldnt work and hed 
received an error message. UKI tried to take payment over the phone but it was 
unsuccessful. Mr R tried with a second card but that was also unsuccessful. He said 
hed get in touch with his bank about it.
He called UKI back. He said his bank had resolved the problem. This time the 
payment was successful, and the policy was setup.
Mr R complained about the experience hed had setting up the policy. He said the 
problems with UKIs website meant he had to pay over the phone. And because 
multiple payments had been attempted, this had triggered a fraud alert with his bank, 
blocking his cards until hed spoken to them to explain the situation. All in all, this had 
taken up more time than it should have done. He asked for £750 compensation to 
recognise that.
UKI said it hadnt caused the problem. It thought the banks security protocols were 
responsible. But it apologised for the difficulties setting up the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend UKI take any further action. She wasnt 
persuaded the evidence showed UKI was responsible for what had happened. And 
even if it had been, she didnt think the impact on Mr R went beyond the level of 
frustration and annoyance generally encountered in everyday life.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R believes the problem with the payment button began the chain of events which he 
considers led his bank to block his cards until he confirmed the payment attempts were 
genuine.
UKI is unsure what caused the problem with the payment button. My understanding of 
Mr Rs experience is that the payment button didnt work for him, so he was unable to 
complete the payment process. When he called UKI, a payment attempt with the same card 
was unsuccessful.
Mr R then received an alert from his bank to let him know that a payment worth over £100 
had been made. Mr R recalled setting his bank account to notify him of any card payments 
made over £100, which this was, but not to block them.
After he spoke to his bank, he told UKI the bank said it was a random fraud thing and its 
been sorted now. Payment was then successful. Mr R later told our investigator the bank 
had said that multiple payment attempts had prompted a fraud alert, blocking the cards.
I havent seen anything directly from the bank to explain what caused the card to become 
blocked. So, Ive thought about the circumstances and whether the available evidence 
shows UKI was likely responsible for the card problems.
Its possible that a problem with the website led to Mr R attempting more than one similar 
payment in quick succession  and that may have triggered a fraud alert with his bank. 
Although its unclear whether the problem with the payment button prevented a payment 
attempt altogether. And if this was the case, the payment attempts made on the phone 
would have been the only ones.
It also seems possible the settings on Mr Rs card may have caused the alert. Although its 
unclear whether this amounted to a fraud alert  or simply a notification to him about the use 
of his card.
Theres reference to the bank labelling the problem a random fraud thing, which might 
mean the block was part of the banks routine security procedures.
Taking into account the evidence provided, whilst its possible UKIs website issue led to the 
card problems, Im not persuaded the available information shows thats whats likely to have 
happened.
Even if I took the view UKI was likely to be responsible for the problem, or at least 
contributed to it, Ive thought about the impact that had on Mr R.
Ive listened to the calls he had with UKI and I recognise he had a separate call with his bank 
too. Much of the call time with UKI was about other things  for example, which policy he 
would like to take out, how to access his policy online, when and if policy documents would 
be sent by post. And the call times were relatively short.
So, whilst it took more time than Mr R would have spent had the online payment been 
successful, I dont think it was significantly more. Its likely it caused him some minimal, brief 
frustration beyond what he expected in order to make the payment and get his policy setup. 
In these circumstances, Im satisfied UKIs apology was reasonable and proportionate to any 
inconvenience it caused.
Given the uncertainty about what caused the problem, and UKIs apology for any part it 
played in the frustration caused to Mr R, I dont think UKI needs to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman