DRN-3618605
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Monzo Bank PLC (Monzo) have unfairly declined to refund over 
£10,000 she lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S authorised the disputed payments she made to 
Jubiter.com and Koinal using her Monzo debit card (where her funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammers from her crypto wallets). The payments 
were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by Monzo, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mrs S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the first four payments made by Mrs S, I dont think these were 
enough in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Monzo, as they were not 
large in amount (they were all under £1,000). The first two payments had also been 
made on separate days. However, by the time she came to make the fifth payment of 
£859.44 on 22 June 2020, it then became the third such payment being made to the 
same payee in quick succession on the same day. I appreciate there was little by 
way of account activity to compare this sort of activity to. But Monzo ought 
reasonably to have been aware at the time that successive payments being made to 
the same payee can often be indicative of fraudulent activity, so I think the bank 
ought to have intervened in the third payment of £859.44 Mrs S made on 22 June 
2020. 
However, even if Monzo had intervened at this point and asked further questions 
about the nature of the payments Mrs S was making, Im not persuaded it would 
have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately prevented the loss.
Mrs S has said herself that she made the purchase through a reputable and well-
established platform (i.e. Jubiter and Koinal) and had no reason to suspect the 
merchant was fraudulent at the time. She said she had been looking to invest in 
Bitcoin, and found the broker 4EX7 online, who she said were extremely 
professional. She said they sent her a contract with terms and conditions, which 
reassured her that it was all legitimate, and that she was reassured at each stage of 
the process by the broker.
I appreciate than an FCA warning has since been issued about 4EX7. But this had 
not been published until 28 August 2020, which was after the point I think Monzo 
ought to have intervened on 22 June 2020. There was very little information available 
about the broker online at this point, and there doesnt appear to have been any 
other warnings published by regulators in other jurisdictions; the first warning to 
appear about the merchant was that published by the FCA in August 2020. So, as 
well as believing the merchant was genuine for the reasons set out above, Mrs S 
also wouldnt have found any warnings about the broker if the bank had warned her 
and advised that she carry out further checks. 
So, even if Monzo had intervened and provided Mrs S with a scam warning, Im not 
persuaded that any further checks she could have carried out online would have 
revealed that she was likely being scammed. Mrs S thought the brokers were 
professional and had been reassured by what they had told her. She also hadnt 
been contacted out of the blue by the broker (which is a common sign of an 
investment scam) and had sought them out herself. So, there wouldnt have been 
anything significant to alert her to the fact that she was being scammed at the time. 
Therefore, I dont think Monzos failure to intervene can reasonably be considered as 
the proximate cause of Mrs Ss loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely she 
would have proceeded to make the transactions irrespective of any intervention by 
the bank.
I appreciate that Mrs S made one payment in October 2020 after the FCA warning 
about 4EX7 had been published. But she was not paying the broker directly; she was 
paying a legitimate cryptocurrency platform, who by this time had been established 
as a regular payee on Mrs Ss account. So, I wouldnt have expected Monzo to have 
intervened in any of the later payments Mrs S made as a result. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mrs S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, as Ive previously 
mentioned, Mrs S used her debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she wouldnt 
be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the 
companies she paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Monzo were under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback for Mrs S either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Monzo liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jack FerrisOmbudsman