DRN-2129311
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs P complain about failures by Lapithus Servicing LLP, in administering their 
mortgage account on behalf of Webb Resolutions Limited. They say these failures left them 
with a shortfall debt to pay. Mr M has dealt with the complaint throughout. He asks that hes 
no longer pursued for the debt.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs P took out a joint mortgage in 2007 with another lender. The account was 
transferred to Webb in 2008. The account fell into arrears and the property was taken into 
possession and sold in 2010. There was a shortfall of about £58,000. Webb sold the shortfall 
debt to a debt management company in 2016.
Mr M says that Webb or Lapithus failed to claim against a mortgage indemnity guarantee 
(MIG) policy and that it didnt contact him about paying the shortfall until 2017.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the MIG 
was for the benefit of the lender, not the borrower. And the MIG hadnt been transferred to 
Webb, so Lapithus couldnt have made a claim under the policy.
Lapithus said it didnt have an address for Mr M and its attempts to contact him between 
2010 and 2016 were unsuccessful. The investigator said Lapithus made reasonable efforts 
to contact Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said if the MIG wasnt transferred with his mortgage, this meant his 
mortgage wasnt transferred on the same terms. Mr M said if the MIG wasnt transferable, 
Webb should have bought a new policy. He said the MIG policy was there to be claimed 
against if needed and its unfair he can be pursued for the shortfall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
This mortgage was originally owned by another lender. It was sold to Webb in 2008. The 
property was repossessed with a shortfall in 2010. Webb sold the shortfall debt in 2016.
I cant consider the actions of the original lender here, or the actions of the debt 
management business in trying to collect the shortfall debt after 2016. This complaint is 
about what happened while the loan was owned by Webb. 
This is a regulated mortgage contract. A regulated mortgage contract should generally be 
owned by a regulated firm. Webb isnt a regulated firm, and never has been. However, 
unregulated firms are allowed to own regulated mortgages, as long as they appoint a 
regulated administrator to manage the loan on their behalf. Webb appointed Lapithus.
Although Lapithus was acting as Webbs agent in managing the debt, in doing so it was also 
carrying out the regulated activity of administering a regulated mortgage contract in its own 
right. This complaint is therefore against Lapithus  but only concerns the period during 
which it was managing the loan, between 2008 and 2016.
Mr Ms complaint about the MIG
A mortgage indemnity guarantee or higher lending charge is a fee charged by a mortgage 
lender, where the amount borrowed exceeds a given percentage of the value of the property. 
This is to protect the lender from the additional risk in lending at a higher loan to value.
Mr M and Mrs Ps original lender applied a higher lending charge. The mortgage conditions 
said it applied the charge when it agreed to lend more than its normal policy to lend. 
A lender might use the higher lending charge to buy an insurance policy, but it doesnt have 
to do so. Lapithus says no MIG policy was transferred by the original lender. I havent seen 
evidence of any restriction on the loan being transferred without a MIG policy, or any 
requirement for a new MIG policy to be taken out after the transfer. 
I dont think it was unfair for the loan to be transferred to Webb without the MIG, or that 
Webb or Lapithus should have taken out an insurance policy of some sort. I dont think 
Lapithis had to notify Mr M that he was no longer covered by the MIG for any shortfall after 
the transfer  he never was covered for this. The higher lending charge was for the benefit of 
the original lender: it wasnt for the benefit of Mr M and Mrs P and it offered no protection to 
them.
Contact about the shortfall debt
Mr M has said how upsetting it was to be contacted in 2017 about the shortfall. But this 
contact was made by a different business and not something I can consider here.
What I can consider is whether Lapithus made reasonable efforts to contact Mr M between 
2010, when his property was taken onto possession, and 2016 when it sold the debt.
Lapithus says it didnt have an address for Mr M in 2010. So it couldnt send a letter to him to 
confirm the shortfall balance and ask about his plans to pay the debt. It says it was able to 
contact Mrs P, but she didnt provide an address for Mr M.
Lapithus instructed trace agents in 2011 to find potential addresses for Mr M. It sent a letter 
to the address it found and provided a copy to us. The letter set out the shortfall and said it 
intended to try to recover it. Lapithus says it also tried to contact Mr M by telephone to 
discuss the shortfall, without success, and appointed a debt recovery business to recover 
the shortfall in 2012. It assigned the debt to another business in 2016.
Its unfortunate that Lapithus was unable to get in contact with Mr M. But I think, in the 
circumstances, it made reasonable efforts to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman