DRN-2370605
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from TSB Bank Plc after he opened a 
current account.
What happened
On 24 March 2020 Mr G opened a Classic Plus current account with TSB. He opened 
his account via a cashback website, which Ill refer to here as Q.
As an incentive for opening his account Mr G was expecting to receive an incentive 
payment of £50. He said he met the conditions required at the time of opening his account. 
So, he was entitled to be paid the cashback reward, which he said was due by 8 June 
2020.
By 8 June 2020 Mr G still hadnt received his cashback incentive. So, he complained to 
TSB. He also raised enquiries with Q about the whereabouts of his reward.
On 11 June 2020 Q emailed Mr G to confirm that eligibility for the cashback reward is 
checked 120 days after the account opening account had been completed. And it 
explained it was still awaiting the cashback payment from TSB. It also informed him that 
his cashback was proceeding as expected and the indicated payment date of 8 June 2020 
was an estimated date only.
On 12 June 2020 TSB issued its final response to Mr Gs complaint. In its correspondence 
it didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said it hadnt made a mistake in how it had dealt with 
the process of authorising the incentive payment Mr G was due. And it advised him to 
contact Q regarding his missing cashback.
On 27 June 2020 Mr G referred his complaint to our service. By this point he said his 
cashback had been paid on 14 August 2020. But he was unhappy with the length of time 
it had taken to receive that payment. And he stated he wasnt happy with how TSB had 
dealt with his complaint.
Mr Gs complaint was reviewed by an investigator at our service. But they didnt 
recommend upholding it. They didnt think TSB had made an error in how it had processed, 
or paid, Mr Gs cashback reward. And they didnt think it needed to do anything else to 
resolve his complaint. TSB accept our investigators view of this complaint, but Mr G didnt. 
As Mr G has asked to appeal, Ive been passed his complaint to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr G experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. 
My role is to assess whether I think TSB made a mistake, or treated Mr G unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right.
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr G and TSB, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
I can see that Mr G has raised some concerns about the adequacy of our investigators 
investigation into his complaint. But Im satisfied our investigator has requested all the 
evidence Id have expected them to ask for from both Mr G and TSB. Ive considered all of 
that information afresh before making a final decision. And Im satisfied our investigator 
has looked into this matter properly. I say this because Ive reached substantially the 
same conclusions as they did for much the same reasons.
Mr G has complained that TSB delayed paying his cashback incentive. He says he was 
told hed receive his payment by 8 June 2020. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded Mr G was told his cashback would be definitely paid by 8 June 2020. 
Indeed, the documentation Ive had sight of suggests that date was an estimate only.
I can see that Q informed Mr G that TSB would check whether he was eligible to receive 
the cashback incentive 120 days following the completion of the account opening process. 
TSB accepts this timeframe is correct  its documentation refers to the same timeline.
Ive seen evidence that shows Mr Gs eligibility was checked on 1 July 2020 and 
confirmed 12 days later. This was 111 days after he opened his account. So, Im satisfied 
TSB were within its 120 day deadline. While this may not have been fast enough for Mr G 
I cant fairly conclude that TSB made an error in how it checked his eligibility for the 
cashback incentive.
Ive seen a business document from TSB that shows it would normally pay the cashback to 
eligible customers within 150 days. Here, Mr G told our investigator his cashback was paid 
on 14 August 2020. This was 143 days after he opened his account. As this was within the 
timescale TSB sets for incentive payments, I cant say it made a mistake in the time it took 
to pay Mr G his cashback reward.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied TSB has followed its policies on 
approving and paying cashback incentives. It hasnt made any errors in how it dealt with 
and processed Mr Gs cashback incentive. I therefore wont be asking it to do anything 
further.
Finally, I can see Mr G has raised concerns about how TSB dealt with his complaint about 
what happened. However, as our investigator has explained, we dont have the power to 
look at how financial businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated 
activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think TSB hadnt 
done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of his complaint or 
make an award.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with TSB informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
G any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.
Julie Robertson
 
Ombudsman