DRN-2499863
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reported 
his address incorrectly to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) which then prevented him 
doing a balance transfer and leading to him having to pay a higher rate of interest.
What happened
On 9 February 2020 Mr C updated his address with Barclaycard. The first line of his address 
was the number of the floor of his flat together with the property number and road name. The 
remainder of his address, being the town and postcode, were entered onto different lines. 
On 21 April Mr C attempted a balance transfer from his Barclaycard account to third party 
but it was declined. 
When Mr C looked into it, a CRA told him that the address reported for his Barclaycard 
account was not accurate because although the road, town and postcode were correct, the 
number of the floor of his flat was absent and the property number was wrong. The CRA 
said it couldnt amend its record because Barclaycard hadnt authorised such a change.
Barclaycard said it correctly reported Mr Cs address to the CRAs but did try to assist Mr C 
after it had been notified of the problem by changing the first line of the address to record 
just the number of the floor of his flat with the rest of the address appearing on different 
lines. Barclaycard suggested that the CRA had misinterpreted the address it originally 
provided, but confirmed, nevertheless that it had provided the full and correct address to the 
CRA. It said it couldnt be responsible for how the CRAs displayed or interpreted the data it 
provided, and Mr Cs address was recorded correctly on Barclaycards system and had been 
since it had been updated in February. It also clarified that the first time they reported the 
change of address to the CRAs was at the end of March as they report their data a month 
behind.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclaycards final response and so approached this service to see 
if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclaycard hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr C didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I have to determine is whether Barclaycard has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here, and I dont think it has and I shall explain why. There is a clear difference of opinion 
between Barclaycard and Mr C and Ive taken account of both sides views when considering 
whether Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably. Ive also carefully considered the 
documentary evidence which I shall comment on below. 
Barclaycard have provided their system notes to show that Mr C reported his change of 
address to them and in turn they recorded and changed it correctly. That is corroborated by 
the correct address appearing on his account statements from February. So, Im satisfied 
that there was no error at this stage by Barclaycard in recording Mr Cs address onto its 
systems, since it was correctly reproduced onto his statements. 
Barclaycard have also provided screenshots of the information it provided to the CRAs and 
that shows the correct address. This is the only evidence of what Barclaycard sent to the 
CRAs and so I must accept that what was sent was in fact correct.
Mr C has also provided evidence in the form of screenshots. One shows the wrong address 
recorded on a credit report from a CRA on 28 February. This date is after Mr C updated 
Barclaycard but before it reported his change of address. This doesnt assist me in 
determining whether there was any fault on Barclaycards part.
The second screenshot of his credit report shows the correct address. This is undated but 
was sent with a covering letter which is dated after the CRAs were updated by Barclaycard. 
This also confirms that Barclaycard reported the address correctly.
The balance transfer was attempted on 21 April which is after Barclaycard reported the 
address change to the CRAs. Mr C also provides an email from another card provider in 
response to his enquiry about why the balance transfer failed. Mr C says that he was told the 
failure was due to his address being incorrect, but this email simply says that the balance 
transfer was unsuccessful. Mr C provided a further email from the card provider which added 
a little more by way of explanation and stated, your attempt to make a balance transfer was 
declined due to verification failed.
So, although Mr C says he was told on the telephone that the balance transfer failed 
because of an incorrect address, that is not what the third-party card provider actually 
confirmed. The expression verification failed could be something not related to an address. 
But this is really a side issue, because the evidence that I have seen clearly demonstrates 
that Barclaycard did not report an incorrect address to the CRAs and so the failed 
verification cant be as a result of Barclaycards reporting since they reported the correct 
address. 
So, although Mr C will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclaycard 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman