DRN-2576903
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) declined her claim for a
medical condition which AXA say was pre-existing.
What happened
Mrs C has a medical insurance policy with AXA which she took out in October 2017. She
completed an application form where she was asked a series of questions, including her 
medical history. The policy was underwritten, and the terms were accepted based on the 
answers Mrs C provided. Cover excluded two medical problems Mrs C had disclosed.
In March 2019, Mrs C contacted AXA to make a claim for depression and which she said 
had been ongoing for three to four months. AXA approved the claim and paid for initial 
consultations she received from a psychiatrist. 
In April 2019, Mrs C was referred to a psychologist and ten sessions were to be covered for 
up to six months. Around the same time, the psychiatrist sent AXA a letter. The letter stated 
Mrs C suffered a lifelong, recurrent Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD), had longstanding 
difficulties with anxiety and her symptoms had gathered momentum over the past year. At 
this point, AXA withdrew cover as it believed the letter confirmed Mrs C had a pre-existing 
condition relating to psychiatric problems and therefore excluded Mrs Cs treatment with the 
psychologist.
Mrs C complained to AXA and it issued a final response. It said Mrs C answered a series of
questions about her health. AXA said when Mrs C applied for the policy, she was asked
whether she or any other person included on the policy had any medical conditions, disability
or health problem, whether or not a doctor had been consulted, for example gynaecological
or menstrual problems, complications of pregnancy, signs or symptoms of varicose veins,
back trouble, joint disorders, joint replacements, foot problems, indigestion or bowel
problems, abdominal pain, skin problems, allergies, anxiety, depression or other psychiatric
problems, trouble with heart.etc. AXA also asked if there was any other information which 
Mrs C should, in good faith, disclose. Mrs C disclosed two conditions in her application and
hadnt said anything about anxiety or depression.
AXA also said as it had now been made aware of Mrs Cs medical history, it was correct to 
exclude cover for the psychiatric problems.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mrs C referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator
looked into it and said there was no evidence to suggest Mrs C had been diagnosed with
clinical depression or anxiety related disorders. He therefore thought she wouldnt have
known or, would reasonably have been aware, she had such a condition. He thought she
answered the question accurately  that she wasnt suffering from anxiety or depression at
the time of taking out the policy. Our investigator referred to the psychiatrists letter which
said her symptoms had gathered momentum over the last year and it was only when she
sought help that she was diagnosed with anxiety and depression. Our investigator upheld
the complaint and recommended AXA accept and pay Mrs Cs claim and remove the
exclusion it had placed on the policy.
AXA didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to an
ombudsman to make a decision. So, the complaint was passed to me. AXA said in 
summary:
The psychiatrists clinic letter is the most reliable evidence here; it outlines a long
history of symptoms. It also states Mrs C had counselling sessions, which ended in
2017. It also states symptoms were both lifelong and longstanding. The letter
demonstrates Mrs Cs awareness that something was wrong;
The letter includes information, which must have come from Mrs C during the
consultation, about her lifelong anxiety problems. Its reasonable to expect Mrs C to
have brought this to AXAs attention when answering the questions in the application
form. The psychiatrist also states Mrs C suffered from a longstanding, fluctuating
irritable bowel syndrome and had longstanding difficulties with insomnia. These
symptoms, which the psychiatrist notes, are related to GAD and were not brought to
AXAs attention. Both should reasonably have been declared on the application form,
which states at the top of section four that if you have any doubts whether
something may influence how we deal with your application you should include it as
your policy may be invalid entirely if you fail to disclose any material facts.; and
AXA authorised Mrs Cs claim in good faith based on the information she provided,
which was a 3-4-month history of symptoms. However, the clinic letter provided a
substantially longer history that had gathered momentum over the last year.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 26 January 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether AXA declined the claim in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy and whether that was fair and reasonable in Mrs Cs complaint.
The policy Mrs C took out was whats called a fully underwritten one. This means that she
had to provide details of her medical history, including any pre-existing conditions. The cover
was then worked out based on the information provided.
Ive looked at the policy booklet which defines a pre-existing condition as follows:
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
You have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before
the start of your cover, or
You have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your
cover whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
The relevant sections of the policy terms and conditions say:
What if you didnt tell us about a condition, symptom or treatment you knew
about when we asked?
Whichever form of underwriting you joined on, we may have asked you some
medical questions before agreeing your cover. We worked out your terms or your
subscription based on your answers. If you did not answer fully or accurately, even if
this was by accident, we may not cover treatment for the condition.And on page 34 of the policy booklet it states:
Providing us with information
Whenever we ask you to give us information, you will make sure that all the
information you give us is sufficiently true, accurate and complete for us to be able to
work out the risk we are considering. If we later discover that it is not, we can cancel
the plan or apply different terms of cover in line with the terms we would have applied
if the information had been presented to us fairly.
In considering the policy terms and conditions alone, it wouldnt be unreasonable that if
Mrs C hadnt made AXA aware of a medical condition (whether it was diagnosed or not), it
could decide not to cover the treatment if it later had been made aware of it. But Im also
looking at all the circumstances of the complaint and the evidence thats been made
available  not just the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs C did a self-referral to AXA and hadnt been to see her GP to discuss how she was
feeling. Theres nothing in the GP medical records to suggest shed raised her feeling of
anxiety or depression with the GP at all. The records span back over several years.
The consultations with a psychiatrist were approved and paid for by AXA due to the
information Mrs C had provided about her anxiety for the last 3-4 months.
The main evidence we have therefore is the clinic letter from the psychiatrist. This letter
comes from the consultations Mrs C had with a trained psychiatrist and the letter is
comprehensive. It includes points about her background, history of medical problems, her
lifestyle and relationships with family members. Based on the two consultations, the
psychiatrist, in his medical opinion, thought a referral to a psychologist would benefit Mrs C
covering six months of treatments of ten sessions. AXA said it no longer considered the
cover to be valid due to the information the psychiatrist provided and declined the referral for
ten sessions with a psychologist.
Ive taken some examples of what the psychiatrist wrote in his letter:
In essence (Mrs C) presented with a lifelong, recurrent Generalised Anxiety Disorder
(GAD) characterised by somatic and cognitive symptoms of anxiety with a distressing
sense of worry..
has lifelong anxious premorbid personality traits
has longstanding difficulties with anxiety, it appears symptoms gathered
momentum over the past year
has not had any formal intervention in regards to her recurrent GAD, although she
has had some intermittent sessions of counselling with the last episode in 2017.
Mrs C said she didnt declare the anxiety or depression as a pre-existing condition as its
poor to assume a mental condition has the same visible symptoms as a physical condition.
She said she wasnt aware that it was a condition and shed never been diagnosed and that
was why she sought help from a medical professional. I appreciate this and can understand
where shes coming from. But in this instance, it wasnt necessary to be diagnosed to make
AXA aware of the anxiety she was feeling. If she had the counselling sessions, it would be
reasonable to assume Mrs C would have made AXA aware of this when she completed the
medical questions. Im not persuaded she needed to be diagnosed with the medical
condition before needing to make AXA aware of it.
Our investigator telephoned the psychiatrist and Ive listened to this conversation. Thepurpose of the call was to seek clarification on using the word counselling in the letter and
to provide some context. The psychiatrist said he doesnt remember the consultations
clearly but if he uses the word counselling in his clinic letter, that would only have come
from Mrs C as he generally didnt use this word. He confirmed that Mrs C hadnt received
any formal intervention prior to this consultation.
In May 2019, the psychiatrist sent a second letter to AXA to request it to reconsider the
decision not to accept the claim. In this, he said Mrs Cs GAD hadnt been of any clinical
significance for the majority of her life although there was an episode several years ago as
documented in the previous clinic letter.
Ive carefully thought about the evidence thats available. The letter from the psychiatrist
provides a medical opinion of Mrs Cs condition and provides significant weight. The
psychiatrist has given detailed information and I cant see why he would include
counselling sessions if Mrs C hadnt told him herself. The letter also explains she has GAD
but that the anxiety issues were longstanding. He has said the issues were longterm/
longstanding throughout his letter.
While I appreciate Mrs C said she went to a lunch and learn session at work and that
constituted the counselling she had, that doesnt appear to be what she had told the
psychiatrist. On balance, I think it seems more plausible that she had counselling sessions
for anxiety or depression which were intermittent, and the last episode was in 2017. She
hadnt been to her GP at all to seek help and that shows on her medical records.
So, when she took out the policy, I think it would have been a reasonable expectation, at the
very least, for Mrs C to have made AXA aware of this when she completed the medical
questions. I understand that Mrs C hadnt been diagnosed with GAD at the time and she
might not have necessarily known what condition she suffered from until she went to see the
psychiatrist. But the fact that she had counselling sessions would have been enough to
include this in her answer to the medical questions. I think its also reasonable to think that
she suffered from anxiety and this was longstanding. Mrs C didnt make AXA aware and
therefore the terms of the policy didnt exclude this medical condition.
Having reviewed everything, on balance, I think its reasonable for Mrs C to have made AXA
aware of the anxiety she suffered from and any counselling she might have had. AXA could
have then assessed the risk based on that information. As such, based on the
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its incorrect of AXA to decline the claim for the
referral to a psychologist due to a pre-existing condition. Im satisfied the terms and 
conditions have been applied appropriately and Im satisfied Mrs C hasnt been treated 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Additionally, the terms also state if AXA later discovers a medical condition which it should
have been made aware of, it can cancel or apply different terms of cover, as if they had been
applied had the information been presented fairly at the time of taking out the policy. I dont
think this is inappropriate either.
I know that Mrs C will be disappointed with my intentions. However, overall, in all the
circumstances of this complaint, the letter from the psychiatrist is the most persuasive and
adds considerable weight to my decision. The information gathered during the consultations
provides a detailed version of events and is done independently. Its difficult for me to ignore
what Mrs C had told the psychiatrist.
AXA responded to my provisional decision and, in summary, said:The application form asked for details of the applicants medical history, including 
symptoms. It was reasonable for Mrs C to have declared her anxiety given it was a 
condition she had previously reached out for help with; and
The recent psychiatrist letter doesnt offer any new information and the letter of April 
2019 remains the most appropriate record of what happened.
Mrs C responded and sent a further letter from the psychiatrist. In summary she said she:
Has stated throughout that she didnt know she had anxiety or depression until she 
saw the psychiatrist or that IBS and insomnia were signs of GAD;
Doesnt recall the level of detail requested or a clear breakdown on what exactly was 
to be disclosed when she completed the application form;
Has been discriminated under the Equality Act 2010 for failure to make a decision 
based on inaccurate guidelines;
Had a lunch and learn session at work and not counselling  there seems to be a 
lack of understanding in the difference between the two; and
Feels the provisional decision is insensitive and disrespectful in saying she had 
counselling sessions when she hadnt.
Having received the further comments from both parties, I will now make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regards to AXAs comments, Ive already taken these into consideration in my 
provisional decision. So, theres nothing further I want to add.
Having reviewed Mrs Cs comments, for the most part, Ive also taken these into 
consideration. Ive therefore only provided additional comments to those which I think are 
relevant. 
I appreciate Mrs C might not be able to recall the level of detail asked of her in the 
application form. Given the length of time, thats understandable. However, as Ive said in my 
provisional decision, AXA provided a copy of the application form to show the question was 
asked in the detail required. Im satisfied therefore Mrs C had the opportunity to declare her 
symptoms or conditions before the policy was underwritten.
Mrs C has said shes been discriminated under the Equality Act 2010 because she failed to 
disclose the symptoms. But she says this was because AXA hadnt asked the medical 
questions clearly or at the level required. This wasnt a point Mrs C raised in her complaint to 
AXA so it would be inappropriate for me to make a finding on this. I would like to reiterate 
however theres nothing in the available evidence to suggest the question asked on the 
application form wasnt at the level required or wasnt clear.   
Mrs C says the provisional decision is insensitive and disrespectful. I understand why she 
might feel that way. However, my understanding from what the psychiatrist said to our 
investigator is that the word counselling would only have come from Mrs C. While hes 
since said he cant recall exactly what was said or there was a possibility Mrs C may have 
used this word, on balance, what he wrote in that first letter was more likely a more accurate 
representation of their consultation. Its not the case that I dont appreciate the difference 
between a lunch and learn session and a counselling session. But with all the available evidence, Im more persuaded Mrs C did have counselling as there was no other plausible 
explanation as to why the psychiatrist used the word counselling.
Overall, therefore, Im satisfied AXA declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy and, in doing so, it didnt treat Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I 
dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint against AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman