DRN-1672392
 
The complaint
Ms D says MYJAR Limited  trading as MYJAR - irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four loans MYJAR provided to Ms D between March and June 2016. 
Ms Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 10/03/2016 07/04/2016 1 £100.00 £122.40
2 09/04/2016 14/04/2016 1 £100.00 £128.00
3 16/04/2016 02/06/2016 3 £300.00 £158.05
4 02/06/2016 Outstanding 6 £550.00 £172.15
In our most recent assessment, the adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ds complaint and 
thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been given because from the information MYJAR had 
gathered about Ms D, it looked like she wasnt able to sustainably manage to make her 
repayments. MYJAR disagreed and said it believed Ms D had enough disposable income to 
manage her repayments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
In the most recent assessment, our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint about loans 1 
to 2. Ms D hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont 
be making any further findings on these loans because they no longer appear to be in 
dispute. 
From the information provided, I can see MYJAR did several checks on Ms D before it lent 
her loan 3. But from the information those checks showed, MYJAR ought to have also 
realised that Ms D wouldnt have been able to make her repayments for this loan sustainably 
without taking out more lending. I say this because the checks show that Ms D had a 
declared income of £1,200 and her declared total outgoings  before her instalment for     
loan 4  was £1,000. Once she had repaid her commitment to MYJAR, this would have left 
her with around £40 which wouldnt have been enough to cover for any emergencies or 
unforeseen eventualities.  Bearing in mind this loan was to be repaid over three monthly 
instalments, I dont think the lending was affordable to her. And there was a high chance she 
would have to borrow again to sustainably make her repayments. I think this was proven 
when she returned to borrow loan 4 the same day she had repaid loan 3.
So, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint about loans 3 and 4 and MYJAR should put things right.  
Putting things right
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt MYJAR should buy this back if MYJAR is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If MYJAR cant buy the debt back, then MYJAR should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms D towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
MYJAR has already refunded.
B) MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by Ms D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms D originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms D having made 
overpayments then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms D. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms D. MYJAR shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal MYJAR has already written-off.
E) MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file in relation 
to loan 3 and 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Ms D 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Im partially upholding Ms Ds complaint and MYJAR 
Limited should put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman