DRN-3957114
The complaint
Mrs D and Miss D complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc have unfairly refused to refund over 
£60,000 they lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mrs D and Miss D were approached by a scam investment broker 
after clicking on an advert. This broker, who I will call B, convinced them to purchase crypto 
currency on two crypto exchanges, which was then forwarded on to B. Mrs D and Miss D 
made the following payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 09/11/2021 Swissborg £1,000 £1,000
2 10/11/2021 Swissborg £1,000 £2,000
3 11/11/2021 Swissborg £200 £2,200
4 11/11/2021 Swissborg £2,000 £4,200
5 18/11/2021 Swissborg £7,000 £11,200
6 18/11/2021 Swissborg £3,000 £14,200
7 19/11/2021 Swissborg £10,000 £24,200
8 22/11/2021 Swissborg Credit of £9,990 £14,190
8 23/11/2021 Payward £10,000 £24,190
9 02/12/2021 Payward £10,000 £34,190
10 16/12/2021 Payward £25,000 £59,190
11 11/01/2021 Payward £5,000 £64,190
Mrs D and Miss D tried to withdraw the profit that they thought that they had made with B but 
were told they needed to provide further funds as their withdrawal could not be processed. 
At this point Mrs D and Miss D realised that they had been scammed and they referred this 
matter to HSBC. HSBC declined to refund Mrs D and Miss D the transactions in question so 
they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They thought that HSBC should have done more 
when transaction 5 was attempted. This is because the payment was out of character for 
Mrs D and Miss Ds account. The investigator thought that the scam would have likely been 
prevented if HSBC had contacted Mrs D and Miss D at the point of transaction 5 and asked 
probing questions about the nature of the payment. 
They did though think that there should be a deduction from any refund of 50%, because it 
feels that Mrs D and Miss D contributed to their own loss. 
HSBC did not agree with this, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
Putting things right
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Let me explain 
why.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs D and Miss D authorised the disputed payments they made to the 
crypto-exchange platforms. It is my understanding that once they purchased crypto, the 
funds were subsequently transferred to B which was actually another separate crypto wallet, 
of which I understand the scammers had access to. And it was from that crypto wallet that 
the scammers extracted the money (in the form of a crypto currency) from. So the payments 
were requested by Mrs D and Miss D - to purchase crypto - using their legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC. 
The starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. However, Ive considered whether 
HSBC should have done more to prevent Mrs D and Miss D from falling victim to the scam, 
as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at 
the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of 
character.
In relation to the first four payments, I think overall that they were not so out of character that 
HSBC should have intervened. 
I do think however, that transaction 5 should really have prompted intervention from HSBC. I 
say this because it was for a larger amount to a crypto exchange that they had only recently 
started using and was one of a number of payments actioned within a short space of time. 
So there were several indications that they were being scammed, which HSBC ought 
reasonably to have been aware of.
Had HSBC contacted Mrs D and Miss D about this transaction to check the funds were not 
being transferred as part of a scam, I think its likely that a scam warning would have 
stopped Mrs D and Miss D from transferring any more money to their crypto wallet. Had HSBC contacted Mrs D and Miss D and asked them further questions and for more of 
the basic surrounding context, I think its likely they would have explained what they were 
doing and that they were making an investment after being approached by broker, where 
they was being told to send money to the broker via crypto-exchange platforms. They would 
have likely told them that the broker was making trades on their behalf, which is also 
another hallmark of this type of investment scam and that they had granted this broker 
remote access to their computer. So HSBC should have recognised these circumstances of 
being indicative of a scam and have acted to provide Mrs D and Miss D with a warning.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mrs D and Miss D from their trusted bank would have 
probably led them to discover various scam warnings online. I appreciate there were no FCA 
warnings about the merchant at this point, but I can see there were other websites warning 
people about investing with B around this time as well.
Even if Mrs D and Miss D had not worked out that the broker they were talking to was 
fraudulent, it is likely that a warning would have at least alerted them to the common issues 
arising in relation to cryptocurrency scams, which in turn would have revealed the truth 
behind the supposed brokers representations. This would have probably stopped Mrs D and 
Miss D in their tracks. So, but for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or 
financial harm, Mrs D and Miss D probably wouldnt have continued to make the payments.
HSBC have argued that it did provide warnings online when the first transactions to each of 
the exchanges were made. But in my view, HSBC should have gone beyond a pop-up 
warning especially for transaction 5. There should have been a human intervention and for 
the reasons set out above I think an intervention at this point would have stopped the scam 
from continuing. 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, Mrs D and Miss D have not set out what research they 
did on B prior to investing and I would expected them to have done some research prior to 
investing given the amounts of money that they were prepared to send to them. The manner 
in which their broker interacted with them seemed unprofessional - he used emojis in his 
communications and was very informal. Mrs D and Miss D made a number of transactions 
over a short period of time without waiting to see how their investment performed. Also in 
Bs e-mail footers there is a section explaining why some people say that B is a scam, I dont 
think a legitimate investment firm would need to put this in their e-mail footers.
As a result, I believe a deduction in compensation of 50% in recognition of their share of 
responsibility is warranted, which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after Mrs 
D and Miss D reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered. 
However, in these circumstances, I dont think there was any way for HSBC to have 
recovered the funds.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC Bank UK PLC 
to:
(1) Refund Mrs D and Miss D 50% of the total transactions from (and including) payment 
5. Deducting first any refunds received prior to calculating what 50% of the total is. 
This should total around £30,000 
(2) Pay 8% simple interest per year on these payments from the date they paid them to 
the date of settlement less appropriate tax.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay the 
redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman