DRN-3954971
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank incorrectly took 
payments from his account.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr C opened an account with a video gaming service and set up a payment 
authority using his Tesco card. The initial charge was £1.00 for the first month followed by 
monthly payments of £10.99.
In April 2022 Mr C noticed that two payments of £10.99 were being deducted each month 
instead of one. He contacted the video gaming service, who said it was only collecting one 
payment and advised Mr C to contact his bank.
Mr C raised a payment dispute with Tesco. Tesco refunded £66.94 to cover duplicate 
payments up to July 2022. It later refunded a further £21.98 to cover duplicate payments 
taken in August and September 2022.
Tesco acknowledged that there had been delays in responding to Mr Cs complaint and 
offered compensation of £75. In relation to the duplicate payments, Tesco said it could block 
the video gaming service from taking further payments, but it would need Mr Cs 
authorisation to do this. It said Mr C would then need to set up an alternative payment 
method for the subscription.  
Mr C wasnt willing to have payments blocked and was unhappy with the way in which Tesco 
had handled his complaint. He complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Tesco had acted fairly by refunding all 
duplicate payments up to September 2022. She also said that the compensation offered for 
the delays and poor service in the handling of Mr Cs complaint was reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree. He remained unhappy about the way in which Tesco had handled his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably when Mr C made it aware that 
his payments were being taken twice. When Mr C first raised his complaint, Tesco asked 
him to provide further information about the subscription to the video gaming service. It also 
asked Mr C to provide confirmation from the video gaming service that it hadnt been 
charging him twice. 
Mr C later advised Tesco that he didnt have confirmation from the video gaming service that 
it wasnt charging him twice because hed been in contact with them via live chat and didnt 
have anything in writing. 
I think it was reasonable for Tesco to request this information so it could investigate the 
complaint. However, I can see that Tesco asked Mr C for the same information more than 
once even though hed already provided it. There were also delays in the investigation of the 
complaint. So, I understand why Mr C was frustrated with the service he received, the time 
he spent dealing with duplicate requests for information and the way in which his complaint 
was handled.
Tesco has acknowledged that it didnt provide the level of service that Mr C expected. It 
offered to pay £75 compensation, which Mr C has now received. Mr C has told this service 
that he wasnt looking for compensation from Tesco, save for the disputed amounts paid to 
the video gaming service. Mr C says he was instead looking for recognition that Tesco 
hadnt handled his complaint professionally. 
I agree with Mr C that the service he received was poor. However, its not the role of this 
service to punish a business and I think the acknowledgement of poor service and offer of 
compensation is a reasonable resolution to this aspect of the complaint. So, I wont be 
asking Tesco to pay further compensation.
Ive gone on to look at the duplicate payments. The type of payment which Mr C set up to 
the video gaming service is known as a continuous payment. This means the payment will 
be taken by the merchant (the video gaming service) on an ongoing basis unless and until 
Mr C gives an instruction for the payment to stop. The amount of the payment and the 
frequency of payment is between Mr C and the merchant. It isnt something over which 
Tesco have any control.
Duplicate payments would only be charged if the merchant collected the payment twice. 
Tesco simply implements the request for payment by the merchant. So, even though Mr C 
has said that the merchant has told him that it isnt taking duplicate payments, I think its 
more likely that the error lies with the merchant here.
I can see that Tesco has refunded some of the duplicate payments to Mr C. I think Tesco 
acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. I appreciate that the duplicate payments continue to 
be taken. Ive looked at the advice Tesco gave to Mr C about how to deal with this. It said it 
could block all future payments to the merchant but explained that it needed Mr Cs authority 
to do this, which he wasnt willing to provide. 
The alternative way of dealing with the problem is for Mr C to speak to the merchant again 
and ask it to cancel the duplicate payment.
I understand that this has been a frustrating experience for Mr C. And. As Ive said, the 
customer service provided by Tesco was poor. However, taking everything into account, I 
think the resolution offered by Tesco was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman