DRN-2973005
The complaint
Mr T complains HSBC UK Bank plc made an error when he transferred money abroad using 
their foreign exchange service.
What happened
Mr T needed to transfer around £160,000 abroad. He called HSBC and says he was told 
given the amount involved itd be best for him to go into branch so all checks could be 
completed. He says he was also told on the phone itd be best for the money to be sent in 
the foreign currency from the UK, as the exchange rate was likely to be better. 
On 26 September 2019 Mr T went to branch, and arranged two transfers of around 
£130,000, and £30,000. Mr T says the paperwork he provided to HSBCs staff showed an 
intermediary bank needed to be entered, but he couldnt see thatd happened. He said he 
thought HSBC knew what they were doing, so signed the forms they asked him to. 
Later, Mr T was contacted by the beneficiary of the funds to say they hadnt been received. 
So, on 11 October 2019 he contacted HSBC to ask whatd happened  and was told the 
payments were being returned. On 14 October 2019 the smaller payment was credited back 
to his account  but the amount was around £1,500 less than hed sent. Mr T called HSBC 
and was told this was due to exchange rate fluctuations. He asked about the £130,000 
payment and was told the payment was being held because the exchange rate loss was too 
high.
Mr T raised a complaint, but at this point the larger payment still hadnt been credited. It 
eventually was on 15 November 2019, and Mr T had lost over £8,000 on this payment, 
meaning a total loss of over £9,500.
HSBC replied to Mr Ts complaint and said they could see the beneficiary bank had returned 
the money due to economic and regulatory compliance but hadnt provided any more 
information  or asked them to get anything more from Mr T. They said theyd processed the 
instructions as hed set out and suggested speaking to the beneficiary bank directly. HSBC 
said because there wasnt an error, they wouldnt be looking to cover any of Mr Ts 
exchange rate losses, but said they were sorry to hear of the service provided so paid him 
£100 compensation. HSBC also said they wouldnt be aware of what the beneficiary bank 
has chosen as their intermediary bank before making the payment. They said once the 
payment is made then its automatically added on and they cant do it themselves. 
Unhappy with this response Mr T asked us to look into things. He said he spoke to the 
receiving bank and they were shocked HSBC would send the transfer in the way they did  
as they should have known the currency they tried to send the money in wouldnt be 
accepted, and that it had to go through an intermediary. As a result of this, Mr T says hes 
lost over £9,500 plus consequential losses as the money was going to a building project 
which has been severely impacted by these errors. 
One of our investigators started looking into things, and Mr T emphasised HSBC didnt follow 
standard banking procedure when making the transfer. He said he now knew that the 
transfer to the country he was sending money to couldnt be made in the currency he was 
told to send it in. He added had HSBCs staff member been properly trained, or their 
systems configured to pick up errors, then this wouldnt have happened. 
Initially, our investigator found that HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. She explained she 
could see the intermediary details werent on the payment instructions and would have 
expected Mr T to question this at the time if he had concerns. She also couldnt find anything 
to evidence the currency Mr Ts funds were sent in couldnt be sent to the country they were. 
So, she didnt uphold his complaint. 
In response Mr T said hed speak to the beneficiary bank to confirm why they didnt process 
the payment. He added hed asked HSBC at the time why they didnt add the intermediary 
details, and they did have the facility to add them. And that hed ask HSBC for further 
evidence to demonstrate theyve made a mistake.
After gathering more information, our investigator still felt HSBC werent responsible for 
issues at the start  and didnt think HSBC were responsible for the exchange rate changes 
either as thats part of their terms and conditions. She didnt think there was a delay in 
returning the £30,000 transfer but did think there was a delay on the larger one. She 
considered those delays, but couldnt conclusively establish when the money should have 
been returned to Mr T. Because of that, she felt it fair HSBC pay Mr T half of the losses he 
incurred - £4,068.41  plus a total of £300 compensation for the issues theyd caused.
 
HSBC did accept this outcome, but Mr T didnt. He said its hard to understand how any fault 
sits with him given hes relied on the advice hes been given by HSBC. Mr T said he 
understands HSBC cant be held responsible for the exchange rate fluctuations, but hed 
relied on their advice and made a loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wanted to let both parties know Ive read and taken into account all the points made, but Ill 
only reflect in this decision what I think is most relevant the outcome of the case. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy to either party, but instead reflects my informal role in deciding 
matters.
I can understand why Mr T would be frustrated. Hes called HSBC, asked to make two 
sizable transfers, and been told to go to branch to do them. Hes then gone to branch, filled 
in the paperwork, signed it  and theyve been returned. What I need to decide is whether 
HSBC did anything wrong that led to the payments being returned.
Mr T believes its HSBCs responsibility to ensure all the details are correct, HSBC have said 
Mr T signed off the instructions, and that they cant add an intermediary its the beneficiary 
banks responsibility to do so.
The two issues Mr T has focused on is the currency the transfer was sent in, and the 
intermediary bank details.From the information I have it seems Mr T was asked to make the payment in the currency 
of the country he was sending the payment to  as those were the instructions he was given 
by proposed recipient. So, although HSBC may also have told him to send the payment in 
the countrys currency, I think its likely he would have done so anyway as thats what the 
proposed recipient of the funds had told him to do. And I think itd be unusual to find that any 
payment would be rejected for that reason. That means I dont think itd be fair or reasonable 
to hold HSBC accountable for this  Mr T has asked to make payment in the relevant 
currency, which HSBC have processed for him.
And I note that Mr T has been given conflicting explanations by different parties for the 
reason for the returned payments. One was due to economic and regulatory compliance, 
another because of the currency it was sent in, and another because no intermediary details 
were used.
This brings me on to the intermediary details. Mr T has pointed to this as being a reason why 
HSBC have made an error as well  and hes asked for a form called an MT103 that he says 
will show the intermediary details werent included. HSBC have taken some time to reply 
properly to us on this point  but its not in dispute the intermediary bank details were not 
included when the payment was sent.
I note Mr T has said he gave them to HSBC. But theyve said that customers cant choose 
what intermediary bank is selected  and have explained they wouldnt know who the 
beneficiary bank has chosen as their intermediary before the payment is made. So, their 
system would include an intermediary bank, if selected by the beneficiary bank. This sounds 
like a logical explanation to me  given the number of different banks theyd send payments 
to, it seems reasonable that any intermediary details are provided by the beneficiary bank. 
But, in Mr Ts case, after selecting the correct beneficiary bank, no intermediary details were 
shown.
I note Mr T has said that maybe then their system is deficient. And I can understand why he 
might argue that. But I cant know if the reason the payments werent received was because 
the beneficiary bank didnt choose their intermediary details correctly. And I have to come 
back to the conflicting reasons given by the parties Mr T has spoken to in the country he was 
sending the payment. Theres no clear or consistent explanation for the reason for the 
payment being returned. 
That means that, effectively, Mr T has gone into a branch of HSBC, asked to transfer money 
and provided all the details for that to be done  and HSBC have processed his payments in 
line with his instructions without any obvious reason not to. I have significant sympathy for 
Mr T in this situation. Im not sure hes done anything wrong but is suffering some losses. 
But I can only require HSBC to make good those losses if I think theyve made an error. And 
for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not satisfied theyve done anything wrong when 
sending the payment.
I also dont think they did anything wrong when returning the smaller payment  as I can see 
Mr T acknowledges HSBC cant be held responsible for changes in exchange rates if a 
payment is returned  which is in line with the terms and conditions of sending payments as 
well. But I do think they should have done more when returning the larger payment. Our 
investigator recommended half the amount Mr T lost - £4,068.41  plus a total of £300 
compensation for the issues theyd caused.
Because of the size of Mr Ts loss when the exchange rates moved and the payment was 
being returned, HSBC held on to it in an effort to minimise his losses. I think thats fair. But it 
seems there are potentially times when the payment could have been returned which would 
have meant Mr T wouldnt have lost quite as much as he did.I dont think well ever get enough information to reach an accurate figure, and so in the 
absence of being able to get to that I think the award of half the losses is fair. So, Im 
satisfied thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case  and I have noted 
HSBC have accepted this. 
I can see Mr T had to contact HSBC quite a few times about what was happening before he 
got clear answers with his payments. Given the amount of the payment being returned I do 
think this would have caused a lot of distress  so am satisfied £300 compensation is fair.  
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr T half of his 
exchange rate losses, which come to £4,068.41, plus £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman