DRN-4374925
The complaint
Miss S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wouldnt refund money she 
lost in an investment scam.
What happened
What Miss S says:
In January 2022, Miss S read an article about bitcoin investment  and how someone had 
made good returns. She went online and looked at a bitcoin trading platform and was then 
contacted by someone who said he was an investment advisor. 
She was told how to set up an account with an investment platform (B) and was given an 
account manager, who then contacted her. Miss S researched the website of B and it looked 
credible. She saw reviews from other customers of B  who said they were making good 
returns. The account manager said she could double her money within six months.
He coached her to set up an app for the investment platform (I will call the investment 
company B) and helped Miss S open an account with a payment services provider (which I 
will call PSP1). This was a crypto wallet for the purposes of receiving money from a bank 
account and then transferring it to B.
Miss S made a number of small trades  by sending funds from her bank accounts to PSP1 
and then to B. And saw her investment growing by looking at her account in Bs website. 
She was encouraged to make further investments  and sent £15,610 from another bank. 
These payments are the subject of a separate complaint brought to our service.
The account manager sent her WhatsApp messages every day to make sure she could see 
the profits she was making. And sent regular investment reports. He pressurised her to 
invest more money.
In March 2022, she received a warning from PSP1 to say her account had been frozen due 
to suspected suspicious activity. The account manager told her how to respond to PSP1, 
and she was then encouraged by the account manager to open another account with a 
second payment services provider (PSP2). The account manager showed her how to 
transfer money from her bank accounts to PSP2, and then onto the investment company.
Miss S then made further payments from another bank account to PSP2 and then to B - 
totalling £17,290. These payments are the subject of another complaint brought to our 
service.
Miss S was in touch with the account manager by WhatsApp messages from January 2022 
to June 2022.
In May 2022, the account manager said the bitcoin market was crashing and her account 
was falling into deficit  her initial investment was going down. Miss S went into panic 
mode. He said she had to buy insurance (costing £20,000) to protect her investment  but 
she would still make a profit. Miss S said she had no money left  but under pressure from 
the account manager, she took out a loan for £4,000 and sent that to PSP2 and then to the 
investment company. These payments made from her RBS account and which are the 
subject of this complaint:
Date Payment type/beneficiary Amount 
1 June 2022 Faster payment / PSP2 £3,000
1 June 2022 Faster payment / PSP2 £1,000
23 June 2022 Credit from PSP2 (£117.15)
Total £3,882.85
Miss S believed she would immediately get her investment money back, but she couldnt 
then get access to the website of B, and the WhatsApp messages to / from the account 
manager were blocked. She then realised she had been the victim of a scam.
She had sold her house the year before and a lot of the money had been lost. She was now 
finding it difficult to pay bills. She now had a high interest loan to make repayments to;  and 
had to move in with her partner to enable her to live. Her losses were putting pressure on 
her relationship. She feels anxious and angry.
Miss S said her account with RBS was new and the payments werent typical. She said RBS 
shouldve done more to protect her. She says the bank should refund the money she paid 
from her RBS account.
What RBS said:
Miss S contacted RBS in June 2023. RBS said they hadnt investigated the case  as Miss S 
needed to report it to their scams investigation department. They gave Miss S referral rights 
to our service  and so the complaint came to us to look at.
Our investigation so far:
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator asked RBS for details as to what 
had happened. RBS said to us:
- Miss S hadnt raised a case with their fraud team.
- When Miss S made the online payment to a new payee she was asked what the 
payment was for  and was presented with a warning message. Depending on the 
option she chose, she would then have received a further warning about investing in 
cryptocurrency, together with  a link to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
website  which gave guidance on crypto scams.
- RBS matched the beneficiary successfully using the Confirmation of Payee tool.
- The payments werent flagged by RBS systems as being unusual or suspicious.
- Miss S had authorised the payments. And she was given a one-time passcode  
which she input to confirm the payments.- RBS said Miss S hadnt done sufficient due diligence  the FCA register wouldve 
shown that A wasnt registered.
- Online research on B showed it was not authorised by the FCA and was a scam.
- She put a lot of trust in the account manager.
- There wasnt a contract for the investment.
- The point at which funds were lost was when they were sent from PSP2 to B  so 
Miss S should contact PSP2.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss S complaint. He said the payments didnt seem unusual, 
considering Miss S account had just been opened. RBS hadnt tried to recover any of the 
funds  as they had likely left the crypto wallet and transferred to B immediately.
Miss S didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss S has lost money in a cruel and sophisticated scam. Its not in 
question that she authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although she 
didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in 
the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider RBS should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Miss S own account with the 
payment service (PSP2). The important matter here is whether these were payments that RBS might reasonably have 
considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the payment and 
contacted Miss S about them. 
I looked at Miss S account history with RBS. It was a new account  the opening deposit 
was made on 19 April 2022. But then, there were ten payments of £1,000 (and one for £500) 
between then and the payments to PSP2 on 1 June 2022.  So, I dont think the payments of 
£3,000 and £1,000 were unusual for her. 
Im also mindful that theres a balance to be struck: RBS has obligations to be alert to fraud 
and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, 
I think RBS acted reasonably in processing the payments.
I also noted that RBS sent Miss S a scam warning when she set up the payments; with a link 
to the FCAs further information on scams.
So, I dont think I can reasonably hold RBS liable for these payments, 
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether RBS took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. 
Miss S says she contacted RBS as soon as she realised she had been scammed, but RBS 
have said they have no record of this  until Miss S complained in June 2023. And by that 
time, there were never going to be any funds left  as its usual in scams of this type that 
funds are removed by the scammers within hours. In addition, the account with PSP2 was in 
Miss Ss own name, and she then moved the funds onto the investment company  so there 
werent any funds to be reclaimed.
Miss S has lost a lot of money. Shes explained why the money was important to her, and 
the impact her losses have had. I was sorry to learn of her circumstances. She will therefore 
be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask RBS to do anything here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman