DRN-3170614
The complaint
 Mr A feels that Arrow Global Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr A entered a credit agreement in late 2014. Arrow bought the outstanding debt relating to 
this agreement in August 2019. Mr A complained about the amount of the debt Arrow were 
asking him to pay and the date of the default recorded against him on his credit file.
In January 2020 Arrow responded to his complaint saying there wasnt any persuasive 
evidence of the debt amount being wrong, but it accepted that the default date was wrong 
and needed changing which it said it would organise as its the data owner.
Between January 2020 and May 2021 the default date was wrongly recorded on a regular 
basis. And in May 2021 it stopped being recorded as it was now more than six years old and 
it dropped off from being reported as it should. 
But Mr A wasnt happy with Arrows position, so he complained to this Service in October 
2020. Arrow has said its incorrect reporting was due to different reasons at different times 
and that it tried to fix these. But it broadly has accepted that it was at fault on a number of 
occasions in the period in question. It then offered £150 for the issues suffered by Mr A.
Our investigator issued an assessment in April 2021 saying the default date needed fixing 
but there wasnt persuasive evidence that any other aspect of Mr As complaint should be 
upheld. The Investigator felt the £150 offered was insufficient and thought Arrow should pay 
an additional £100 and fix the default date issue.
Arrow agreed to fix the default date but didnt think the £100 in addition was warranted. But 
for reasons unclear there were difficulties with correcting the date of the default again. In 
May 2021 the default stopped being reported on Mr As credit file and as such the issues Mr 
A was suffering with his credit file came to an end. But hed had to keep checking his credit 
file as he no longer had faith in Arrow to report matters correctly.
So in September 2021 our Investigator issued another assessment stating that due to the 
continued issues with the default and the customer service being provided to Mr A overall he 
felt a total of £350 should be paid to Mr A. As that amount reflected the distress and 
inconvenience that had been suffered throughout all these issues.
Arrow has been in contact with this service repeatedly since then but hasnt provided or 
articulated whether it either disagrees with the findings or that it has settled these issues. 
Accordingly this decision comes to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly both parties accept what has happened here and there is no substantial debate 
about the facts of the matter regarding the default date. And the other issues Mr A 
complained about regarding the debt amount has been settled. What is disputed is what is 
an appropriate remedy for what has happened here.
I have considered Arrows arguments here and what has happened afresh, and I dont think 
it has fairly considered the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A overall. I note that 
Arrow has been repeatedly chased for its position on these issues over the months and 
hasnt been able to articulate itself with regard to our Investigators second assessment. This 
matter has been going on for too long and finality is an important issue to consider here and 
is in both parties interests.
It is also clear that even though Arrow has been the data owner throughout this process (and 
not the credit reference agencies) it hasnt been able to ensure regular reliable reporting on 
Mr As default since it accepted it was wrong in its Final Response Letter dated early 
January 2020.
Its also clear that Mr A has pointed to the distress and worry he has suffered throughout this 
period. He has told this service that he suffers from mental health issues and what has 
happened here has made these worse.
And bearing in mind that all Mr A has asked with regard to his default is that it was recorded 
correctly. And the only obligation Arrow has here is to report the default accurately. But 
Arrow hasnt managed this straightforward task for extended periods of time. And 
considering what has happened here it isnt implausible to consider that had the default 
happened more recently Mr A might still be contacting Arrow to report accurately the default 
date now.
Arrow to its credit accepted before this complaint reached this service that it had recorded 
the default incorrectly. But the issue remains it has repeatedly reported it incorrectly between 
January 2020 and May 2021 even though it has been on notice on regular occasions 
throughout this period that the information recorded and available on his credit file was 
wrong.
Accordingly I think this complaint should be successful. I have considered the quantum of 
this remedy and decided the amount previously awarded is fair and reasonable. I can see Mr 
A has put a lot of effort into getting the reporting correct and has had significant 
inconvenience here over a protracted period of time. But I can also see that Mr A hasnt 
pointed to any substantial consequential losses suffered here due to what Arrow did. So I 
see no reason to change the award made originally.
  
Putting things right
Accordingly I direct Arrow Global Limited to make a total payment of £350 (less any 
payments already made to Mr A regarding distress and inconvenience for these credit file 
issues) in relation to what has gone wrong here. I think this is a fair and reasonable remedy 
to the matter.
Arrow should make any outstanding payment to Mr A within 28 days of notification that Mr A 
accepted this decision. 
Mr A is at liberty to not accept this and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes. However 
this decision brings to an end our investigation process into this matter.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about 
Arrow Global Limited and it should remedy the matter as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman