DRN-4438605
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement she has with MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MIVF).
What happened
In September 2022 Miss F acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with MIVF. 
The car cost around £9,000 and it had covered around 60,000 miles. There was a deposit of 
£1,500 towards the agreement. Miss F said before acquiring the car she noticed the armrest 
was broken and the supplying dealer (the dealer) agreed to have it replaced for her. 
When Miss F took possession of the car she noticed the armrest was still broken. She spoke 
to the dealer and says it agreed to source and replace it for her. 
A few days later Miss F says she noticed a loud rattling from underneath the car. She says 
she returned to the dealer and it said the back box silencer needed replacing but it was 
unable to do it so Miss F went to another garage. Miss F says the garage also noted a 
locking wheel nut was missing, which could have been an MOT fail. Miss F says the dealer 
ordered a new locking wheel nut set. Miss F took the car to another garage to have the 
rattling inspected and it told her the exhaust and back box needed replacing. She says the 
dealer paid around £340 to have this done. 
Miss F says following this, she continued to speak to the dealer about the armrest but things 
werent progressing. She contacted MIVF and the broker for help towards the end of October 
2022. MIVF tried to chase up responses for Miss F. The broker offered £80 for the trouble 
having the repair carried out, when the part arrived at the dealer. 
Things still werent resolved over the next couple of months and Miss F complained. She 
said the problem wasnt simply a minor cosmetic issue. The unattached armrest had sharp 
edges and had caused her an injury. MIVF sent a response to the complaint towards the end 
of December 2022 saying the new armrest should be delivered soon and that it would credit 
Miss F £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset. 
Miss F was unhappy the matter wasnt sorted despite regular chasing. Towards the end of 
January 2023, she says she went to the dealer to find out what was happening but was 
fobbed off. She returned a few days later when the dealer said the armrest had been 
received. Frustrated with progress, she decided to take it home and arrange to have it fitted 
herself, but when she opened the package, she realised the design and size were wrong. It 
didnt match the cars interior and it wasnt compatible. It looks like MIVF agreed with the 
broker that if the dealer didnt resolve things it would pay Miss F the cost of what a genuine 
replacement would cost, which she says was around £170. 
Miss F says she continued to chase progress but wasnt getting anywhere. She also referred 
her complaint to our service saying shed asked to return the car but this had been refused. 
In May 2023 the broker sent another response to her complaint saying it would offer £100 
compensation and £171 for the replacement armrest. Miss F wasnt happy with this. 
In summary, Miss F says shed tried to reject the car within a few weeks, but the dealer said 
the issues would be resolved. She says MIVF told her she couldnt reject the car due to the 
timing. Miss F says she now no longer wants to keep the car. She says its now very difficult 
to locate a replacement armrest and she doesnt think she should be put to all the trouble of 
resolving things herself. 
Our investigator looked into things and said she didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality. She said the repair to the armrest had taken an unreasonably long amount of time. 
And so she thought Miss F should be allowed to reject the car. She said MIVF should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Collect the car at no cost to Miss F. 
Refund the deposit contribution of £1,500.
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the refunded amounts from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
Pay a further £100 compensation. 
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Miss Fs credit file. 
Miss F accepted the recommendations, but MIVF didnt. It said it appreciated thered been a 
delay resolving the issue with the armrest, but this was down to a shortage of parts and later 
due to an incorrect part being ordered. It said it would be unfair to allow Miss F to reject the 
goods now shes changed her mind on accepting the repair. MIVF also said thered been no 
failed repair as one was never carried out. It said Miss F hadnt been significantly 
inconvenienced by the issue and her use of the car hadnt been impacted. It also said if 
Miss F gave the broker her account details for a refund, things would have been resolved. 
Finally, it said rejection for an armrest is unjustified. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Miss F and MIVF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Miss F acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss F entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.
The car was used and had covered around 60,000 miles. So Id have different expectations 
of it that if it was a brand new car. But given the car cost around £9,000 I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to have been supplied with any major issues present. 
Ive first considered the exhaust and back box needed replacing within a few days of Miss F 
taking possession of the car. I dont think a reasonable person in this situation would expect 
to have been required to replace those parts within a few days. It suggests there was a fault with the car when it was supplied. And I think that fault made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality, which would be a breach of contract in relation to the implied terms relating to the 
quality of the goods. While MIVF werent involved at that stage, the supplying dealer 
arranged for the repair to be covered for the exhaust and back box, which seems to have 
resolved things.  
Miss F also mentioned the dealer needed to replace the locking wheel nuts. I understand 
having a missing wheel nut is an MOT failure. And would likely be an issue with regards to 
the safety of the car. I dont have further supporting evidence for this but, on balance, it looks 
like this was another issue with the quality of the car that also led to a breach of contract, 
albeit one that looks like its been remedied. 
So I think both issues were resolved, but it was no doubt disappointing for Miss F and 
inconvenient having to sort things out. 
The armrest is a slightly different sort of issue, because its an express term of the contract 
that I think was breached. The issue with the armrest didnt get resolved for months. Miss F 
must have been incredibly frustrated at having to send so many emails She had to chase the 
dealer, the broker and MIVF. She attended the dealer several times. The dealer eventually 
ordered the wrong armrest. And she was left with an offer to sort it out herself. I dont think 
this is fair, or what was agreed before she entered into the contract. 
The car shouldnt have been supplied with an issue with the armrest. Just because this is a 
part that doesnt impact whether or not the car can be driven doesnt mean it should just be 
classed as not being very important. It was important to Miss F. She says the sharp edges 
injured her. From looking at the photos supplied, I can see how this could happen. So at 
worst, this is another problem that could impact safety. 
The repair to the armrest wasnt carried out within a reasonable amount of time. And I think 
trying to sort things out was becoming very inconvenient for Miss F. Shes supplied a very 
detailed timeline of all the effort shes gone to in trying to resolve matters. I appreciate MIVF 
was, to a large extent, reliant on the dealer. And that MIVF wasnt involved at the start. But I 
think it would have been clear to MIVF after a few months that it might have been sensible to 
look at other options rather than wait for the dealer. This might have resolved things for 
Miss F.  
How should things be put right now? I can understand why MIVF would think that simply 
paying Miss F to have the armrest replaced would be a fair way to resolve things. I think that 
paying damages would be in line with a fair remedy for a breach of an express term of the 
contract. But, in the very particular circumstances of this complaint, its taken far too long to 
resolve matters and I dont think paying damages is suitable. The part needs to be fixed. Its 
proven not easy to do. Miss F says the part is hard to source. MIVF has also indicated 
theres a shortage of parts. The car is nearly 10 years old now, so its not unusual parts are 
harder to find. Im not persuaded that paying damages will help Miss F resolve things. 
Therefore, I find the recommendations made by our investigator to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. I agree Miss F should be able to hand the car back at no cost, with a 
refund of the deposit. I find the monthly payments Miss F has made to be broadly fair for 
MIVF to keep in relation to the use Miss F has had of the car. Our investigator said a further 
£100 compensation was fair. For the reasons given above, I think MIVF could have helped 
bring matters to a close sooner. While its not responsible for everything that went wrong, I 
find a further £100 to be fair. And this should be in addition to the £100 it previously offered. 
If thats not been paid, it should pay her £200 in total. Miss F accepted the provisional decision. I cant see weve received a further response from 
MIVF. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as though Miss F has accepted the provisional decision, and I cant see weve had 
further submissions from MIVF I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached.
Putting things right
I direct MI Vehicle Finance Limited to:
1. End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Miss F. 
3. Refund the deposit contribution of £1,500.
4. Pay 8% simple annual interest* on the refunded amounts from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
5. Pay £200 compensation. MIVF can offset anything already paid from this amount. 
6. Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Miss Fs credit file. 
*If MIVF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss F how much tax its taken off. It should also give Miss F a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct MI Vehicle Finance Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman