DRN-3042267
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance UK Limited unfairly declined his claim and cancelled 
his policy.
What happened
Around June 2020, Mr G made a claim under his home insurance policy for high value 
watches and electricals. Mr G told Aviva that hed been living elsewhere and the items he 
wanted to claim for had been stolen from his current residence a few months prior to the 
claim. Mr Gs policy was for his own property which he said has been a rental property since 
he moved out. 
Aviva declined the claim and decided to cancel Mr Gs policy. The insurer said Mr G didnt 
inform it that his property had been let out and that it didnt offer cover for rental properties. 
Aviva backdated the cancellation to December 2019 when Mr G says the insured property 
was no longer his main home and refunded any premiums Mr G paid from that point. Aviva 
also recognised that it had caused some confusion and stress by not cancelling the policy 
sooner and that it had provided Mr G with conflicting information  so it sent him a cheque 
for £250 as compensation. 
Mr G complained because he wanted Aviva to cover his claim. He says he advised Aviva in 
December 2019 that his property had been let out and that he was living elsewhere. Aviva 
responded saying Mr Gs rental property couldnt be covered under the policy and that its 
terms require him to advise the insurer of any changes. Aviva referred to a call that took 
place in December 2019, during which Mr G was informed that it couldnt cover his rental 
property and said it was agreed Mr G would make contact about cancelling his cover. The 
insurer confirmed that it continued collecting premiums as it never received a cancellation 
request from Mr G.
Mr G asked this service to review the matter. Our investigator concluded that Aviva had 
acted fairly. The investigator referred to the same telephone call and felt Mr G had enough 
information to know that the policy didnt cover his rental property and that he would need to 
cancel it. The investigator also referred to the communication errors Aviva accepted and 
concluded that the compensation thats been paid so far was fair.
Mr G didnt agree  he referred to a home emergency claim in July 2020 and questions why 
this claim was honoured and not the claim thats the subject of his complaint. He says he did 
advise Aviva several times that his property had been let out, so it shouldve cancelled the 
policy sooner. Because he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators opinion on this matter and Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy require Mr G to let Aviva know of any changes relevant to the insured 
property  this includes (among other things) if the property is let out. The terms explain that 
the insurer will advise if any changes affect the policy and then go on to say that Aviva may 
cancel the policy and decline claims if information provided by Mr G is inaccurate. 
Aviva says it wouldnt have provided cover for Mr Gs rental property. This means that since 
this change took place, Mr G property was effectively insured by Aviva when it shouldnt 
have been. It seems to me that the policy Mr G had with Aviva continued running when it 
shouldnt have, so I dont think Aviva acted unfairly by declining the claim and cancelling the 
policy. 
Mr G says he notified Aviva of the change and it continued with the policy regardless. Ive 
listened to the relevant call that seems to have been carried out on Mr Gs behalf and in his 
presence. There was indeed a discussion about renting out Mr Gs property. The Aviva 
representative advised it cannot provide cover for a rental property and Mr G was then 
asked if he wished to cancel the policy  to which he asked for it to be left as it is for now. 
There arent any records of any further contact between Mr G and the insurer. So I cant 
fairly conclude that Mr G made it clear to Aviva that his property had actually been let out so 
the policy could be cancelled.
As Avivas terms point out, the insurer can decline a claim if it finds that the information 
provided by Mr G was inaccurate. In this instance, Mr Gs policy continued after he moved 
out and let out his property. So I think Aviva also acted fairly when it declined the claim.
Aviva backdated Mr Gs cancellation to December 2019, when Mr Gs circumstances 
changed because hed let out his property. During the call I mentioned earlier, Aviva 
explained that it couldnt offer cover for a rented property. So I think Aviva acted reasonably 
when it decided to backdate the cancellation. Aviva appears to have refunded the additional 
premiums Mr G paid because he was covered for a period when he shouldnt have been and 
I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Mr G refers to a home emergency claim he made in July 2020 and is concerned that Aviva 
went ahead with this claim, yet only decided to cancel his policy when he made a claim for 
his high value watches and electronics. Aviva confirmed that a representative attended 
Mr Gs property but decided not to go ahead with the claim once it was apparent that Mr Gs 
property had been let out. So I cant conclude that this makes a difference to my decision. 
Aviva recognises that it couldve made its communications clearer to Mr G and taken more 
steps to cancel the policy sooner  even though the option to do so was left in Mr Gs hands. 
Aviva also acknowledges how it may have caused confusion for Mr G given it continued 
collecting the premiums for some time. Mr G suffers from some medical conditions, so the 
confusion Aviva caused impacted him quite significantly. Aviva sent Mr G £250 
compensation to make up for this  I think this is fair compensation for the impact Avivas 
poor communication has had on Mr G.
Mr G also claims he was treated poorly over the phone by an Aviva representative. Aviva 
hasnt been able to provide copies of all the calls Mr G engaged in regarding this claim. Mr G 
says one of the call handlers he spoke with was rude  but he hasnt given much more 
detail about what happened. And, without the call, I cant safely conclude that he was treated 
unfairly during this particular conversation. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything 
different in relation to this. 
To summarise, in my opinion, Aviva acted fairly and in line with its terms when it declined 
Mr Gs claim and cancelled his policy. Mr Gs property was turned into a rental property, so Aviva could no longer cover him, and the insurer acted fairly by refunding the additional 
premiums he paid because the policy wasnt cancelled sooner. Im also satisfied that the 
compensation Aviva has already paid Mr G is a fair way to put right the stress the insurer 
has caused him. So I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman