DRN-4027097
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs K complain Astrenska Insurance Limited (AI) failed to address underlying 
issues with his boiler when they made three claims on their home emergency insurance 
policy.
References to Mr M or Mrs K, will include the other.
AI are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the intermediary. As AI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the 
intermediary, in my decision, any reference to AI includes the actions of the intermediary.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy on 10 March 2021 when he 
was left without hot water and heating because his boiler broke down. 
AI sent out an approved contractor the day after he made the claim. A new circuit board was 
required, and it was fitted on 12 March 2021. The heating and hot water was restored.
On 15 May 2021 the boiler broke down again. Again the house was without hot water or 
heating. AI sent out another approved contractor who found that the circuit board had failed 
again. It was replaced and the heating and hot water was again restored. On this visit the 
contractor gave a quote for a new boiler.
On 4 October 2021 the boiler broke down again. Again AI sent out an approved contractor. 
This contractor found the circuit board had failed again and also the gas valve was not 
opening and there was a leak from the manifold. It was advised that the manufacturer of the 
boiler needed to come out to assess the issue or it should be deemed uneconomical to 
repair as the parts required were obsolete due to the age of the boiler.
Mr M complained the fact that the circuit board needed to be replaced three times between 
March 2021 and October 2021 was an indication of underlying problems. He said that AIs 
contractors failed to identify this. He said the boiler had had a leak for some time which had 
not been resolved by AIs contractors. He said that if the contractors had detected and fixed 
the cause of the issue in the first two instances that the boiler would not have broken down 
beyond repair.
AI said a leak was only found and recorded on the third visit. 
As Mr M was not happy with AI, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and felt that AI did not carry 
out a lasting repair and this caused inconvenience to Mr M. They said AI should pay £150 
compensation for the inconvenience. They said the boiler wouldve always been beyond 
repair and Mr M would have always had to pay for the cost of a replacement.
As AI is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
A home emergency policy is designed to respond in a timely manner to cover an immediate 
and specific issue. In this case Mr M and Mrs Ks being left without heating and hot water 
was the issue and AI accepted this was covered by their home emergency policy. 
I saw evidence that AIs approved contractors attended call outs to Mr Ms home in a timely 
manner to address the issue of no hot water or heating on each of the three occasions there 
was an issue.
I saw evidence that on the first breakdown appointment the fault was identified as a single 
part (circuit board) and a replacement part was obtained and fitted. On the second 
appointment the same part was replaced again. When AIs contractor attended after the 
boiler stopped working a third time, the same part was found to be broken again and in 
addition several other parts were found to need replacement or repair.
I do agree that any repair should be lasting and because the same part failed three times in 
a period of approximately eight months this does identify there was an underlying issue with 
the boiler somewhere. However as on the third appointment the contractor did find additional 
issues in other parts of the boiler, including a leak. And when the contractor looked to see if 
the required parts could be ordered, one part was found to be obsolete due to the age of the 
boiler being between eight and ten years old.
The contractor made a recommendation of contacting the boiler manufacturer for a further 
assessment or the boiler being classed as beyond economic repair. 
I have seen no evidence of a leak in the boiler on either the first or second visits. The 
contractors worked in line with the terms of Mr M and Mrs Ks policy and repaired the boiler 
and left it in working order. Their home emergency policy does not provide general 
maintenance or servicing of the boiler.
Mr M felt the second repair may have not been completed correctly. He said he did not use 
the boiler for hot water during the summer as he also has an electric system for water and 
due to the warm weather did not need to use the heating. He said it was only when he 
turned it back on at the end of the summer he realised it was not working. 
I understand that Mr M feels that the issues found the third time should have been identified 
earlier. He feels if a leak had been identified and repaired, this would mean he would not 
have needed to purchase a new boiler.
I think that AI sufficiently addressed the boiler breakdowns when they were reported. The 
boiler was found to be beyond economic repair because a part was obsolete, it wasnt 
beyond repair because of something AI did wrong. I do not think identifying a leak before it 
did in October 2021 wouldve meant a replacement boiler wasnt needed. 
I saw that AI covered a £500 contribution towards a replacement boiler, which is within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. I think this is fair and reasonable in this case. Although I 
understand Mr M will be disappointed, I do not think AI need to compensate Mr M further for 
the inconvenience he encountered when the boiler broke down or with the overall cost of the 
installation of a new boiler. Therefore, I intend not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ks complaint and do not require AI to do 
anything further in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to say he did not want to submit anything. 
AI responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr M and Mrs K did not submit any further comments and AI accepted my provisional 
decision, I therefore maintain my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint and do not require AI to do 
anything further in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman