DRN-2585860
The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasnt made aware of all of the terms and conditions when he 
entered into a finance agreement with NIIB Group trading as Northridge Finance.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered int a personal contract 
purchase agreement with Northridge Finance.
Mr B says he had enough money to purchase the car outright but decided to enter into the 
finance agreement to benefit from an additional two-year warranty free of charge.
Mr B says he intended to pay off as much of the balance under the agreement as he could, 
whilst still leaving a balance so as to comply with the requirement to have the agreement for 
10 months.
Mr B made partial payments in November and December 2019. Following this he asked 
Northridge to confirm how much interest he was being charged. Northridge told him and it 
was more than Mr B thought it should be.
When it was explained to Mr B that the Consumer Credit Directive allows for a partial 
payment rebate to be calculated at 28 days and deferred by a month, he was unhappy and 
raise da complaint. Northridge rejected the complaint and said it had applied the regulations 
correctly.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Northridge had applied the relevant 
regulations correctly.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the regulations hadnt been explained to him when he entered 
into the agreement.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether the agreement was mis-sold to Mr B. In order to find a mis-sale, I 
would need to be satisfied that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact, and that this 
induced Mr B to enter into the agreement.
Mr B hasnt said that the dealership told him something which wasnt true. Hes said that it 
failed to explain to him that the early settlement regulations applied to the agreement and 
that this would affect how much interest he would be charged if he settled the agreement 
early.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres been an untrue statement by the 
dealership here with regards to the effects of settling the agreement early. Even if there had 
been such a statement, I dont think this would have been the main reason for Mr B entering 
into the agreement. Mr B has said the reason he took out finance was to obtain the benefit of 
the warranty.
I can see that Mr Bs agreement is a fixed rate sum credit agreement. This means that all 
interest charges are added to the loan amount at the beginning of the agreement. The 
interest is calculated on the basis that the loan is repaid over the term.
When Mr B made a partial payment, this had the effect of reducing the monthly instalment. It 
also meant that a rebate of interest charged under the agreement had to be calculated.
Northridge has said that the rebate was calculated in line with the Consumer Credit 
Directive. This allows for a partial payment interest rebate to be calculated at 28 days and 
deferred for one month.
Ive looked at the information provided by Northridge in relation to the calculation of the 
rebate. This shows that the computation is built in to its account management system. Im 
satisfied that the process for calculating the rebate is in line with the relevant regulation and 
that the regulation has been correctly applied by Northridge.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This deals with the right to make a partial payment at 
clause 6. It states that the amount owed will be reduced by the partial payment and the 
statutory rebate. Based on this, Im satisfied that the statutory rebate was drawn to Mr Bs 
attention at the inception of finance.
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling about this but because the Consumer Credit Directive 
sets out how the rebate is to be calculated, and because Northridge has carried out the 
calculation in line with the relevant regulation, Im unable to say that Northridge has made an 
error or done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman