DRN-2925530
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt enter her into a prize 
draw as they said they would.
What happened
Miss S has a savings account with Halifax. The terms of that account said that customers 
are eligible to be entered into a monthly prize draw if they had a certain amount of money in 
the account.
 
Miss S says she didnt receive any information about the prize draw, so she went into a 
Halifax branch in 2020 to enquire about it. Branch staff said she hadnt been entered into the 
draw.
Miss S complained to Halifax on 10 August 2020. In their final response, Halifax said Miss S 
had been entered into the prize draw despite what she was told in branch. This hadnt been 
clear to its branch staff because there was an issue with its systems. However the 
information was available to Miss S on its online banking platform.
Halifax paid Miss S £75 compensation for the upset caused. Miss S says she was insulted 
by this as she had complained about the matter before and feels she may have been better 
off having a higher interest account with another provider. She also said had has lost faith in 
Halifax. Miss S was also concerned about the impact of the systems error on other account 
holders.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said that Halifax have confirmed that 
Miss S was registered for the prize draw when she asked about it in branch in 2020. It 
apologised for branch staff giving her incorrect information about this. She said the prize 
draw was offered by Halifax as an additional benefit for all their savings accounts. Our 
investigator felt the £75 paid by Halifax to resolve this complaint was enough. She 
appreciated that Miss S was concerned about the impact of the systems error on other 
account holders. But she said that her role was to consider how any mistakes made by 
Halifax have impacted on Miss S. Halifaxs regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority could 
look into the wider impact of what happened. 
Miss S remains unhappy, so she asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She 
didnt accept that prize draw was offered by Halifax as an additional benefit for all their 
savings accounts. She reiterated that shed had to complain about not being put into the 
prise draw before and provided us with a copy of a letter from Halifax that said her account 
was registered for the prize draw in February 2017. Miss S says said she wasnt put in the 
prize draw between 2015 and 2017 as she should have been.
Halifax provided us with a log of its notes on Miss S account. This log goes back to October 
2016. The log does not refer to any complaint made by Miss S before August 2020. Halifax 
says that it has no record of Miss S complaining to it about this issue before her August 2020 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S instant saver account with Halifax has qualified her for entry into a monthly prize 
draw subject to its eligibility requirements. Section 3 of the prize draw rules make it clear that 
customers needed to register for the prize draw:
To be included in each monthly draw, you must be a qualifying customer and be registered 
for the Draw. You can register: 
By entering online; 
Over the phone (we will provide phone numbers and website addresses in leaflets and other 
advertising for the Draw); or 
Through one of our branches.
Halifax have confirmed that Miss S was registered for the prize draw from February 2017. 
Theyve told us they dont have the information to say whether Miss S was registered before 
2017 as their prize draw specialists dont have the facility to check registrations any longer.
I appreciate that Miss S is very frustrated by this. She strongly believes that Halifax should 
hold that information.
Miss S also thinks Halifax should be in a position to provide us with a copy of their response 
to her first complaint about not being entered into the prize draw. Miss S cant say when that 
complaint was made. She hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the letter relating to 
that complaint. Miss S has suggested that Halifax have been dishonest by not providing us 
with a copy of it. She thinks she should get more compensation because (amongst other 
things) she has had to complain about this issue more than once.
I dont underestimate Miss S strength of feeling about this matter. I would expect Halifax to 
be in a position to provide us with information about her account and evidence of a previous 
complaint as long as that complaint was made in the last six years. However, Halifaxs notes 
of Miss S account (going back to 2016) dont cover a complaint about the prize draw before 
2020. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Halifax have acted dishonestly in relation to the 
provision of that information.
Having considered the available evidence, I cant be sure what Miss S said before 2020 
about entry into the prize draw. Given what she has told us, I think its likely that Miss S 
spoke to Halifax about her account not being in the prize draw around February 2017, and 
Miss S was registered for it from that point. It appears the matter wasnt dealt with as an 
official complaint.
Miss S complains that her account wasnt entered into the prize draw between 2015 and 
2017. However, I think its likely that that happened because Miss S didnt register her 
account for it before then. I say that because its clear to from what Miss S has told us that 
she didnt think she had to. As I said above, the account terms and conditions are clear 
about this point.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Halifax to compensate Miss S 
for not putting her into the prize draw when she hasnt registered for it.
 Taking this matter as a whole, I think that the £75 compensation Halifax have offered is a fair 
and reasonable amount to resolve this complaint. I appreciate that Miss S is likely to be 
unhappy about that. However I can see that Halifax have apologised for the upset Miss S 
was caused when she was given the wrong information in branch in 2020. Im persuaded 
that Miss S account was entered into the prize draw from February 2017. Im also conscious 
that if Miss S was unhappy with her account and her entry into the prize draw she was in a 
position to move her money to another provider if she wanted to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman