DRN-1488315
The complaint
Mr D complains about the exchange rate he received after he transferred Euros to his 
current account with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
On 23 April 2019 Mr D called Barclays and said he had €35,000 he wanted to transfer to the 
UK. Mr D asked the advisor about any charges that would apply and what the exchange rate 
would be. After placing Mr D on hold, the advisor told him each Euro would be exchanged 
for £0.87 (an exchange rate of 1.1494) and that the sending bank may apply charges. Mr D 
says that after his call with Barclays he expected to receive £30,450.66 in exchange for 
€35,000.
On 24 April 2019 Mr D transferred €35,000 to his Barclays account and received 
£29,638.41 (an exchange rate of 1.1809). Mr D later complained and said he'd been misled 
when discussing exchange rates with Barclays. 
Barclays responded on 6 June 2019 but didn't uphold Mr D's complaint. Barclays said the 
rate Mr D was quoted on 23 April 2019 had changed by the time it received his Euros. Mr D 
then referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld the complaint as he felt the advisor Mr D had spoken with had failed to 
clearly explain that the rate he quoted was liable to change. Barclays asked to appeal so Mr 
D's complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has pointed to its terms which say it can give an indication of an exchange rate but 
won't be able to confirm it until the payment is received. But I'd expect Barclays' advisor to 
have been aware of the terms and ensure important information of that nature was clearly 
signposted during his conversation with Mr D. I've listened to Mr D's call with Barclays on 23 
April 2019 but I don't think the advisor explained the situation clearly enough. 
Barclays says Mr D's enquiry was generic in nature but I disagree. He told the advisor he 
had a specific amount of Euros that he intended to transfer to the UK and asked about the 
costs involved. The enquiry was specific in its nature. The advisor placed the consumer on 
hold for several minutes while he checked the rate available. I appreciate that, in hindsight, 
the advisor was checking the rate payable at that time. But he didn't make that sufficiently 
clear when he told Mr D a Euro would cost £0.87. 
At the end of the call, as Mr D began to say good bye, the advisor said "as at today's rate". I 
know Barclays fees this should have been enough to warn Mr D that the rate he had been 
quoted was indicative only, but I don't agree. The comment was made at the end of the 
conversation after Mr D summed up the information he'd been given. I'm satisfied the advisor missed the chance to clearly explain the process and that the rate could change. 
Had they done so, I think Mr D would have acted differently. 
I recently asked our investigator to contact Mr D and check what he would've done if the 
advisor had clearly explained that the rate he was quoted was liable to change. Mr D told the 
advisor that he was researching his options when he called Barclays. Mr D said he had 
found other services that could transfer his Euros on a similar basis to those quoted by the 
advisor at Barclays and that he would have gone ahead with one of those.
Putting things right
I'm satisfied there were a number of options available to Mr D in order to transfer his 
Euros to the UK and the information he was given by the advisor persuaded him to proceed 
with Barclays. From what he's told us, I think it's more likely than not that Mr D would have 
taken a different approach to exchanging his Euros if he'd been given all the necessary 
information and that he could have received a rate in line with the one quoted by Barclays on 
23 April 2019.
Mr D was quoted a price of £0.87 per Euro which equates to an exchange rate of 1.1494 and 
would have given him a total of £30,450.66. But Mr D was charged an exchange rate 1.1809 
which meant he actually got £29,638.41, a difference of £812.26. I agree with the 
investigator that Mr D's complaint should be upheld and that Barclays should 
compensate him for the difference in exchange rates. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr D 
£812.26. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman