DRN-1651870
The complaint
Miss H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her an Additions account and a 
Tech pack.
Miss H says that she did not agree to either of these products.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think the Additions account or 
the Tech pack had been mis-sold. Miss H disagreed, so the complaint has been referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the Additions account 
and Tech pack were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Additions account 
Miss H says her account was upgraded to the Additions account without her consent. But I 
think that it is more likely that Miss H did agree to the upgrade. I say this because the 
Additions account cost £6 per month. But the key benefit of the account was that the first 
£100 of Miss Hs the overdraft was interest free and you could avoid paying a £5 overdraft 
usage fee (plus the overdraft interest) that was applied to fee-free accounts. 
Looking at the account ledgers that Barclays has provided, I can see that Miss H was 
regularly using her overdraft, before she upgraded to the Additions account. So by agreeing 
to the Additions account, she was effectively able to avoid paying overdraft fees and interest 
 which would likely have cost her more than the £6 a month the account cost her. So given 
this I think that Miss H agreed to signing up to the Additions account as it would potentially 
have saved her money on a monthly basis.
I dont think that the Additions account was recommended to Miss H so Barclays did not 
need to ensure that the benefits that it came with were right for her. But it did need to provide 
Miss H with enough information to allow her to make this decision herself. In this instance I 
think that the overdraft benefit, as it was the main benefit of the account, wouldve been 
highlighted to Miss H.
I accept that the remaining benefits may not have been fully explained to Miss H but I cant 
see anything specific that was not explained that I believe wouldve put her off agreeing to 
the Additions account. So overall I dont think that the Additions account was mis-sold.
Tech pack
Firstly, I should highlight that the Tech pack was not sold to Miss H. What actually happened 
was in 2017 Barclays decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the Additions 
account and replaced it with an option to have a fee free current account with an optional 
Tech pack.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers 
and explain the changes clearly.
 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Miss H  one before it changed her 
account, and one to confirm it had been changed. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Miss H at her current address. The first letter, sent in September 2016, gave 
Miss H information on the upcoming changes that would be happening on her account. The 
second page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the change and 
choosing to have a fee-free account without Tech pack. It gave Miss H the option of calling 
to make this change or visiting a Barclays branch to do so. The second letter was sent in 
January 2017. It confirmed that Miss Hs account had been changed. And again on the 
second page it highlighted that Miss H could remove the Tech pack if she wished to do so.
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Miss Hs account was changing from a 
Additions account to a fee free current account with a Tech pack. And that it highlighted to 
Miss H that she could opt out of having this pack if she wished to do so. I cant see that she 
contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or query it. So I cant say that Barclays 
did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the account or that it needs 
to refund the fees Miss H paid for the Tech pack since it was added to her account.
As such, taking everything into account I dont think that the Additions accounts was mis-
sold or that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the Tech pack. I therefore think it 
would be inappropriate to require Barclays to refund her the fees shes paid over the years
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman