DRN-3569891
The complaint
Mrs V complained about advice she was given by Alterno Wealth Ltd which was an 
appointed representative of Pi Financial Limited. Pi Financial Limited is now responsible for 
answering this complaint, so to keep things simple, Ill refer to PFL when mentioning the 
business involved.
Mrs V complained that she was advised to transfer out of two occupational pension schemes 
(OPS) into a personal pension plan. She says the advice was unsuitable and as a result 
says shes worse off.
What happened
Mrs V met with a representative of PFL in late 2018 to discuss her retirement needs. Aged 
55 years old at the time, Mrs V wanted to discuss her financial options. The pensions Mrs V 
was transferred out of were both defined benefit (DB) schemes which Ill mainly refer to as 
OPS1 and OPS2 and the normal retirement age for both schemes was 60. 
The cash equivalent transfer values for Mrs Vs two DB plans in 2018 were approximately 
£19,300 (OPS1) and £99,000 (OPS2) respectively. In both cases Mrs V was a deferred 
member of these schemes, meaning shed left the employers some years before. 
A summary of what PFLs fact find revealed her financial / pension objectives to be going 
forward was as follows: 
a) income flexibility whilst maximising the amount of tax-free cash she could access, 
b) achieving growth in the new funds,
c) consolidating the administration of her pension(s), and 
d) more options around the death benefits should she pass away. 
As a result of the discussions, the PFL adviser recommended Mrs V transfer both OPS1 and 
OPS2 to a personal pension. Mrs V was also recommended to take the maximum tax-free 
cash element available to her after the transfer out, with an option of going into drawdown to 
access money if needed. The adviser said this would help Mrs V achieve her overall 
retirement objectives. 
One of our investigators comprehensively looked into the complaint and said that both OPS1 
and OPS2 should not have been recommended for transfer to a personal pension. The 
investigator said the investments would have been unable to grow enough to match the 
benefits she had in the two DB schemes. They said Mrs V should be compensated in line 
with the regulators DB transfer redress methodology. 
PFL responded by disagreeing with the investigators view and I have considered all the 
points it has made with great care. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was 
passed to me to make an ombudsmans decision. 
In June 2022 I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. I said I thought Mrs V 
ought to have been advised to stay in her two DB schemes. However, because of the 
financial situation she was in at the time of the advice, I said I thought what she would have 
most likely done was to access her DB pensions early, at the age of 56.
Mrs Vs representative has replied to the provisional decision and the only substantive point 
made relates to when she might have accessed her DB pensions. The representative said 
Mrs V still maintains that if she had been suitably advised  not to transfer out of the DB 
schemes - she would have waited until she was aged 60. At this point, she says she 
would have accessed the DB schemes, rather than at the age of 56, which is what I said.
The significant of this is that it could affect the amount of redress Mrs V is due. However, 
Ive considered this point already when I issued the provisional decision. And Ive 
thought carefully about it again  and Im afraid Im not changing what I said in my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am still upholding Mrs Vs complaint. This is my final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, PFL should have only considered the transfers if it could clearly 
demonstrate that they were in Mrs Vs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Overview
Mrs V had accrued deferred benefits having completed pensionable service, in each case, 
during the 1980s and 1990s onwards and the estimated pensions payable at both her 
schemes retirement age of 60 was £1,280 (OPS1) and £4,552 (OPS2) per year. An earlier 
retirement than 60 years of age would have resulted in a lower annual pension for Mrs V in 
both cases. I explain a little more about this later. 
Mrs V was married with grown up children not financially dependent on her at the time of the 
advice. She lived in a mobile home valued at approximately £20,000 owned jointly with her 
husband, Mr V, with no mortgage or loan outstanding. She and Mr V also owned a property 
abroad, which I understand required renovation. Again this property had no loan outstanding 
and the market value was said to be £32,000. They also had cash savings of £15,000. Mrs V 
wasnt working at the time of the advice, describing herself as unemployed, although what 
Ive seen tends to show she was hopeful of getting a job imminently, commensurate with her 
skills and experience - she already had some interviews planned at the time of the advice.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
When Mrs V was given the advice by PFL, its suitability report referred to the critical yield, a 
calculation used when comparing a DB scheme with what growth would be needed to buy 
an annuity. While the critical yield is a useful benchmark I note in Mrs Vs case she was 
recommended to transfer out of her pensions and start accessing the tax-free element very 
soon, when she would be around 56 years of age.
However, by way of comparison, at age 60, the estimated annual pension Mrs V was entitled 
to for the OPS1 scheme was £1,280 per year. Alternatively, if shed opted to take a tax-free lump sum of £5,980 with this the reduced annual pension would have been £897 per year. 
PFL said the critical yields for these options were 30.95% and 24.74% per year respectively, 
making the transfer out clearly something that would need to be considered very carefully 
indeed because these figures implied significant financial disadvantages in her leaving 
OPS1. 
Similarly, for her OPS2 scheme at age 60, the estimated annual pension was £4,522 per 
year, or £2,907 if taking a tax-free lump sum of £19,382. PFL said the critical yields for these 
options were 22.34% and 14.94% respectively, again demonstrating just how difficult it 
would have been to match what Mrs V already had in her existing OPS schemes. When 
calculating the critical yield figures for accessing these pensions earlier than 60, the figures 
were even higher. 
As well as the critical yield, PFLs suitability report also provided a further demonstration of 
just how much extra Mrs V would have to pay on the open market to match the DB 
schemes she was already in. In the case of the OPS1 scheme PFL said shed have to find 
over £37,000 to replicate the financial benefits of that pension, and for the larger OPS2 
pension, around £116,000 would be required. 
Further to these things, the relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given 
which I can refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before October 2017 and was 3.0% per year for 4 years to retirement. Anything above the 
discount rate is likely to be harder to achieve. And for further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection growth rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year. 
So, I think its fair to say all these things should have stood out as major risks, showing how 
comparatively much worse off Mrs V would be, from a financial viability perspective, by 
transferring out of OPS1 and OPS2 to a personal pension.  I think its also fair to say these 
risks were evident in PFLs own suitability report. 
I see PFL also assessed Mrs Vs attitude to risk (ATR) as high-medium and her capacity for 
loss as medium. However, Ive looked carefully at her circumstances of that time and all the 
questions she answered, and I think PFL mis-judged this - everything Ive seen tends to 
show she was not an experienced investor, and she only had modest financial assets. 
Documents from the time show that Mrs V had said that she wasnt a confident investor. She 
also preferred (investment) certainty and would tend to invest only around once a year, if 
that. I also think her capacity for loss was low, rather than medium, given the sum of the 
assets she had.
So, simply put, I think Mrs Vs deferred OPSs were at their most valuable in their existing 
form and PFLs suitability report itself acknowledged the critical yields to be very high. This 
meant that matching her two OPSs with an open market product wasnt realistically 
achievable. Taking these things into account, along with the composition of assets in the 
discount rate, Mrs Vs ATR and also the term to retirement, there would be little point in her 
giving up the guarantees and benefits available to her through her two DB schemes only to 
achieve poorer levels of benefits outside those schemes. In her case, transferring out was 
therefore clearly not a good option financially.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think its entirely clear that Mrs V yet had concrete retirement plans at the time the 
advice was given. Mrs V was only 55 years old and the advice was predicated largely on her 
accessing tax-free cash to help renovate her overseas property, rather than her future 
retirement income needs. 
I also think that when looking together at both the fact-find and suitability report prepared by 
PFL for Mrs V, these too painted an unclear picture. In my view, the conclusion to draw from 
both these documents is that PFL didnt really know how Mrs V intended to take her pension benefits. For instance, on the issue of where Mrs V wanted to spend her retirement, the 
latter document was unclear despite this probably being an important factor to her retirement 
income needs. The report says she did not intend to move abroad but it also later says she 
might spend the majority of her time overseas. It also talks about Mrs V taking tax-free cash 
directly upon transferring out but with leaving the remainder sum(s) invested; elsewhere 
however, it is implied that she may have a need to drawdown more cash quite soon to 
supplement her income. 
Mrs V was also said at the time to have had two job interviews already arranged with the 
intention of earning around £20,000 per year so the hope was that she would soon regain 
employment and have some earnings very soon. With this in mind, I think its fair to say 
Mrs Vs immediate plans involved working, probably full time (or close to it), rather than 
retiring. 
I therefore dont think it was possible to say Mrs V required flexibility to draw income from 
her pension savings at that point as was mentioned in the suitability report. I think her 
retirement plans were fluid, realistically referring to sometime in the considerable future. 
The suitability report went on to offer 5 options as regards her pensions:
to remain with the OPS1 scheme and start taking benefits at the age of 60
remain with OPS1 and start taking benefits immediately, at around the age of 56
remain within the OPS2 scheme and start taking benefits at the age of 60
remain with OPS2 and start taking benefits immediately, at around the age of 56
to transfer-out both DB pensions to a personal pension, to then access the maximum 
tax-free elements from each scheme and then leave the remainder of the funds 
invested until up to the age of 67
PFL advised the latter of these options and thus the transfer out took place. However, 
although other options around her DB pensions were mentioned in the report, these were 
not promoted enough. I think its reasonable to say Mrs V had sought advice in the hope that 
she would be helped to understand the risks and complexities - after all, the evidence here is 
that she was inexperienced in these types of financial matters. So, PFL mentioning a risk, 
and then moving on from fully explaining it and giving advice, does not abrogate any of its 
responsibilities as her adviser.
The principal rationale given by PFL for taking the option to transfer out of OPS1 and OPS2 
was the immediate access to tax-free cash to help fund repairs to Mrs and Mr Vs home 
abroad. I agree that renovating the house was no doubt an aspiration for Mrs V. But in my 
view, I also think its important to point out that Mrs V didnt have much more than OPS1 and 
OPS2 by way of future retirement income. So, these formed a large part of her being able to 
stop working and they both came with guarantees and benefits found only predominantly in 
such schemes. Her state pension payable at the age of 67 was still over a decade away and 
I also think it would have been reasonable for PFL to have made more meaningful enquiries 
into Mr Vs financial circumstances  although I note brief mention was made of a possible 
pension.
The suitability report went on to provide a series of cash flow models. PFL implies that 
these demonstrated how Mrs Vs financial retirement plans might have been viable over a 
number of years if she took up the recommendation to transfer out and Ive considered this 
carefully. However, I disagree with PDL about these models. In comparing them with Mrs Vs 
OPSs in turn, I think these merely showed her transferred-out funds would have been 
exhausted relatively quickly. In short, the cash flow models simply add more evidence to 
transferring out of OPS 1 and OPS2 being an unsuitable recommendation for her.
Mindful of these uncertainties, I went on to think about what Mrs Vs retirement needs would 
be. She had said that in retirement she probably needed £600 - £800 per month to live on. However, at 67, the age mentioned by her as potentially retiring, I think this would have been 
achievable with her existing DB pensions which could still have been accessed early to take 
tax-free cash from, thus achieving most of what she wanted in renovating her overseas 
home. I understand this may have required up to £25,000 to fully finish it, however Mrs V 
told us the immediate priority was more to get it liveable by fitting a bathroom because it 
didnt have one. 
So, I think it was entirely possible for Mrs Vs aspirations for her home abroad to be largely 
met, by prioritising what needed to be done and whilst still keeping an eye on her future 
retirement needs. Her pensions were modest - but the deferred benefits already enabled her 
to meet her target income when topping up her state pension at 67. 
PFLs suitability report set out some options that were akin to this, but which were not 
recommended. However, considering everything Mrs V wanted to achieve, I think other 
options represented much better choices for her. In my view, these related to her accessing 
her two existing DB pensions early, at the age of 56, rather than transferring them both out 
to a private pension. In this case, there would certainly be some reductions in her longer-
term defined benefits, but she would still have been able to access some immediate tax-free 
cash, have a small pension income from OPS1 and OPS2 and use her anticipated salary  
all until her preferred retirement at the age of around 67, when shed get her state pension. 
For OPS1, tax-free cash of £5,194 could be accessed at the age of 56 with an annual 
pension of £779. And for accessing OPS2 early, a tax-free element of £14,363 and an 
annual pension of £2,174 was achievable at 56. In both cases certain death benefits of 50% 
were retained, which Ive noted were important considerations for her, and both were index-
linked.
On the evidence Ive seen therefore, I dont think theres enough to say it was in Mrs Vs best 
interests to access tax-free cash specifically by transferring out of OPS1 and OPS2 to a 
personal pension plan. Mrs V already had the opportunity to access tax-free cash (almost 
£20,000) from within her two DB schemes, even at the age of 56. She would then have had 
almost £3,000 per year index-linked income. She was also intending on working again and 
there is a suggestion Mr V may have had some income  all of which would have helped 
address the short-to-medium term financial aspirations they had around fixing-up their home 
abroad. And as PFL itself highlighted, retaining her rainy day fund as much as possible  
her £15,000 in cash savings - was a sensible thing to do.
In short, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for her to give these two DB pension 
schemes up when she couldnt really know what her circumstances and needs in retirement 
would yet be. 
Death benefits
Death benefits can be an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension plan were most likely an attractive feature to Mrs V. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits were important to her - and she might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer her DB schemes to a personal pension because of this - the priority here 
was to advise her about what was best for her retirement provisions. 
Mrs V also told us that the issue of death benefits was not fully explained to her by PFL and 
she was led to believe transferring out was the only way to pass these on. But the spouses 
pension provided by the two DB schemes would have been useful and important to Mr V if 
Mrs V predeceased him. However, PFL seems to have discounted this largely on the basis 
that Mr V was nine years her senior.  Overall I dont think this mattered to the degree PFL 
said and it didnt make the value of the existing death benefit clear enough to Mrs V. These 
benefits were guaranteed and not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. Summary
In my view, the recommendation Mrs V was given in relation to transferring out of the two DB 
schemes (OPS1 and OPS2) substantially underplayed the risks of giving up a secure 
income(s) with the guarantees and benefits Ive referred to. It wasnt suitable advice.
As Ive demonstrated above, the chances of Mrs V achieving growth rates which could have 
matched the financial benefits of her existing schemes was very unlikely. The advice 
overlooked this.
The recommendation also failed to take enough account of the other retirement options 
available to Mrs V, whilst still preserving the important benefits from her existing schemes. I 
completely understand how Mrs V would have found the prospect of some additional tax-free 
cash at the age of around 56 to be appealing, particularly as she had a desire to carry out 
some renovations on her property abroad. However, the advice took insufficient notice of 
what she was giving up to achieve this and the fact that she could already draw tax-free 
cash from her existing schemes, very close to the amount she needed.
Finally, the issues of flexibility and consolidation were exaggerated by PFL. The former 
was poorly defined and not needed by Mrs V, in my view. The latter was largely irrelevant 
since Mrs Vs existing pension schemes required very little input from her and were run by 
trustees.
I am therefore upholding Mrs Vs complaint and in doing so Id like to emphasise that I have 
considered what PFL now says: that her investments have subsequently performed quite 
well since the transfer. This may be the case, but this isnt relevant to what was going on at 
the time of the advice. In particular I think it fails to consider what Mrs V was advised to give 
up. 
I have also now considered the issue made on Mrs Vs behalf of when she would probably 
have accessed her DB schemes if she hadnt transferred out. Im sticking to my view that 
this would have been at the age of 56 for the reasons Ive explained. Accessing some cash 
at 56 is what Mrs V considered a major priority at the time.
I therefore think PFL failed in its duty when providing regulated advice to Mrs V. I havent 
seen persuasive reasons why she needed to transfer out of her two DB schemes. The 
evidence points the other way.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs V, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for PFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs V would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. Given her 
wish to raise money, and her access to her benefits, I think that its more likely than not that 
Mrs V would have accessed her deferred benefits in line with the quotes given for age 56. 
PFL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs V has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her having taken her deferred benefits at the age of 56, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Vs acceptance of the decision.
PFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Vs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Vs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Vs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs V as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Destress and Inconvenience - Our investigator recommended PFL should be required to pay 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I have considered this and take note that 
PFL repeatedly failed to begin an investigation into the complaint, citing that Mrs V had 
withdrawn it when in fact she had not. It failed to promptly supply a business file allowing an 
investigation to commence, so I agree that an award of £250 is appropriate. In my view, 
these actions and inactions caused Mrs V distress and considerable delays as she had to re-
iterate several times that her complaint was one she wanted to pursue.
To be clear, PFL must pay £250 for distress and inconvenience in addition to the pension 
redress. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs V within 90 days of the date PFL receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PFL to pay Mrs V.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Im now upholding this complaint and require Pi Financial 
Limited (PFL) to pay Mrs V the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
PFL to pay Mrs V any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PFL to 
pay Mrs V any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PFL pays Mrs V the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs V. If Mrs V accepts this decision, the money 
award becomes binding on PFL.
My recommendation would not be binding if she doesnt accept. Further, its unlikely that Mrs V can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs V may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept 
this final decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman