DRN-2967844
The complaint
Mrs A is represented by her son, Mr A in bringing the complaint. He says she has been 
misadvised by an adviser from St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) in respect 
of her investment portfolio which began in 2006. 
To resolve her complaint, Mrs A wants to be refunded advice fees for the period of the 
advice, along with SJP making good the losses she has suffered.   
What happened
From 2017, Mr A began managing Mrs As portfolio on her behalf, and he switched the 
majority of her holdings into the SJP Money Market Fund (MMF). As a result of Mr As 
involvement, Mrs A also switched advisers, from Mr F to Ms S. 
Thereafter, a series of correspondence was exchanged over several months where Mrs A 
raised concerns about the advice shed received throughout her relationship with SJP. 
In November 2018, Mrs A complained. Mr A, on Mrs As behalf said, in summary:
after reviewing matters with her son, it was now clear that SJP should have told her 
to invest in a pension, not bonds and a unit trust; 
Mrs A could have offset part of her salary into a pension for many years;
SJP had failed to assist her with utilising her ISA in the previous five years;
the adviser didnt properly advise Mrs A regarding the markets, and the funds chosen 
for her investments presented too much risk.
It was also noted that Mrs A needed guidance on an advice option going forward (as she 
had been left without an adviser). Mr A said advice fees from August 2017 onwards should 
be refunded  Mrs A was paying £2,150 per year for a service she wasnt getting. Also, Mrs 
A wanted to withdraw the funds, and Mr A contended that SJP ought to assist with this in a 
tax efficient manner. 
SJP partially upheld the complaint. It issued a final response letter to Mrs A in April 2019. It 
noted the advice relationship with the initial adviser had fallen away in late 2017, after Mr A 
became involved in his mothers finances. 
It explained that at each occasion of advice (those being initial advice in 2006, and ongoing 
advice periodically to July 2014) it was satisfied that Mrs A had been provided with sufficient 
information to allow her to make a fully informed decision. Mrs A had not wanted to discuss 
pension planning and therefore the adviser did not pursue this.  
However, SJP did accept that between 2011 and 2017 Mrs A hadnt utilised her ISA 
allowances, despite discussions with the adviser about doing so from her surplus income. It 
concluded she missed the opportunity to fund her ISA in the 2011/12 to 2016/17 tax years 
(excluding 2014/15) depriving Mrs A of the tax efficient environment available through ISA 
investments. 
It calculated a total of £63,720 of available ISA subscriptions missed during the relevant 
dates and confirmed it recognised all the funds held in Mrs As unit trust would now be in her 
ISAs had she maximised these subscriptions. It went on to calculate the tax saving Mrs A 
would have achieved had the funds been moved to the ISAs at the relevant dates, factoring 
in income tax, growth, and capital gains tax liability. It provided a breakdown of its calculation 
to Mrs A and confirmed the loss of tax efficiency Mrs A should have benefited from (if her 
capital had been correctly transferred to an ISA) came to £3,017.26. It offered to round this 
up to £3,100.  
SJP told Mrs A that she did not have any early withdrawal charges on her funds, as queried 
by Mr A. It also confirmed that Ms S no longer wished to continue advising Mrs A. At the 
date of the letter, SJP had not been able to find Mrs A another adviser. 
Finally, it offered Mrs A £900 for the delay in answering her complaint, bringing the total 
redress to £4,000.  
Mr A said Mrs A remained unhappy and they hadnt accepted the offer. Mr A said the claim 
that Mrs A wanted access to her capital  and therefore bonds were proposed  was untrue. 
Mrs A was only eight years from possible retirement in 2006, she had no mortgage and was 
earning £92,000 per year. She had £500,000 of equity in her house, which could have been 
remortgaged if needed. She didnt make withdrawals and added to the investments in most 
years with her surplus income. 
Mr A referred to a meeting in 2017 where he felt compensation should be awarded as the 
adviser hadnt acted in Mrs As best interests and taken immediate steps to reduce her risk 
exposure. He also said Mrs A felt the offer of £900 for distress was significantly undervalued.  
Mr A also said that access to capital via the bond wasnt true as it was restricted beyond 5% 
per annum  which in his and Mrs As view is a negligible sum if the money had been 
needed for emergencies. He said that ultimately, Mrs A did not need capital or restrictions so 
close to retirement and a pension should have been advised.
The complaint was brought to this service in 2020, and it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She noted Mrs A had no recorded disposable income from 2014 onwards, at 
which time she was nearing retirement. She had no pension provisions and no ability to 
make up investment losses. 
Our investigator believed the complaint should succeed. She said it was clear to her that Mrs 
A had a very limited financial understanding and she didnt have the capacity to appreciate 
some of the advice she had received. In summary she said she felt the adviser ought to 
have discussed reducing Mrs As exposure to risk overall. And by 2017 she didnt think it 
was suitable for the majority of Mrs As investments to be in higher risk funds.  
She also said, in summary that:
there was no justification for Mrs As recorded attitude to risk being medium;
the funds chosen for the investment bond had too high of an exposure to equities;
contrastingly, the advice in 2008 was for a low risk gilts fund, yet Mrs As risk 
classification wasnt recorded to have changed;
this then conflicted with the 2010 advice to invest in a medium risk fund, and in 2011, 
a medium/high risk fund;
information gathering on certain occasions was out of date.  Her view was that SJP should compensate Mrs A up to August 2017 and not beyond that 
date because from that point Mr A had taken over the operation of the portfolio. She also 
believed it should include fees from 2014 in that compensation.  
In respect of Mrs As concerns about pension advice, the investigator didnt think that SJP 
needed to do anything further. She felt it was reasonable for the adviser to limit his advice to 
investments because Mrs A had expressly declined advice about pensions. 
Likewise, she felt SJPs offer in respect of Mrs As missed ISA allowances was fair in the 
circumstances. There wasnt an established pattern of investing from the unit trust and Mrs A 
had utilised her allowance herself on at least one other occasion. Nonetheless she believed 
Mrs A would have funded her ISA but for the adviser failing to do so. She also thought SJP 
should facilitate Mrs A in using her 2020/21 ISA allowance. 
Our investigator didnt think SJP ought to compensate Mrs A for a loss flowing from the 2017 
meeting (£5,500 as suggested by Mr A) because no such loss happened after Mr A switched 
her investment portfolio into the MMF. Nor did she think it had behaved unfairly in relation to 
a reinvestment from the MMF in 2018. 
Mr A made many further submissions in different emails. He said he couldnt understand our 
investigators reasoning as to why pension advice wasnt given by SJP. In his view the 
adviser had been led by commission and she hadnt addressed that. His view was that she 
had paid a 5% fee on every sale, 10% on the bond and £180,000 in tax which could have 
been avoided with the advice to take out a pension. He said the majority of the investigators 
view was contradictory and Mrs A wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to alter her findings. She said unless a person is prepared 
to discuss pension planning, she wouldnt expect an adviser to compare the benefits of 
pensions versus investment wrappers. Had Mrs A expressed an interest in pension planning 
then she would have expected the adviser to discuss those options with her. Mrs A was 
recorded as wanting advice on investments only.  
On Mr As point about the commission paid, this was accounted for the in the redress 
method she set out as this service asks the business to calculate the loss of growth on the 
entire amount that was invested. She otherwise felt that the £900 compensation for upset 
was appropriate in the circumstances.  
Mr A said he felt the benchmark used by this service was wildly inaccurate. He said SJP is 
worth billions of pounds and he questions how and why this service accepted that £900 
compensation is appropriate. Finally, he remained of the view that if the investment had 
been discussed in terms of the relevant tax wrappers, pensions advice would or should have 
arisen. He noted how SJPs website clearly says that its advice covers financial, investment 
and tax planning  of which pensions advice would be a reasonable inclusion.  
SJP also had some further comments. It said whilst it accepted there was an absence of 
explanation in some of the suitability letters for Mrs As risk profile, it took the view that 
holistically, Mrs As risk profile of medium was met across all the plans and all the selected 
funds. Furthermore, Mr A hadnt actually complained about this specifically.  
SJP referred to another ombudsmans decision in a different case where the ombudsman 
set out how it was not the role of the investigator or ombudsman to risk rate funds. This 
service should look at whether the recommendations were generally suitable.  
It feels it should have stopped charging an ongoing advice fee from 2019, when SJP was 
unable to find a new suitable adviser for Ms A. But as a goodwill gesture it was willing to return any ongoing advice fees from 21 November 2018  the date Mrs A complained.  
SJP disputed it should arrange to assist Mrs A with her 2020/21 ISA allowance, as this 
request was sent on 23 April 2020 but it was addressed with the email from the adviser of 30 
April 2020 where Mrs A was informed that ongoing advice fee would be switched off, after a 
further adviser Mr B had declined to liaise with Mr A. It said the email told Mrs A that her 
plans would be moved to a Head Office service code. 
SJP believed Mrs A knew nothing had taken place in relation to her ISA subscription for 
2020/2021 because the adviser never confirmed he actioned the request (given his decision 
to withdraw) and because SJP never sent papers to Mrs A to confirm it had been done.
The complaint was then passed for an ombudsman to review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I recognise that Mr A has gone to a considerable effort and made extensive submissions 
both to this service and to SJP. Though I have reviewed everything before me, I wont be 
addressing each point raised by Mr A on behalf of Mrs A. My remit is to make findings on 
what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I will include what I believe to be the key issues in this complaint. Having done so, I also 
believe this complaint should be upheld in part and will summarise my conclusions below.  
Firstly, though Mr A wishes otherwise, I cant consider redress for what he and Mrs A now 
contend is the failure of SJP to provide pension advice  and that is because our service 
cannot consider every aspect of a complaint before it.  
I am bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. I am not able to avoid them or apply discretion to 
certain rules. 
A specific rule, DISP rule 2.3.1 R, says that an ombudsman can consider a complaint under 
the jurisdiction of this service (to which SJP is compulsorily subject) if it relates to an act or 
omission by a business in carrying out one of a number of listed activities or ancillary 
activities including advice carried on in connection with the regulated activities, such as 
advising on investments and managing investments.  
Mr A argues that no advice was given when it should have been provided. The evidence 
SJP has provided regarding the material times of advice documents that Mrs A did not want 
to discuss pension arrangements. 
I dont believe that the failure to review Mrs As pension arrangements is a regulated activity. 
DISP 2.3.1 R provides a number of regulated activities as they relate to personal pensions, 
but these are solely predicated on the provision of advice. A complaint about an absence of 
advice does not fall within our jurisdiction. Instead, Ive reviewed the advice given for the 
recommendations into the various investments and the ongoing management of the same.  
At the time of the first meeting with Mr G, Mrs A agreed to take out an investment bond (reference ending #H71) into which an initial £4,000 was placed on 23 May 2006. Further 
investments were placed into the bond following advice from Mr G of £24,753 on 19 July 
2006, £5,000 on 10 March 2007 £5,000 on 15 October 2008 and £25,000 on 15 May 2009.  
Another bond (reference ending #E75) was taken out on 25 September 2007 with an initial 
investment of £60,000. A further £25,000 was added to the investment in January 2011.  
Mrs A also made contributions to her ISA of £7,000 at the first meeting, £7,000 in September 
2007, £7,200 in May 2009, £10,200 in June 2010, and £11,250 in July 2014.  
Finally she invested £4,000 into the unit trust at the first meeting, and an additional 
investment of £53,000 in September 2007. 
In 2006, Mrs A was recorded as being self-employed with an income of £91,500. She had a 
net disposable income of £4,125 per month. She also had a home valued at £500,000, and 
monetary assets of £159,000 made up of £50,000 in an Investment Bond, £5,000 in an ISA, 
£5,000 in a PEP, £15,000 in stocks and shares, £67,000 in savings accounts, £15,000 in 
personal assets and £2000 in a cash account. Mrs A had no mortgage or other liabilities.  
Further fact find information was gathered in 2007, 2010 and 2011 where though Mrs As 
disposable income had reduced each month, it hadnt dropped below £3,000. However, by 
2014, this had changed. Mrs As income had reduced and she had no disposable income. 
Mrs A restricted her actions at this time to funding her ISA, as she had £300,000 of cash 
savings.   
After the first meeting, the recommendations for the first bond, unit trust and ISA were 
proposed. Mrs A was recorded as having a medium approach to risk. SJPs documentation 
showed the definition for medium risk proposed funds invested in a balanced spread of 
equities along with fixed interest securities, property and cash  yet the proposed funds had 
a limited balance of this nature. 
I dont believe the recommendations were unsuitable of themselves insofar as the types of 
investments considered for Mrs A. At the material times of the advice. It seems to me, on 
balance, that Mrs A wanted to place her capital into investments where there was a greater 
possibility of achieving higher returns. I say this since Mrs A signed relevant documentation 
confirming she had received appropriate recommendations based on her needs.  
Mrs A had sufficient means, without liabilities or dependants, to take a risk of the nature set 
out by the recommendations. I believe on balance that Mrs A likely wanted to go ahead with 
her combined investments and that on the information Ive seen, she was in agreement with 
the chosen types of investment in the circumstances noting her financial situation and 
recorded investment objectives.
However, I also take the view that I dont think Mrs A was able to appreciate the particular 
risks her investments entailed. And Im not satisfied that Mrs A appreciated or understood 
that she would (for the most part) be taking a medium to high risk, or what that meant for 
her. I say that taking into account her circumstances, predominantly her age and anticipation 
to cease working within ten years. Further, a the most recent summary of the investment 
holdings before Mr A began advocating for Mrs A, only 35% of the overall holdings were in 
low or limited risk asset classes  and by the time, Mrs A had no realistic means of 
recouping any losses she may suffer from market volatility. 
I have considered the reasons for the investments but, overall and considering her 
circumstances, putting Mrs A in a position where approximately 65% of her investment 
holdings were dependent on risk based assets, her lack of disposable income in later years and noting the points Mr A has made about tax and capital reduction, I agree that overall this 
wasnt suitable advice. 
I dont believe Mr G undertook sufficient consideration of Mrs As needs (including her 
financial circumstances, particular requirements, attitude to risk and capacity to bear a 
financial loss) to reach a proper conclusion about her requirements, given the specific nature 
of her self-employment and future position whereby Mrs A had no disposable income. 
As our investigator has highlighted, some of the advice Mr G gave did not sufficiently 
account for Mrs As actual circumstances, for example, he gave advice in both 2008 and 
2009 using fact find information gathered from 2007. It would have been prudent of Mr G to 
obtain up to date information, and I cant see clear evidence that Mrs As attitude to risk was 
revisited either. 
Taking everything in the round, I believe the complaint aspect about the suitability of the 
ongoing advice and recommendations in the context of risk should be upheld.  
It isnt possible to say precisely what Mrs A would have otherwise done. I believe its most 
likely she would still have gone ahead with the investment recommendations, but where 
these a more balanced approached to risk. I note Mr A has some concerns about the 
redress this service uses on that basis  but this approach takes a mix of diversified indices
representing different asset classes and is the most appropriate in a scenario where a 
complainant wanted to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I have seen no objective reason why I ought to disregard the method of comparison and I 
believe it an appropriate means of calculating if any redress is due to Mrs A. I also agree that 
the loss calculation should run to 2017, when Mr A became involved in his mothers 
investments. I say that because Mr A has gone into particular detail with our investigator of 
his experience in the financial services industry and it was at this point he requested that the 
majority of Mrs As holdings be moved into the MMF.  
In respect of the advice fees, my view is that these should be refunded from August 2014 
onwards  the previous month was the point at which there was no further advice provided 
to Mrs A until the complaint and adviser change of 2018  and SJP has agreed to a refund of 
the fees from that date in any event.   
I also agree that SJP ought to make good the missed ISA allowance for 2020/21 and I have 
addressed this in my redress statement below.  
Finally, I leave Mrs A to decide whether the offer of £4,000 put to her for the previous missed 
ISA subscriptions and the figure for trouble and upset she has been caused is acceptable. 
I trust SJP will provide this to Mrs A if she accepts it, as it has confirmed as such. My view 
on that offer is that it is fair in all of the circumstances to account for the failure to invest the 
funds in the ISA wrappers for the relevant tax years. Further, the sum of £900 is within the 
range of awards this service would make where SJP has caused substantial distress, upset 
and worry including serious disruption to daily life over a long term period.  
  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs A 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice. I take the view that Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should SJP do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, SJP must:
Compare the performance of Mrs A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Repay the advisers fees from August 2014 onwards together with simple interest at 
8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above 
comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the 
actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Portfolio of 
investments 
(IB#H71), 
(IB#E75), 
(ISA#937), 
(UT#994)still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs A wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs A's circumstances and risk attitude.
I also direct SJP to uphold its commitment in its final response letter to automatically look to 
maximise the ISA allowances available to Mrs A using the funds available within the 
portfolio. To that end, it should have assisted her in placing £19,152 remaining in her unit 
trust fund into her ISA for the 2020/21 tax year  and it did not do so. 
SJP must therefore should move the remaining funds as promised and liaise with HMRC to 
determine whether its possible to backdate the ISA subscription to 2020/21. If this isnt 
possible then SJP must undertake a missed ISA allowance calculation for the period that this 
money has been outside an ISA wrapper, and pay the redress due. SJP should provide a 
breakdown of its calculations to Mrs A as it did for the other missed tax years.  
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that St Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc should pay Mrs A the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 plus any interest set out above. 
St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mrs A 
in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc pays Mrs A the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind St Jamess 
Place Wealth Management Plc. It is unlikely that Mrs A can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mrs A may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman