DRN-3251974
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs C was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had 
covered around 51,000 miles.
Mrs C experienced some issues with the car. the engine management light illuminated and 
there was a fault with the gearbox. The car was returned to the supplying dealer, who 
arranged for a specialist to replace the gearbox. Mrs C was provided with a courtesy car 
whilst the repairs were carried out.
In November 2020 Mrs C raised a complaint about the repairs. She said there were oil 
marks and plastic parts left in the car, and she hadnt received the logbook. In response, 
Moneybarn said it wasnt responsible for the service provided by the dealership but offered 
to cover the cost of a valet. It said the logbook had been sent to DVLA by the dealership.
In July 2021 Mrs C experienced further issues with the car. Following a breakdown, Mrs C 
obtained a report which showed diagnostic codes relating to the engine. The car had a new 
battery fitted. Mrs C complained to Moneybarn. She said the car was undriveable.
In August 2021 Mrs C settled the finance agreement. She remained unhappy with the quality 
of the car and asked Moneybarn to cover the cost of repairs or take the car back and refund 
her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said the car had a gearbox fault at the point of supply and that 
despite the repairs, she thought the same fault had occurred again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car, such 
as that supplied to Mrs C, to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car, as opposed to a fault caused by 
general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If 
the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.
An independent inspection can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. There hasnt been an independent inspection of Mrs Cs car, so Ive looked 
at the other available information.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car had a gearbox fault soon after Mrs C took 
possession of it. The supplying dealer arranged for repairs to be carried out, which is what 
Id expect it to do under the relevant legislation. Mrs C has said that when she got the car 
back it worked as expected. But she said that by July 2021 the car broke down, and she 
thinks the same fault has reoccurred.
Ive looked at the breakdown report. This records the mileage as 73,664., meaning that Mrs 
C had covered 22,568 miles since the point of supply, a period of around 17 months. Given 
that Mrs C was using a courtesy car for several months whilst waiting for the gearbox to be 
repaired, I think the car has covered significantly more than average mileage. And I think, 
given the mileage covered and the length of time Mrs C used the car before it broke down in 
July 2021, that its likely that the repairs carried out to the gearbox were successful. If the 
repairs hadnt been successful, I would have expected issues to have occurred soon after 
the car was returned to Mrs C after the repair, particularly given the level of mileage being 
covered by the car.
The breakdown report dated July 2021 states that there is an engine diagnostic code and 
that a new battery was fitted. Theres no diagnosis of a fault. Because the breakdown 
occurred more than 6 months after the point of supply, under the relevant legislation its up to 
Mrs C to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, or that the 
repairs werent successful. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that Mrs C 
has shown this. There isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman