DRN-4428884
The complaint
Mr G has complained that esure Insurance Limited wrongly reduced the amount it would pay 
him for the total loss of his car under his motor insurance policy. This was because it said 
there was some pre-accident damage on his car. 
What happened
Mr G was involved in a car accident, which wasnt his fault. He made a claim on his motor 
policy to esure, given his car was badly damaged in the accident. Esure agreed to pay him 
the market value of his car as the damage was too great to repair it. When it was 
investigating the value of Mr Gs car, it said his car had some pre-accident damage on it. 
And it said that would reduce the value of Mr Gs car. 
Esure then said this pre-accident damage would have cost £1,597 to repair. But because it 
could use preferential rates it would only deduct £532 from the cars value instead. Mr G 
didnt think there was any pre-accident damage on his car so he didnt think anything should 
be deducted by esure.
Initially esure offered Mr G £2,800 for his car, but Mr G didnt think that was enough. Then it 
offered £3,020. Mr G didnt agree this was enough either. However, esure sent a cheque to 
Mr G for this amount on 3 May 2023.  Mr G didnt cash this cheque so esure have now 
cancelled it. 
As he was unhappy, Mr G brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought esures 
valuation of Mr Gs car was reasonable. She also thought it had shown there was some pre-
accident damage on Mr Gs car. And she thought the amount esure deducted for this 
damage was fair, given it was far less than it could have been. So, she didnt think esure had 
to do anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Given Mr Gs car was so badly damaged in the accident I think its right esure wanted to pay 
Mr G for the market value of his car. However, esure said there was some damage on Mr 
Gs car which wasnt caused in the accident. And esure have shown that to us. 
Existing damage
It said the damage was the following:
Offside (drivers side) damage  Large dent in rear door. Dent and scrape to side panel dog 
leg. Both alloys curbed.
Front end  Chips all over bonnet and bumper.
Nearside (passenger side) damage  Scuff to bumper and side panel
Engine/Mechanical condition  Engine light on dash.
I think esure could have detailed this out much better in its documents, so it was clearer for 
both Mr G and indeed us to see and understand, but nevertheless I do think esure has 
shown there was this damage which wasnt caused in the accident. 
Deduction of cost of repairs
When this happens, insurers like esure are allowed to deduct the cost of the repair of this 
sort of damage from the amount its going to pay Mr G for the value of the car. 
Ive looked at what esure said it would cost to repair this damage. It said it would cost 
£1,597. But it reduced that further saying it would only deduct £532 from the cars value 
instead. I think this is fair as its to Mr Gs advantage as he gets more for the value of his car 
from esure. 
Vehicle valuation
Insurers value cars by looking at the valuation guides as these show the amount cars are 
sold for. This meant it valued Mr Gs car at £3,552 and it deducted £532 for the pre-accident 
damage not caused in the accident. So that means the total payable to Mr G is £3,020. 
The investigator also looked at the valuation guides and she could see that esure had put a 
reasonable and fair value on Mr Gs car. So, Im satisfied esure wanted to pay a proper 
amount for the value of Mr Gs car. 
Replacement cheque
Esure sent a cheque to Mr G in May 2023 for £3,020, however sadly Mr G didnt cash it. So, 
Ive asked esure to cancel it as the bank wouldnt accept the cheque now. But Im going to 
ask them to reissue the cheque and send it to Mr G. This should be sent to Mr G regardless 
of whether Mr G accepts this decision. This is because esure sent this cheque to Mr G 
before Mr G brought his complaint to us. 
So, because Ive decided that esure did pay Mr G a fair and reasonable amount for the value 
of his car, I dont think esure needs to do anything else. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint, other than 
esure should reissue and post the cheque of £3,020 to Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman