DRN-2241121
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) treated him when his 
mortgage account fell into arrears and the term of his interest only mortgage expired. He 
asks for time to sell his property and compensation for the way hes been treated.
What happened
Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2008. In 2017 Mr B told Halifax he 
was out of work and struggling with his monthly mortgage payments. His mortgage account 
fell into arrears and the term expired in March 2020 with an unpaid balance. Mr B says 
Halifax didnt help him when he was in financial difficulties, it harassed and bullied him about 
his arrears and he cant repay the mortgage balance.
Our investigator said Halifax had considered Mr Bs circumstances to see what support it 
could offer. He was struggling to maintain monthly interest only payments and a payment 
arrangement wasnt affordable. A payment holiday or term extension was unlikely to help. 
Halifax offered to hold recovery action while Mr B sought independent financial advice and, 
after the term expired, said it would give him time to sell the property. The investigator said 
this was fair.
Mr B didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs mortgage account fell into arrears, due to financial difficulties. His mortgage term has 
expired with an unpaid balance. Mr B says he knows hell have to sell his house to repay the 
mortgage. He wants Halifax to give him time to do this. 
The first part of Mr Bs complaint is that Halifax harassed and bullied him when he was in 
financial difficulties and unable to maintain payments. 
Once it became aware of Mr Bs financial difficulties, Halifax had to treat him fairly and 
consider what concessions it could offer. It had to take Mr Bs circumstances into account 
when doing so. 
Mr B says he found telephone calls with Halifax upsetting and too long. And after providing 
income and expenditure information to Halifax he wasnt offered a payment holiday. His 
expenditure exceeded his income and a payment plan wasnt affordable. 
From mid-2019 Mr B was able to pay enough to cover his monthly interest and a payment 
towards his arrears. Halifax says Mr B didnt contact it to update his income and expenditure 
details. It sent a field agent but didnt charge Mr B for this. Mr B said pursuing him for arrears 
was pointless, given his mortgage term would expire the following year and hed have to sell 
the property to repay it.
I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to ask Mr B about his circumstances. It had to take 
Mr Bs circumstances into account when considering if it could offer a concession to help him 
get his mortgage on track. Id expect it to review this on a regular basis, as a customers 
circumstances can change. And Mr Bs circumstances did change. In 2017 he was out of 
work. He started a business in 2018 and was hopeful things would improve from Spring 
2019. And in mid-2019 he was able to increase the amount he paid each month. In 2020 his 
term expired and I think Halifax was right to ask him about his plans to repay the mortgage. 
Mr B found talking to Halifax upsetting, and Im sorry this didnt result in a concession being 
agreed. Ive listened to some of the calls in 2019 and I dont think Halifax was bullying or 
inappropriate in how it dealt with Mr B during these calls. 
I understand why Mr B says it was pointless for Halifax to contact him about his arrears 
when hed have to sell the property when the term expired in March 2020. But it doesnt 
seem from what hes said that he was marketing the property for sale in 2019. So I dont 
think I can fairly say that Halifax should have put contact on hold pending repayment from 
sale of the property. 
While I appreciate that receiving letters about arrears upset Mr B, I must take into account 
that Halifax had to keep him informed about his account, and the possible consequences of 
not maintaining payments. Halifax contacted Mr B regularly, and I understand he found this 
difficult. Overall though, I dont think Halifax treated Mr B unfairly, and I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to pay compensation.
The second part of Mr Bs complaint is that his mortgage term expired, Halifax didnt extend 
the term and he cant repay the balance. Hed like time to sell his property.
I dont think I can fairly require Halifax to give Mr B a term extension or say that it ought to 
have offered this. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules 
that it expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, 
repayment strategy before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. A term extension 
would be a variation of Mr Bs mortgage.
There are exceptions to this which would allow Halifax to vary Mr Bs mortgage despite 
concerns about affordability if it was in Mr Bs best interests to do so. However, Mr B says he 
doesnt have the means to repay the mortgage except by the sale of the property and he 
doesnt expect his circumstances to improve. 
I dont think its clearly in Mr Bs best interests to extend the term. From what Mr B has said 
his property is being marketed for sale at a price which will allow him to repay the mortgage 
and retain a lump sum. Theres no guarantee this would be the case after an extension. Hell 
pay interest in the meantime. If he cant maintain payments, his equity would be reduced. 
Halifax says once its told a property is for sale it usually holds recovery action for six 
months. It put action on hold while Mr Bs complaint is with us. Due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued guidelines to lenders. 
Current guidelines say no-one should have their home repossessed without their agreement 
until after 31 January 2021. 
Mr B should keep Halifax informed about the steps hes taking to sell the property, or 
otherwise repay the mortgage. I must remind Halifax of its duty to treat Mr B fairly. And it 
should of course take any further guidance issued by the regulator into account. But 
ultimately if Mr B isnt able to repay the mortgage it will be entitled to take possession as a 
last resort. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman