DRN-3545639
The complaint
Mr C and Miss W complain that Connells Limited spoke to them inappropriately and caused 
their offer for a property to be rejected when they said they didnt want to take mortgage 
advice from Connells mortgage adviser. They ask for compensation and for Connells to be 
made an example of for its treatment of them and others. 
What happened
Mr C and Miss W had an offer accepted for a house purchase. They say the estate agent 
asked them to meet with its in-house mortgage adviser (who worked for Connells). Mr C and 
Miss W already had a mortgage adviser and only agreed to meet with Connells because the 
estate agent told them it was protocol. 
Mr C and Miss W told Connells they would stay with their own mortgage adviser. They say 
Connells mortgage adviser spoke inappropriately to them and said if they werent going with 
Connells their purchase might fall through. Shortly after this they spoke to the estate agent 
who said the vendor no longer accepted their offer. They say they spoke to the vendor 
directly and found out this wasnt true. 
Connells said its consultant had fairly disclosed to Mr C and Miss W that the vendor wanted 
the assurance that everything will go through and the best way for this to happen was for 
everyone to work together in-house.
Our investigator said we cant look into the actions of the estate agent. She said having 
listened to call recordings Connells mortgage adviser had spoken inappropriately to Miss W 
and Mr C and some of his comments and questions were unfair and unnecessary. She said 
the mortgage adviser put Mr C and Miss W under duress and was unprofessional. Our 
investigator said Connells should pay £150 for the upset this caused.
Connells didnt agree it acted inappropriately or put pressure on Miss W and Mr C to use its 
services. It said Mr C and Miss W recorded calls without the knowledge or consent of its 
staff.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We arent regulators and dont have the 
powers of a regulator. I cant (as Mr C and Miss W ask) make an example of Connells. I can 
look into whether it treated Mr C and Miss W fairly. 
I cant look into Mr C and Miss Ws concerns about the actions of the estate agents. But I 
can consider all evidence that is relevant to a complaint. I think the actions of the estate 
agents provides important context to the comments made by the mortgage adviser and their 
effect on Mr C and Miss W. If thered been no connection between the mortgage adviser and 
the estate agent, the comments made by the mortgage adviser (which I refer to below) 
wouldnt have worried Mr C and Miss W in the same way. And I think the mortgage adviser 
would have been aware of this when he made the comments.
I should say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I also want to 
say that I find the evidence provided by Mr C and Miss W credible and consistent. 
Mr C and Miss W say they were referred to Connells mortgage adviser by the estate agents 
despite saying they already had a mortgage adviser. When they queried why they had to 
meet with the mortgage adviser they say they were told it was protocol. On this basis, Mr C 
and Miss W spoke to Connells mortgage adviser. I think this is most likely what happened, 
given Mr C and Miss W already had a mortgage adviser they were happy with. 
After meeting with Connells mortgage adviser, Mr C and Miss W decided to stay with their 
mortgage adviser.
Mr C and Miss W called the estate agents to ask who they should send a copy of their 
mortgage acceptance letter to. The estate agent said the mortgage adviser. Mr C and Mrs W 
were surprised that theyd need to send a mortgage acceptance letter to another mortgage 
adviser. Nonetheless, the estate agent transferred them to the mortgage adviser. Its this 
discussion that Mr C and Miss W complain about.
Connells says the mortgage adviser wanted Mr C and Miss Ws business but didnt tell them 
they had to use his services or pressure them. Ive listened to the call recording, and I think 
Connells mortgage adviser did speak inappropriately to Mr C and Miss W. 
Mr C and Miss W said theyd decided to stay with their mortgage adviser. Connells 
mortgage adviser questioned this saying he could get them the same deal. Mr C said 
they been dealing with their adviser for a while and hed done a lot of work on their 
behalf. It was Mr C and Miss Ws choice who to take advice from, and they didnt need to 
explain it. Nonetheless, they gave a reasonable explanation and that should have been 
the end of the matter.
The mortgage adviser said he was disappointed with their decision to stay with their 
mortgage adviser and hed gone out of his way for them. I dont think his comment or 
tone was appropriate. Especially as Mr C and Miss W say they only spoke to him for 30 
minutes and then only because they thought they had to.
The mortgage adviser said the vendor wanted Connells assurance everything was going 
through and the best way to achieve this was for everyone to work together. He said if 
Mr C and Miss W didnt feel the same way that was disappointing. I think this comment 
and the tone used were inappropriate. Mr C and Miss W were entitled to choose a 
mortgage adviser and I cant see why this would cause problems with their purchase. In 
fact, it was likely to speed matters up if theyd already provided documents and 
information to their mortgage adviser.
The mortgage adviser said hed go back to the sales manager and say they were 
sticking put, and the vendor would make a decision whether or not to sell the property to 
them. Connells says this is its usual process, but I think suggesting that using their own 
mortgage adviser might cause the vendor to change his mind about selling to them was 
likely to worry Mr C and Miss W. And I cant see why the mortgage adviser would say 
this unless that was his intention.
Mr C and Miss W were worried. They say they spoke to the sales manager shortly after this who said the vendor no longer wanted to sell to them and was looking for higher offers. They 
contacted the vendor directly and say they were told this wasnt true. From what Mr C and 
Miss W have said, matters were sorted out soon after they contacted the vendor directly. 
I can understand why Mr C and Miss W say they felt bullied to take advice from Connells. I 
think they were caused unnecessary worry by its mortgage advisers comments. I think its 
right that Connells pays compensation for this. I think in the circumstances, compensation of 
£150 is fair and reasonable. 
I must be clear that this compensation is only for the upset caused by the comments made 
by Connells mortgage adviser. I cant look into or award compensation in relation to the 
actions of the estate agents.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Connells Limited to pay £150 to Mr C and 
Miss W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman