DRN-4485181
The complaint
Mrs O has complained that TSB Bank plc unfairly declined her request for a mortgage. To 
settle the complaint Mrs O wants TSB to transfer the mortgage on the property into her 
name, to pay compensation and to stop harassing her.
Mrs O is represented in the complaint by Miss C.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mrs O being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
This complaint arises out of sad circumstances  the death of Mrs Os husband in 
January 2022. Under Mr Os Will, Mrs O was made his executor and beneficiary. The 
property where Mr and Mrs O had lived has was in Mr Os name, but has since been 
transferred into Mrs Os name.
Mr O had an interest-only mortgage with TSB, the term of which has now expired. There is a 
balance of about £126,000 outstanding. In a related complaint brought on behalf of the 
estate, I have issued a final decision in which I explained that it is not possible for a 
mortgage to be inherited on the death of the borrower. In that decision I said that Mrs O, as 
executor of the estate, is required by law to settle the mortgage, either by arranging another 
mortgage in her own name, or by a sale of the property.
TSB considered an application by Mrs O for a new mortgage. However, TSB didnt think it 
would be affordable for Mrs O, based on the income details shed provided. As a result, TSB 
wasnt able to offer Mrs O a mortgage.
A complaint was brought to our service by Mrs O, with Miss C representing her. Miss C said 
that Mrs O earns about £6,000 paid in cash from cleaning jobs and that this income is the 
difference between her application being approved or not. 
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. 
There was no repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage, and a capital repayment 
mortgage would have been unaffordable.
Miss C, on behalf of Mrs O, asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for the position Mrs O is in. However, I must decide the case 
on the basis of the evidence.
TSBs position is that the mortgage application didnt meet its lending criteria. TSB is entitled 
to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that TSB makes in respect of what those criteria are, 
its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and whether it should lend 
are clearly discretionary matters for TSBs own commercial judgement that I would not 
interfere with.
TSB has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. 
TSB does not allow a sale of the borrowers main residence as the repayment vehicle for an 
interest-only mortgage. Mrs O doesnt have any savings, investments or other property that 
could be used as a repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage. Im satisfied, therefore, 
that TSB isnt able to offer Mrs O an interest-only mortgage.
TSB also has a maximum age limit of 75 years, which for Mrs O means that the mortgage 
would run for about nine years. A capital repayment mortgage over such a term would be 
unaffordable, on the basis of the income Mrs O provided to TSB. I note that Mrs O receives 
some earnings by way of cash in hand payments, but TSB isnt able to take this into 
consideration as an acceptable form of income.
After careful consideration, Im satisfied that TSB reached its lending decision fairly, after 
taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to 
risk, and Mrs Os specific circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that TSB gave fair 
consideration to this application and, having done so, was entitled to decline the application. 
This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that TSB has treated Mrs O unfairly 
or unreasonably.
TSB is under a regulatory requirement to ensure that any mortgage it offers is affordable, 
and on the basis of the information provided by Mrs O, Im satisfied that the mortgage was 
not affordable.
I am told that in January 2024 Mrs O will be in receipt of 50% of her late husbands pension. 
If her circumstances have changed, Mrs O can always make a further application to TSB for 
another mortgage  or indeed to any other lender. I think Mrs O might fight it helpful to speak 
to an independent financial adviser to see what options might be available to her. In addition 
to a standard mortgage, Mrs O is of the age where she might qualify for an equity release 
mortgage or a Later Life Retirement mortgage, neither of which TSB offers. If Mrs O would 
like to speak to a financial adviser, she can find details of ones local to her via the FCA 
website at:  https://www.fca.org.uk/
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs O was hoping for. I am truly sorry if my decision adds to 
her distress. But in all the circumstances, Im unable to find TSB has done anything wrong in 
its decision not to lend to Mrs O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman