DRN-4013887
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way in which TSB Bank plc dealt with a payment he disputed on 
his credit card account.
What happened
Mr N explains that he contacted TSB when a payment he didnt recognise for £76.99 was 
debited to his credit card account on 15 September 2022. He is unhappy with the way TSB 
dealt with this and so he contacted this service.
TSB then issued a final response dated 30 September 2022. This set out that it had 
refunded the money and applied a payment stop to the merchant involved. It accepted that it 
had provided poor service to Mr N as he had been passed between its fraud and dispute 
departments it seems because the payment had been set up as a recurring one. So, it 
apologised and paid him £50 in compensation. TSB took the view that this payment had 
likely been due to his card details being compromised. It noted that the merchant involved 
seemed to be well established and trading for 30 years. TSB said that it would encourage Mr 
N to change his card and so not leave compromised details active.
Our investigator didnt recommend that TSB do anything more. He said that it had done what 
wed expect. And that we didnt have a further role in for example insisting that action was 
taken against the merchant. Since he issued his opinion Mr N had raised a further complaint 
as he said that a payment from the same merchant had been taken in December 2022. Our 
investigator said that this would be treated as a new complaint to be investigated and asked 
Mr N for further information.
Mr N didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be taken further. He said that he wasnt happy 
with our investigators assessment. This implied it was acceptable for dishonest people to 
steal money from his account and that there was no power to stop this. And it seems that 
TSB thought this was acceptable too. Thered been no mention of his rights to instruct his 
bank to stop any person from stealing money from him. And this service should have told 
TSB to stop this from happening too. He provided all his evidence but what TSB has 
submitted has been kept behind closed doors. And he said that this wouldnt happen in 
court. Mr N concluded that he found that what was said and implied by the report was deeply 
offensive and totally unacceptable. He objected to our investigator having a role in his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first need to say that we provide informal dispute resolution, and we arent a court or the 
regulator. Our scope here is in looking at what happened in Mr Ns complaint and not to 
review TSBs processes generally. And Im looking at the complaint that Mr N made to TSB 
and referred to us and not the subsequent issue even though its connected. Our investigator 
has set out what Mr N needs to provide to take that one forward. And that this referral for 
final decision is about the initial complaint. This same investigator will be sending out this 
decision for me.
As part of natural justice, its fair for Mr N to expect to see the information Ive relied on in 
coming to my assessment. Here that is very limited because TSB upheld his complaint and 
accepted it provided poor service. So, the key documents are Mr Ns statements and the 
final response letter both of which he has.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with card details. Where credit is involved, as is 
the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.
While potentially I could take a different view to TSB about whether the payment was 
authorised Ive no basis to do so. And that means I dont need to look further at the way the 
payment was made to make such a finding and investigate what the merchant did in a 
complaint about TSB.
Mr N has been paid £50 for poor service. Hes not made further comments about what TSB 
said about his specific customer service experience in the final response. I think that this 
compensation is reasonable.
A clear issue for Mr N is what he thinks this service or TSB may be inferring or implying by 
our actions. Ive explained above what our remit is. And so, I dont have a basis to ask TSB 
to do anything more as far as the merchant is concerned. Mr N cant in my view fairly infer 
anything about that other than this is the limit of our scope and involvement for his complaint. 
And as I indicated above Im not going behind a finding that this payment wasnt authorised 
by him. He is free to contact the relevant card scheme, as he indicates hes done and the 
authorities if he remains unhappy with the actions of the merchant.
As I also mentioned there is a new complaint about a payment being taken again. That is 
being dealt with separately and will consider what happened. I say this only for context and I 
make no indication or comment about the merits of that complaint as it hasnt been 
investigated yet.
I know Mr N has strong feelings about what happened and will be disappointed with my 
conclusions here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that TSB Bank plc need do no 
more than it has already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman