DRN-2893362
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim for 
unemployment that he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O contacted Great Lakes in late September 2020 to register his claim for unemployment. 
The business declined the claim on the basis that Mr Os unemployment was not as a result 
of involuntary redundancy. Instead, it said that Mr O had entered into a settlement 
agreement with his employer, which included him signing resignation letters. Therefore, as 
he had resigned, the claim was not payable.
Our adjudicators view was that Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining the claim and he 
therefore did not uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have taken account of the law, relevant rules and regulations, and good 
industry practice.
The policy terms set out the circumstances in which unemployment would not be covered. It 
states that benefits will not be paid if a policyholder has agreed to take voluntary 
unemployment, resign, or permanently retire.
Mr O reached a settlement (or compromise) agreement with his employer. Looking at the 
settlement agreement it states that the termination of Mr Os employment is by mutual 
consent. It further states that as a result of the agreement, it is agreed that the employer will 
not proceed with the disciplinary investigation into allegations raised against Mr O. 
Appendices to the agreement included documents containing agreed wording including 
resignation letters, a statement to be put out about Mr Os reasons for parting ways with the 
company (stating that he had elected to move on to focus on new challenges) and a copy of 
the reference that would be supplied on request to prospective new employers of Mr O.
On his claim form, Mr O stated that he had left his employer by mutual consent 
(compromise). In the part of the form that had to be completed by Mr Os employer, the 
employer has written n/a next to the reason for redundancy. The employer also did not 
respond fully to a further request for information from Great Lakes, besides providing a copy 
of the reference for Mr O which simply stated his start and end dates with the company.
On the basis of the information provided to Great Lakes, it is not surprising that it concluded 
that Mr O had chosen to leave his job, rather than being made redundant. However, Mr O 
has said that he was asked to leave by his employer, who wanted to avoid any negative 
publicity around a dismissal. It was therefore a forced resignation that he had no choice 
about and that the resignation letters related to the statutory directorships that he held rather 
than his main employment. As such, Mr O says that Great Lakes has not taken the 
circumstances into account and has not fully investigated his reasons for leaving. Mr O also 
says he received legal advice about the compromise agreement and that the wording of the 
policy was also reviewed as part of that process.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr O has said, particularly that his unemployment was 
not voluntary because he didnt have a choice about leaving. Settlement agreements 
reached between employees and employers are generally preceded by a complex set of 
events that has resulted in the parties seeking to part ways. Such agreements usually seek 
to avoid blame, as is the case here where the reason given is mutual agreement.
My role is to establish whether Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably when assessing Mr 
Os claim for unemployment. The main evidence is that Mr O decided to take the settlement 
agreement, having received independent legal advice. Although Mr O says he didnt have a 
choice, he did, although perhaps not a very palatable one. He could have refused the 
settlement agreement and instead chosen to face disciplinary action. According to Mr O, he 
was told by his employer that the outcome of that would likely be dismissal without a 
reference. Ultimately he agreed to leave voluntarily to avoid the alternatives. As our 
adjudicator has said, he made a very difficult and personal choice to leave.
I cant comment on any legal advice Mr O may have received. However, based on the 
available evidence, I am satisfied that Great Lakes applied its policy terms and conditions 
appropriately. I find that it was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr O to 
conclude that he had voluntarily left his employment. As that circumstance is excluded under 
the policy, it was reasonable for Great Lakes to decline Mr Os claim for unemployment.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint. 
On another matter, based on the information available, it looks as if Mr O may have been 
over-insured, at least at the time of the claim. Thats because the policy provided a benefit 
amount of £2,000. However, that was above the maximum benefit amount available in Mr 
Os circumstances, which was 150% of his monthly mortgage repayment amount. From what 
I have seen, Mr Os two mortgage loans required a total repayment of £776.48 per month 
and therefore 150% would be £1,164.72. As Great Lakes was not on risk for the amount 
over this figure, Mr O may wish to contact Great Lakes to request a partial refund of 
premiums for any periods in which he was over-insured. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and 
make no award against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman