DRN-3011121
The complaint
Mr W and Miss S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly applied an early repayment 
charge on their joint mortgage account.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr W and Miss S switched to a new interest rate on their mortgage. Just 
before the switch they made a lump sum payment towards the mortgage balance. An early 
repayment charge was applied to their account. They say HSBC told them this wouldnt 
happen. 
In January 2020 Mr W and Miss S again switched to a new interest rate on their mortgage. 
Around this time and up to March 2020, Mr W was in contact with HSBC as he was unsure 
how much of his mortgage had been repaid. HSBC issued a final response letter explaining 
repayments and the outstanding balance of the mortgage. Mr W still wasnt sure how much 
had been repaid, so in early April 2020 he asked HSBC for a full mortgage statement.
Looking at the statements, Mr W noticed HSBC had applied an early repayment charge in 
January 2018. He complained in September 2020 and HSBC refunded the charge along with 
associated interest that had been added. It also offered £100 compensation by way of 
apology. Mr W rejected the compensation offer saying hed accept £250 for time hed spent 
communicating with HSBC throughout 2020.
The complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator said HSBCs offer of 
compensation was fair, as it dealt with the complaint promptly once Mr W had informed it of 
the early repayment charge. Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings saying hed been 
in contact with HSBC for nine months about the mortgage. He maintained that he would 
accept £250 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a financial business has made a mistake to the detriment of its consumer, the 
expectation of this service is that consumers are restored to the position they wouldve been 
in but for the mistake (as far as possible). In this complaint Im satisfied HSBC has done that 
for Mr W and Miss S by refunding the early repayment charge plus the associated mortgage 
interest.
The remaining issue to determine is whether HSBCs offer of £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience Mr W and Miss S have been caused by 
HSBCs mistake.
Mr W says he spent a lot of time communicating with HSBC about the mortgage from 
January to September 2020. From the information available, I can see the new interest rate 
was discussed and agreed in January 2020. And Mr W was querying the repayments and 
mortgage balance up to the end of March 2020. However, it wasnt until September 2020 
that he complained specifically about the early repayment charge. This was after hed 
received and reviewed the mortgage statement HSBC sent to him in April 2020.
So, while Mr W was in contact with HSBC over a nine-month period, it wasnt about the 
specific issue this complaint is about and it wasnt continuous  there was a gap of a few 
months between the statements being sent and this complaint being made. 
That said, arguably, HSBC could have realised its mistake concerning the early repayment 
charge much sooner. After all, Mr W was querying the outstanding mortgage balance and 
HSBC assured him it was right  when it wasnt (because of the early repayment charge).  
But Im not persuaded this means the £100 compensation offered by HSBC isnt fair or 
reasonable. I need to consider the impact of HSBCs mistake on Mr W and Miss S when 
deciding what compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Mr W and Miss S werent aware of the mistake until September 2020 and it was quickly fixed 
when Mr W raised it with HSBC. I dont think I can fairly conclude Mr W or Miss S were 
particularly upset or inconvenienced by what had happened. It would have been preferable if 
HSBC had spotted the charge had been wrongly applied, without Mr W having to raise it. But 
I think the £100 thats been offered fairly compensates Mr W and Miss S for the 
inconvenience of having to make the complaint to get the situation sorted out.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr W and Miss S £100 if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman