DRN-3618058
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc (Jigsaw) cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had a motor insurance policy covering his car which was arranged through Jigsaw, 
which is an insurance broker. 
The policy was an annual insurance policy and the insurer required the annual premium to 
be paid up front. Mr T wanted to pay for the policy monthly so Jigsaw arranged for him to 
take out a finance agreement with a third-party finance provider, who Ill call C. 
C paid the annual premium on Mr Ts behalf, and Mr T agreed to repay the amount in line 
with the terms of the finance agreement. Under the terms of the finance agreement, Mr T 
paid a deposit and then ten further instalments.
In March 2020, Mr T made a claim under his car insurance which was settled as being his 
fault. 
Mr T was also facing financial difficulties due to the impact of the pandemic and was 
struggling with a serious health condition.
During 2020 Mr T missed several payments to C, and he cancelled the direct debit for his 
finance agreement. Both C and Jigsaw wrote to him repeatedly to warn him about 
cancellation and ask for payment. Mr T made payments at various times during the year.
The policy and finance agreement remained in place until the final payment was due in mid-
December 2020. This payment wasnt made, so Jigsaw wrote to Mr T and asked him to pay. 
Payment wasnt received, so Jigsaw again wrote to him and said his policy would be 
cancelled unless payment was received by 5 January 2021.
Jigsaw, C and Mr T had many conversations around this time to try and make this payment, 
including a partial payment, and Jigsaw told Mr T that his policy would be cancelled on 19 
January. It said this date couldnt be changed because Mr Ts policy was due to renew.
Because Mr T hadnt made a payment by 19 January, Jigsaw cancelled his policy. It says Mr 
T owes it £402.57, which is the amount left to pay under the terms of his finance agreement 
with C.
Mr T complained to Jigsaw. He is unhappy that Jigsaw wouldnt agree a payment plan with 
him. He says it acted callously towards him and didnt consider his health. Because Jigsaw 
cancelled his policy, Mr T says his premiums have doubled because he needs to tell his new 
insurers about the cancellation.
Jigsaw didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It asked Mr T to make the payment of £402.57 to 
settle his finance agreement. 
Mr T remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ts complaint and upheld it. He said he thought Jigsaw had caused Mr T trouble and 
upset by cancelling his policy, so he said Jigsaw should pay him £300. He also said Jigsaw 
should waive the cancellation of his insurance policy so that Mr T wouldnt have to declare it 
in future. But our investigator also said Mr T needed to pay the remainder of his outstanding 
payments.
Mr T agreed with the view, but Jigsaw didnt. So this complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read about the very difficult circumstances Mr T has found himself in during 
the past couple of years. I want to assure him that Ive carefully considered the evidence 
hes provided this service about this and would also like to take the opportunity to wish him 
the best moving forward.
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint, and Ill explain why.
Its important that I say that, by entering into the finance agreement with C, the insurer was 
paid in full by C at the start. So nothing further is owed to the insurer. The amount 
outstanding is owed to C as the finance provider.
I can see from Mr Ts evidence that he struggled with his health throughout the period of 
insurance and was trying to make payments to C through Jigsaw during this time. I can also 
see that Jigsaw were aware of his condition as there are repeated references to it in 
Jigsaws communications log. I can appreciate that this must have been a very trying time 
for Mr T and I think Jigsaw were trying to help him during this time. I can see that there were 
lots of discussions with C about how Mr T could make payments.
Its my role to look at Jigsaws actions and decide whether what it did around cancelling Mr 
Ts insurance policy was fair and reasonable. 
When a motor insurance policy is cancelled mid-term, the insurance contract will usually say 
that the insurer should refund the unused portion of the premium, as long as a claim hasnt 
been made. 
In Mr Ts case, he had made a fault claim under his policy, so the insurer wouldnt need to 
refund part of his premium, which in turn would mean there was no refund to apply to Mr Ts 
finance agreement. 
But that means Mr T has been effectively penalised by the policy being cancelled one month 
early. The amount he still owes (£402.57) would be the same whether or not his policy 
ended when it did, or went to its full term. 
Its the approach of this service that cancellation should generally only happen where a 
refund is payable under the terms of the insurance policy, as theres no benefit in cancelling 
the insurance policy if a refund isnt payable  for example in Mr Ts case because hed 
already made a claim. 
Where a refund is payable, the benefit from cancelling his policy early would be to Cs 
advantage, because it would reduce the amount it was owed. However there wouldnt be the same advantage where the insurer has settled a claim because, as I say above, Mr T would 
still have to pay the full amount owed regardless of when the policy ended.
So, because there is no benefit to anyone from Jigsaw cancelling Mr Ts policy, it, in effect, 
becomes a penalty for him breaching the terms of a separate finance agreement contract. 
And I dont think thats fair of Jigsaw to do this. Mr Ts distress and inconvenience has been 
significant because he needed to use his car to attend hospital appointments, and I think 
Jigsaw should pay him compensation of £300 for this.
Its important that I remind Mr T that he owes Jigsaw the balance of his finance agreement 
as he had used the policy in making his claim.
Mr T has also complained that, by cancelling his policy early, Mr T would have to tell insurers 
in the future about what had happened which might have the effect of increasing his 
premiums. 
Because I dont think it was fair of Jigsaw to have ended his policy early, I think Jigsaw 
should remove notice of its cancellation of Mr Ts policy from its internal records, and any 
external databases it may have updated.
I appreciate Mr T is unhappy that his future premiums may be affected. But I cant comment 
on something that may happen in the future or in respect of the actions of a business that 
arent part of this complaint. So Im not going to ask Jigsaw to pay any extra for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc to:
Pay Mr T £300 for his distress and inconvenience. This amount can be deducted 
from the balance owed by Mr T.
Remove records of it cancelling Mr Ts policy from its internal and any external 
databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman