DRN-4108899
The complaint
Mr and Ms B have complained about the level of settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited (Admiral) offered in respect of their travel insurance claim.
What happened
In summer 2021, Mr and Ms B and their family took a holiday in Europe. They visited various 
places and travelled between them by car.
They arrived very late at one place. They understood the area was safe. So they decided 
just to take their overnight things into their accommodation and unpack the remainder in 
daylight.
Unfortunately, when they returned to the car the following morning, they found it had been 
broken into and their possessions taken. So they made a report to the local police. And, 
when they returned to the United Kingdom, Mr B submitted a claim to Admiral under their 
travel insurance policy for items of a total value of £11,760.
Admiral said their policy excluded a claim for any valuable items which had been left in the 
car. So they declined the familys claim for cameras and sunglasses. In respect of the claim 
for the familys personal items (valued by Mr B at just over £10,000), Admiral offered £1,936, 
less the policy excess of £75 per person (£300).
Mr B complained to Admiral about the level of settlement offered and the excess. Admiral 
rejected the complaint and referred Mr B to their policy terms which explained how they 
would deal with a claim. And they said that the excess is applied per person  so, because 
four members of the family had had possessions stolen, an excess had been deducted for 
each.
Mr B thought the claim hadnt been considered correctly. He told Admiral he didnt think 
theyd assessed it in line with the policy terms, because theyd only offered a settlement for 
items where hed been able to provide proof of purchase  not any other proof of ownership, 
such as bank statements or photographs of the family wearing or using the items claimed 
for.
Admiral responded, saying their claims department had considered Mr Bs comments and 
confirmed their previous offer. Mr and Ms B wasnt satisfied with that response. So they 
brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint. Initially, he said Mr B hadnt provided evidence of 
ownership of the majority of the items claimed for. So it was fair for Admiral to settle as they 
had. But, having received more evidence of what had been stolen, he concluded Admiral 
should pay the claim in full as he was satisfied ownership had either been evidenced, or it 
was not reasonable to expect it to be.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigators view. So I was asked to make a decision.  I 
reached a different conclusion from the investigator.  So  to give both parties a chance to 
comment on that  I made a provisional decision.
I was satisfied that it was fair to deduct a total of £300 for excesses, because the policy 
made clear this was payable per person, per claim.  And I was satisfied there was a clear 
exclusion of valuables.
But I didnt think Admiral had fairly assessed and settled the familys claim for their other 
possessions.  Their policy included a term which says:
If you're claiming for lost, stolen or accidentally damaged personal belongings you must
 
 provide receipts showing the price you paid for each item and where and when you bought 
it. If you cannot provide a receipt we will accept other satisfactory proof of ownership, such 
as a bank statement or a photograph of you wearing the article. [my emphasis].
Mr and Ms B provided a number of photographs to support the claim.  But Admiral declined it 
because they couldnt provide proof of purchase. 
I didnt think that was fair.  So I provisionally decided Admiral should reassess the claim on 
the basis of the photographic evidence of ownership provided.  And I said Admiral should 
pay Mr and Ms B £250 compensation for the trouble and upset theyd caused them.
Both parties have now provided comments.  So the matters been returned to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Ms Bs complaint for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, and which Ive summarised above. 
Im pleased to note that Admiral confirmed in response to my provisional decision that they 
accepted the decision.  They said theyd need some further information from Mr and Ms B to 
reassess the claim.  The investigator has passed this on and Id expect from this point that 
the parties will liaise directly about any information Admiral need to assess the claim in line 
with the policy terms.
Mr and Ms B responded to my provisional decision, highlighting that their claim included 
items, such as underwear and towels, for which they had no photographic evidence.  They 
said it would be unreasonable to decline the claim for these.  And they said theyve not 
replaced items while theyve waited for the claim and this complaint to be resolved.  As a 
result, replacement costs are higher than they were.
I understand the points theyve made.  But my role isnt to direct Admiral how they should 
settle the claim  its to decide whether theyve assessed it fairly, having regard to their 
terms and conditions.  I decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think Admiral did 
that for the reasons Ive explained.
Putting things right
As Ive previously explained, I think Admiral should accept photos as proof of ownership and 
reassess Mr and Ms Bs claim on this basis and in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.And, in the absence of either party making any submissions to persuade me otherwise, I 
think its fair that Admiral pay Mr and Ms B £250 compensation for the trouble and upset 
their handling of the claim has caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Ms Bs complaint about Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited and direct Admiral to:
reassess the claim on the basis of the photographic evidence of ownership provided 
by Mr and Ms B; and
pay Mr and Ms B £250 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman