DRN-3709050
The complaint
X complains that they were supplied with goods which werent of satisfactory quality under a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica UK Limited (Telefonica).
What happened
X was provided with a mobile phone by Telefonica in February 2020, the cost of which was 
financed under a fixed sum loan agreement.
X reported a fault with the device to the manufacturer in October 2021. X says they were told 
that there was no damage caused to the device by its user, so they raised the issue with 
Telefonica.
I understand that Telefonica told X that the device was no longer covered by a warranty, so 
X would need to cover the cost of repairs. Unhappy that this was the case, X raised a 
complaint with Telefonica. 
In response, Telefonica said that it thought the onus to demonstrate the device hadnt been 
of satisfactory quality was on X and it didnt think theyd done that. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. Nonetheless, it offered to replace the device. As X had told it theyd already 
purchased a replacement, it ended the fixed sum loan with nothing more for X to pay, 
crediting £157.88 to settle the agreement.
X referred the matter to this service. They suggested the device hadnt been sufficiently 
durable and theres a reasonable expectation for the device to work for the duration of the 
three-year agreement. They provided a report from the manufacturer which found that the 
device was not responsive to touch and showed no signs of misuse. X also suggested that 
Telefonicas offer to replace and then end the agreement is an admission of responsibility.
Our investigator disagreed. They said that Telefonica wasnt obligated to provide a device 
which worked for the duration of the agreement, and that they hadnt been presented with 
sufficient evidence to conclude that the device was not of satisfactory quality either when 
supplied, or on the grounds that it hadnt been sufficiently durable. They said that Telefonica 
had already done more than it needed to.
X provided a more detailed statement from the manufacturer which said the fault was not 
due to misuse. They asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Xs complaint is about the quality of goods provided under a fixed sum loan agreement. 
Thats a regulated agreement and one which we have the power to consider a complaint 
about. 
Ive taken into account all of the information and evidence X has submitted in making my 
decision. I dont intend to mirror the level of detail in which their submissions were 
presented, simply because I dont find it necessary to explain what I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome is.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this case. It implies terms into the 
agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. Thats defined as meeting 
the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account the 
description of the goods, price paid, and other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality 
also refers to durability.
X was provided with a brand-new mobile phone, so Id expect it to be free from faults for a 
considerable period of time. As our investigator correctly stated, theres no obligation for 
Telefonica to ensure that the device worked correctly for the duration of Xs agreement with 
it - that is, outside of any warranties they were provided with. Such warranties arent 
something this service can consider a complaint about, and I dont think that its in dispute 
that any warranties had expired in any case.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was 
present when the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to suggest
otherwise. Outside of those six months, its for X to show that the goods were not of
satisfactory quality. 
From whats been said I think both parties agree theres a fault with the device and that it 
manifested around 18 months after it was supplied. So, I think the onus is on X to 
demonstrate that the device wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided by X in relation to the devices quality. 
Its understandable that X is frustrated with the situation  particularly given the report 
produced by the manufacturer. That report, however, doesnt satisfy me that there was an 
inherent fault with the device which wouldve been present or developing when it was 
supplied. It also doesnt satisfy me that the device hasnt been sufficiently durable. 
The report says, under the heading cosmetic condition, that the device showed no obvious 
signs of damage or misuse, no signs of liquid damage and says this issue is not due to the 
customer. My interpretation of these statements is that they are representative simply of a 
visual inspection of the device. It doesnt persuade me that an examination took place which 
was sufficiently detailed to rely on it to reasonably conclude why the fault occurred. 
Additionally, even if I were to accept those statements as fact, it doesnt follow that Id expect 
the device to work correctly and indefinitely until it was damaged or misused, for example. I 
think its fair to say that sometimes faults can occur in electronic goods without them having 
been misused. Its possible certain components reach the end of their life expectancy before 
others  something which can vary significantly based on a number of factors, including the 
frequency with which theyre used and the environment theyre used in.
I cant say for sure what caused the fault with Xs device. But, given the time it took for the 
fault to occur as well as the lack of persuasive evidence as to the cause, Im not persuaded 
the device supplied was of unsatisfactory quality  either when supplied or on the grounds of 
durability. 
As a result, I cannot fairly require Telefonica to do any more. I need not make any finding on 
the offers Telefonica made in response to Xs complaint, given that I do not uphold the complaint. But, I dont think any offers made represent an admission of responsibility on 
Telefonicas part and overall I think it handled matters reasonably. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman