DRN-3325536
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society changed the terms of their Loyalty Saver 
Accounts and that the timing of this change disproportionately affected the elderly and was 
discriminatory.  She also complains that this forced her into online banking to close the 
account and that no adjustments were made for her.  
 
What happened
Ms H was a longstanding customer of Nationwide and held a Loyalty Saver Account. 
In June 2021 Nationwide changed the terms of the Loyalty Saver Accounts from giving a 
tiered interest rate, to rewarding savers through member prize draws. 
Ms H was unhappy with this. She thought that making this change mid pandemic meant that 
older customers were impacted disproportionately as they would be unable to go into branch 
to open new accounts and make changes due to the need to socially distance. She also said 
she felt coerced into opening an online account just to close her account because she didnt 
want to go into branch, and Nationwide wouldnt agree to close her account on the phone 
and transfer withdrawals to her already held nominated accounts. She complained to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide responded on 24 August 2021. They explained why they had made the changes 
to the account, and said that although they have policies and terms and conditions in place, 
there is a dedicated team who can discuss adjustments for member and advised that this 
cud be accessed through the contact centre. 
Ms H was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he thought that Nationwide had done mothing 
wrong.  
Ms H disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Firstly, I need to explain that I dont have the power to tell Nationwide what products and 
rewards they should offer as this is a commercial decision.  But I can look at whether 
Nationwide have complied with their account terms and conditions when making any 
changes, and whether they have acted fairly in doing so. 
Have Nationwide acted in line with their terms and conditions?
The terms and conditions of the Loyalty Saver Account allow for Nationwide to make 
changes to the interest rate and other terms and conditions. It says: 
Variation of your interest rate and other account terms and conditions 
59. If we want to make a change to any of the terms and conditions for your account, we can 
do so for one or more of the reasons set out below. Any change we make will be 
proportionate to the reason we need to make it. 
60. We can make different types of changes for different reasons as follows: 
A If we want to: 
change the interest rate (but we will not change it during a fixed rate period); 
introduce, remove or change interest rate tiering (where a different interest rate 
applies depending on the balance in your account); 
introduce or change an account fee for holding your account with us; 
change the notice you must give us to withdraw money; or 
change the interest you lose or fees you pay for closing your account early, we can 
do so for one of these reasons: 
(a) To ensure the rates and/or account fees are consistent with those we offer new 
customers, or to reflect changes that other providers are making to rates or fees on 
similar savings products. 
(b) To enable us to manage the overall costs to us of raising the money we lend to 
our customers. This is because we use the money you save with us, together with 
money we raise from other financial institutions, the financial markets or investors, to 
lend to customers, such as mortgage borrowers. We have to balance the interest 
rates we pay you with both the rates we pay to borrow or raise other funds and with 
the interest rates we charge on our mortgages. This means that your rate may 
change to respond to: changes to external benchmark interest rates, such as Bank of 
England base rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); 
changes to the rates we need to charge to attract and retain mortgage customers. 
(c) To respond to changes in the amount or composition of the capital our regulators 
require us to hold. (Capital is the amount of money we are required to hold in reserve 
to ensure we can continue to meet our financial obligations.) 
(d) To maintain our financial strength for the benefit of our members. 
So, I am satisfied that Nationwide have acted within their terms and conditions in making 
these amendments. 
The terms and conditions also say that they will give the customer 14 days notice of the 
change , and that the customer will have 30 days from the date of notification to close their 
account or switch to a different account without incurring any charges or loss of interest. As 
Ms H was notified at the end of June about a change taking place on 13 August 2021, Im 
satisfied that she was given the appropriate amount of time in accordance with this. 
Have Nationwide acted fairly
Ms H has raised several issues here. She feels that customers have been entered into a 
prize draw which they may not want without being asked, and that because a prize draw is 
effectively gambling this may not be acceptable to some customers. She also feels that elderly customers have been disadvantaged as they may not want to to 
go into branch because of the pandemic and so if they wanted to close their accounts, like 
she did, they would need to register for online banking, which may not be a convenient 
option for them. 
Although I can appreciate that during the pandemic there were serious concerns about 
public contact for many customers, including the elderly, I cant comment in general terms 
about how groups of customers may or may not be affected by Nationwides decison. I can 
only look at how Ms H was affected by this change, and whether she was unfairly impacted. 
In June 2021 Nationwide gave notice to Ms H and all other Loyalty Saver customers that the 
membership tiers would be removed from 13 August 2021 and all members would receive 
0.25% interest, which was the rate currently available to members with accounts of more 
than 15 years standing. So, for the majority of customers this would be an increase in 
interest. For Ms H it made no difference as she was already a 15-year customer. Customers 
would also be automatically enrolled for member prize draws from November 2021.  And so, 
I dont think Ms H was unfairly impacted by the change itself. 
Ms H says on receiving this letter that she decided to close her accounts. She says that the 
options on the letter for doing so were in branch or online.  However, she was uncomfortable 
with going into branch because of the risks of the pandemic. She said that she made contact 
with Nationwide and had an appointment to speak to someone on 12 August 2021 but that 
they were unhelpful and refused to make any reasonable adjustments for her. She had to 
reluctantly become an online customer in order to close her account. She has told me that 
this wasnt an easy thing for her to do, as she is sight impaired and needs a magnifier to 
operate online banking, and also lacks technical confidence, which is why she has always 
previously rejected online banking.  
I have listened to the calls from 12 August 2021 to see whether I think the call adviser acted 
fairly and whether the issue of reasonable adjustments was discussed. I am satisfied that the 
call adviser did their best to help Ms H. She explained that because of the customer 
authentication process, accounts can only be closed in branch or online and although she 
appreciates that coming in isnt an option, she explains that if Ms H registers for online 
banking she can close the account that way. She also offers to assist Ms H with registering 
for online banking by staying on the phone to her while she completes the process. In a 
second call, the call handlers manager sends Ms H a demonstration video of how to register 
for online banking to assist her. Ms H does tell the adviser that she banks with her current 
account provider online, but she doesnt mention in either call that she has a visual 
impairment and that this is a barrier to online banking. So, I cant say fairly say that 
Nationwide have refused to make a reasonable adjustment for this as they werent made 
aware of a need.  
I fully understand that Ms H felt anxious about going into branch during the pandemic, and I 
appreciate that registering for online banking wasnt the most convenient way of closing her 
account  Ms H would have preferred to have done this by phone - but Im satisfied that 
Nationwide did provide appropriate support to enable Ms H to close her account online, 
which she did that same day. 
I also understand that Ms H was unhappy that following closure of the account, the funds 
couldnt be transferred to a nominated account and had to be sent as a cheque. Again, I 
appreciate that this wasnt the most convenient option, but Ms H was able to post that 
cheque to her current account, and so I cant fairly say that Nationwide have done anything 
wrong here.  I can see that Ms H still holds an account with Nationwide and if she needs to have any 
adjustments made in the future to operate this account, Nationwide have advised that she 
can ring and speak to the customer contact team to make them aware of her needs. 
In view of the above, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about 
Nationwide Building Society.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman