DRN-3333103
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently, Mr and Mrs J held with The 
Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op). Theyre unhappy that Co-op wouldnt backdate an 
application for a new interest rate deal. Its a joint complaint, but all of our dealings have 
been with Mr J.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs J and Co-op. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has 
been sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in 
Mr and Mrs J being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage deal was due to end on 31 July 2021. Mr J had attempted to 
contact the business several weeks beforehand but hadnt got through. On 29 July 2021, he 
decided to apply for a new rate online; hes said he thought this was an automated process 
and the new rate would just be applied immediately. Instead, several days later Co-op sent 
out an offer in the post with a form of authority, which needed to be signed and returned, 
also in the post, before the new rate could be applied. Meanwhile, the mortgage had by that 
point gone onto standard variable rate.
Mr and Mrs J wanted the new deal to apply from 1 August 2021; Co-op said it was prepared 
to backdate it by four days once it had received the form of authorisation, because of a short 
delay whilst accrued overpayments were capitalised in order for the offer to be issued. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt return the form of authorisation but complained instead. 
When the case came to us, Co-op agreed, as a concession, to backdate the new deal to 
1 August 2021, but on condition Mr and Mrs J signed and returned the form of authorisation 
before the offer expired in December 2021. Mr and Mrs J rejected this and asked for the 
case to go to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
I appreciate how strongly Mr J feels that Co-op let him and Mrs J down and should have 
apologised. But the reality here is that Co-op did nothing wrong and has nothing to apologise 
for. Other than the four-day interval whilst accrued overpayments were capitalised to allow 
the new deal to go through, the application was processed within reasonable timescales in 
accordance with Co-ops normal methodology for dealing with on-line applications. 
In my view, the problem here was more to do with the lateness of the application being made 
 two days before the existing rate expired on 31 July 2021  combined with Mr Js incorrect 
assumptions about how the online process would operate, and how long it would take.
Getting back to the four-day interval I referenced in the preceding paragraph, Co-op 
addressed that promptly and in what Im satisfied was an entirely reasonable manner. That 
was, to offer to backdate the new rate by four days once it received Mr and Mrs Js 
acceptance of the mortgage offer, if that was before it expired in December 2021. 
The later offer to backdate specifically to 1 August 2021, made at our investigators behest, 
was a goodwill gesture that Co-op need not have made. That too was, quite rightly, 
conditional upon Mr and Mrs J accepting the mortgage offer before it expired. As 
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the offer before expiry, Co-op didnt need to do anything. As the 
mortgage has since been repaid, there is now nothing for Co-op to do.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman