DRN-3220702
The complaint
Mr G complains his loan was approved irresponsibly. He doesnt believe the loan was 
affordable and says this would have been apparent if the appropriate checks had been 
carried out.
Mr G's loan was originally provided by a business that later sold its loan accounts to Link 
Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.7) (Asset Link).  As Asset 
Link have taken responsibility for this complaint and for ease of reading, I will only refer to it 
in this decision.
What happened
Mr G applied for a loan online, through a credit broker. The application was accepted, and 
Asset Link issued a loan to Mr G in July 2018, payable over 60 months at a rate of £270.84 
per month. 
Mr G successfully made payments towards the loan until March 2020, when he contacted 
Asset Link to request a three-month deferral as his income had been affected by the COVID-
19 pandemic. This was granted covering the months April, May and June 2020. In October 
of the same year Mr G asked for a further three-month deferral period which was also 
granted, covering November and December 2020 and January 2021.
In March 2021 Mr G Contacted Asset Link saying he had recently had a consultation with a 
financial adviser regarding his debt. He said he had been advised that he shouldn't have 
been accepted for the majority of his accounts due to affordability issues. He said he didn't 
believe the appropriate checks had been carried out before agreeing his loan and had they 
been it would have been evident that he could not afford it.
Mr G asked Asset Link to refund all interest on any charges that he had paid and to remove 
any negative information from his credit file.
Asset Link said the affordability assessment concluded that the loan was affordable and 
sustainable based on the information Mr G had provided in his application. It also said it had 
carried out a detailed credit check and used an independent income verification tool to verify 
Mr G's income of £25,500 per year as it was declared in the application.
Mr G didnt agree Asset Link had done enough and felt if it had requested his bank 
statements at the time of the loan application, it would have shown the loan was 
unaffordable. Mr G also says that he never said his income was £25,500 and the application 
must have been pre-populated. Mr G brought his complaint to this service. 
In summary our investigator said Asset Link had carried out proportionate checks and she 
didn't think there was anything in the information it gathered which meant it shouldn't have 
lent to Mr G. And she hadn't seen anything which suggested Asset Link would have 
concluded that he wouldn't have been able to sustainably make the repayments needed for 
the loan.
Mr G disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending  
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice  on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Asset Link to carry out a reasonable 
proportionate assessment of Mr G's ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Asset Link had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Asset Link had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Asset Link to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back  it had to consider the impact of the loan  repayments on Mr G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications. I 
think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a consumer's income (reflecting it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I'm sorry to see Mr G has got into financial difficulties in recent years. But I do have to look at 
the information Asset Link had at the time about him applying for and being given the loan. The information on Mr G's credit record showed that he had eight credit cards with a 
combined balance of around £10,000. That said, he had been making regular payments 
towards those cards and there were no late or missed payments showing on his credit 
record. He also had three mail order accounts with zero balances and a loan with a balance 
of around £5,000. The monthly loan repayments were £175. And from looking at the 
statements Mr G provided, he was paying in the region of £310 per month towards his credit 
card accounts. I can see from Mr Gs statements following receipt of the funds he paid 
approximately £9,500 towards his credit card accounts.
Mr Gs loan application declared a self-employed income of £25,000, which would be in the 
region of £1,700 net per month. Ive seen evidence that this was verified at the time, through 
an independent income verification service provided by a credit reference agency.  
The application also said that Mr G was a homeowner without a mortgage, his credit file at 
the time supported that he had previously had a mortgage that had a zero balance so I dont 
think there was any reason for Asset Link to doubt this information.
Taking account of all of the above there was nothing to suggest that Mr Gs disposable 
income wasnt at a suitable level to take on the loan.
I appreciate Mr G says that the income must have been pre-populated on the application 
form, as he didnt enter it. But the form belonged to the credit broker and so Asset Link were 
not responsible for entering this information. And there was a responsibility on Mr G to make 
sure the application accurately reflected his circumstances. So, I cant say Asset Link acted 
unfairly when considering the information, it was provided. 
Mr G has also argued that had Asset Link looked at his bank statement it would have been 
clear his earnings were not at that level, but I dont agree. Mr Gs statements show lots of 
incoming payments from various different people and businesses, due to the nature of his 
self-employed work I think it would have been reasonable to assume these were payments 
from his customers. And the value of the payments into his account were in the region of the 
income amount stated above.
Ive noted that Mr G has said he was having to borrow money from his parents to maintain 
the payments on his debts. But as Ive said Mr G had a duty to make sure his application 
was accurate and would have needed to give full disclosure of his circumstances when 
applying for the loan. As some credit such as borrowing from family and friends wouldnt 
appear on a credit file and from looking at Mr Gs statements, I dont think it was evident 
from those either. Taking everything into account I think proportionate checks were carried 
out. And those checks, in my view, didnt highlight the need for any further checks. I think it 
was fairly assessed that the loan was affordable to Mr G and so the lending decision was a 
fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman