DRN-4346938
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Santander UK plc trading didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by a scam, or to help her recover the money once shed reported the 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Between March 2019 and February 2020, Mrs J made 106 payments totalling £12,413.08 to 
a company Ill refer to as K. She had decided to invest in gold on the basis it always 
increased in value and on the understanding the gold was stored in vaults and could be 
delivered on request.
In February 2021, Mrs J contacted K to request delivery of the gold, but she didnt receive a 
response. She contacted them again in March and April, but didnt receive a response until 
December 2021, when she received an email encouraging her to convert her assets to 
cryptocurrency, at which point she became concerned K was operating a scam.
Mrs J contacted Santander to tell it shed paid for goods that were never received, but it 
didnt accept K was a scam. However, it offered to refund £6391.34 under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, which was the sum all payments to K over £100. 
Mrs J wasnt satisfied and so she complained to Santander because she thought it should 
refund all the money shed lost. But Santander maintained its position, explaining that for 
Section 75 to apply, the item value to which the supplier has attached a cash price should be 
more than £100 and less than or equal to £30,000. It also said Mrs J been in contact with K, 
so it wasnt classed as a scam or fraud. And it was out of time to raise a claim under 
Mastercards chargeback rules. 
Mrs J complained to this service arguing that even though some of the payments were under 
£100, it wasnt possible to deliver one gram of gold, so the item she was purchasing cost 
more than £100. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mrs J had lost 
money, but she didnt think Santander should reasonably have been expected to prevent her 
loss as the payments werent unusual in comparison with her typical expenditure, and there 
were no warnings about K. So, she didnt think it missed an opportunity to intervene. She 
also said Mrs J was out of time to raise a chargeback request and the chargeback rules 
dont apply to scams. And she was satisfied Santanders decision not to refund the 
payments which were under £100 was fair.
Mrs J wasnt satisfied and so shes asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. She maintains K was operating a purchase scam because it took her money 
with intent to make a financial gain, and there were warnings about K from October 2019, 
but Santander processed the payments.
Shes argued the lower limit of £100 refers to the value of the goods purchased, explaining 
the agreement was to buy 2.5g or 5g bars, payable in instalments and she had intended to 
buy 5g bars as each transaction bought less than 1g of gold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear Mrs J has lost money. I know she feels strongly about this 
complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied Mrs J authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of the account, she is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances and I accept Mrs J has lost money and that she 
believes she was the victim of a scam. But given the size and value of the payments, I dont 
think Santander ought to have intervened to stop the payments or that it could have done 
anything else to prevent her loss.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Santander has refunded some of the payments under Section 75 because they were made 
using Mrs Js credit card. But it has refused to refund any payments below £100 because 
they dont relate to a single item which had a cash price of more than £100. 
Mrs J believes Section 75 should apply because she was paying in instalments for 5g gold 
bars (which were worth more than £100), but she hasnt produced any evidence to show she 
had an agreement with K to pay in instalments or that she intended to purchase 2g or 5g 
gold bars. Conversely, Santander has relied on receipts Mrs J received which show that for 
each payment, she was buying a specified amount of gold, for example, on 5 October 2019, 
she purchased 0.981 grams of gold for £65. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Santanders decision not to refund any payments less than 
£100 under Section 75 was fair because they related to an amount of gold with a cash price 
which was less than £100.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover Mrs Js payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard 
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme 
rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder (Mrs J). In this case, Mrs J was out of time to raise a request, so Im satisfied 
there was no prospect of a successful chargeback.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mrs J has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Santander is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman