DRN-3915293
The complaint
Mr N complains that Phoenix Life Limited wrongly led him to believe that hed be entitled to 
incapacity benefit under an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In 2001, Mr N took out a Personal Income Protection insurance policy. The policy provided 
cover for Mr Ns own occupation and included a deferred period of 26 weeks.
Subsequently, in February 2022, Mr N let Phoenix know that he was unwell. And in March 
2022, Phoenix sent Mr N incapacity claim forms. Phoenix asked for further information to 
allow it to assess Mr Ns claim and received Mr Ns medical information in August 2022.
Phoenix assessed Mr Ns claim and let him know that no benefit was due. Thats because 
although the 26-week deferred period had passed, Mr Ns employer was paying him half 
pay. And the amount of sick pay Mr N was being paid was more than the monthly benefit 
hed be entitled to under the policy.
Mr N was unhappy with Phoenixs decision. He said hed been reassured on a number of 
occasions that hed be covered by the policy. Hed understood benefit would be paid from 
July 2022 onwards. He said if hed been given accurate information when he made the 
claim, he could have made alternative arrangements with work.
Phoenix accepted itd given Mr N the impression that his claim would be paid after the 
deferred period. So it offered to pay him £100 compensation.
Mr N remained unhappy with Phoenixs position. He considered that the misleading 
information hed been given had led to him rushing back to work. He felt that Phoenix should 
pay him at least two months of monthly benefit which hed been expecting and which hed 
lost out on because hed had to rush back to work. And he felt it should pay compensation 
for the distress hed been caused. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator felt that Phoenix had correctly calculated that Mr N wasnt entitled to any 
monthly benefit, in line with the policy terms. So he didnt think that it would be reasonable to 
recommend that Phoenix should pay Mr N the benefit he felt hed lost out on. However, he 
felt that Mr N had suffered a loss of expectation, given hed been led to believe he was 
entitled to benefit after 26 weeks. And the investigator also thought Phoenix couldve 
advised Mr N that his claim wouldnt be paid earlier in the claims journey. So he 
recommended that Phoenix should pay Mr N a total of £300 compensation.
Phoenix didnt respond to our investigator. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said that he didnt think £300 
compensation was commensurate with the effect Phoenixs actions had had on him. He told 
us hed lost over £10,000 of salary during that period. He felt Phoenix had had all of the 
information it required to let him know that no benefit was due for around five months. But it 
had led him to believe it was waiting on the medical information before it could make a 
decision.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, I agree with our investigators 
conclusions and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear that this decision will only consider the impact of Phoenixs 
claim handling on Mr N. I understand another ombudsman has issued a decision about the 
sale of the policy and so I wont be commenting on that issue.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ns policy and the circumstances of 
his claim, to decide whether Phoenix treated him fairly.
Phoenixs benefit calculation
Mr N hasnt specifically complained about the calculation Phoenix carried out when it 
determined that his employers sick pay exceeded the monthly benefit he would be entitled 
to under the policy, following the expiry of his deferred period. For completeness though, I 
have carefully considered the terms of the contract between Mr N and Phoenix. And in 
particular, Ive looked closely at the applicable limitation of benefit clause set out in the 
policy, together with the 65% relevant proportion of earnings listed on Mr Ns policy 
schedule. Its clear that Phoenix was entitled to deduct any employer sick pay from the 
calculation of monthly benefit.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr Ns employer paid sick pay in full for the first six 
months of his illness, followed by an entitlement to half pay for the second six months. I 
understand then that following the end of Mr Ns policy deferred period of 26 weeks, he was 
receiving half pay from his employer. Taking into account the relevant policy terms, together 
with the available information about Mr Ns pre-incapacity earnings and his sick pay, Im 
satisfied that Phoenix did calculate whether any benefit was due, in line with the policy 
terms. And based on that calculation, I find that it was fair for Phoenix to determine that Mr 
Ns sick pay was more than the maximum hed be entitled to under the policy.
Phoenixs handling of the claim
Its clear that Mr N feels strongly that he was misled by Phoenix into believing that hed be 
paid benefit after the end of his deferred period. Phoenix acknowledges that its call handlers 
may have given Mr N this impression. So I can understand how disappointing and frustrating 
it must have been for Mr N when he learned, some months after making the claim, that he 
wasnt entitled to benefit after all.
I appreciate Mr N feels that as a result of Phoenixs actions, he lost out on around £10,000 of 
gross salary in July and August. As the investigator explained, as Mr N wasnt contractually 
entitled to benefit, I dont think I could fairly direct Phoenix to pay him monthly benefit in lieu 
of his full pay during this period. Even if Phoenix had told him earlier that his sick pay 
entitlement exceeded the policy benefit, it isnt at all clear that Mr N would have been well 
enough to return to work sooner than he did. Nonetheless, I agree with our investigator that Phoenixs actions did cause Mr N a loss of 
expectation that his claim would be paid. And I think too that Phoenix had likely had enough 
information to determine the outcome of the claim some time earlier than it did. This put Mr 
N to additional time in trouble in chasing up progress and in obtaining information. So I think 
its fair and appropriate that Phoenix should compensate Mr N for the impact its actions had 
on him. Having thought about everything carefully, Im persuaded that £300 total 
compensation is a fair award to reflect the distress and inconvenience Phoenixs handling of 
the claim caused Mr N.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Phoenix Life Limited to pay Mr N a total of £300 compensation (less any amount its 
already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman