DRN-4175549
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Leasys UK Ltd refused to waive three months payments.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract hire 
agreement with Leasys.
Mr H experienced issues with the car and it was returned to the dealership for repairs. Mr H 
was without the car for around three months whilst the repairs were carried out. During this 
time, he was provided with a courtesy car.
Mr H raised a complaint with Leasys about the quality of the car. He also sought 
compensation for the time hed been without the car.
On 2 January 2023 Leasys acknowledged that Mr H had been without his car from 20 
September 2022 to 13 December 2022. It said he had been provided with a courtesy car 
during this time and offered him a refund of 50% of the monthly instalments made during this 
time (£259.93).
Mr H responded on 9 January 2023 and said he didnt accept the offer of £259.93. He said 
he wanted three months instalments (£519) waived as well as £65 compensation for extra 
fuel hed used in the courtesy car. Mr H said that once he had received this amount, he 
would re-instate his direct debit.
Leasys responded on 13 January 2023 and offered a refund of two months instalments 
(£346). Mr H responded the same day and asked Leasys to deposit £346 into his account. 
He said he would reinstate his direct debit as soon as he received his compensation.
Leasys didnt waive Mr Hs payments, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
disputed Leasys demands for three months rental charges and said hed made it clear in his 
email dated 9 January 2023 that he wouldnt be paying rentals for three months. Mr H said 
he'd accepted the compensation of £346 based on three months rentals being waived as 
well.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said they couldnt see any evidence to 
suggest that Leasys had agreed to waive three monthly payments as well as paying 
compensation of £346. The investigator said the offer of £346 was fair because Mr H had 
been kept mobile during the period his car was being repaired.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed asked Leasys (in his email dated 9 January 2023) to be 
reimbursed for three months instalments as well as monetary compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the emails which passed between Mr H and Leasys.
Based on what Ive seen, its clear that Mr H rejected Leasys first offer of £259 
compensation. In his email dated 9 January 2023, Mr H wrote:
I would like to be reimbursed the full 3 month of my instalment plan which is 519 GBP and 
not to be charged for these 3 months at 173 GBP a month. I will not accept a 50% 
compensation of my instalment plan as originally suggested. With the 65 GBP incurred in 
extra fuel charges, this brings the total compensation to 584 GBP. Once Ive received this 
amount I will reinstate my direct debit of 173 GBP.
When Leasys replied to Mr H on 13 January 2023 it said:
I have spoken to Leasys and they have agreed to offer you £346 at 2 monthly instalments 
instead of the previous offer. We would not be able to offer you 3 monthly instalments as you 
were in a courtesy vehicle. We have increased our offer to £346.00 please let me know your 
thoughts.
Mr H responded to this email and said:
Hi. Sure, ok, please deposit £346 into my account details provided and I will reinstate my 
direct debit mandate as soon as Ive received my compensation.
Having reviewed these emails, I havent found any evidence to suggest that Leasys agreed 
to waive three monthly payments as well as paying £346 compensation. Further, I can see 
that Mr H accepted the offer of £346.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant say that there was an agreement that Leasys would pay 
£346 compensation and waive three monthly payments.
Ive considered the compensation paid to Mr H. I think the sum of £346 (two months rentals) 
is fair and reasonable, taking into account that Mr H was provided with a courtesy car 
throughout the period that his car was in for repair.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dint uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman