DRN-3112914
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint. The CMC say that Mr and Mrs C were given unsuitable advice by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to invest into two capital guaranteed bonds when they had 
no investment experience. 
The CMC say that they should have been advised to invest into fixed rate bonds given their 
attitude to risks and investment experience.
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs C met with advisor from NatWest and were advised to invest £6,000 
into two capital guaranteed bonds making a total of £12,000 invested.
One of the bonds matured in 2010 with a value of £6,000 and the other bond matured in 
2013 with a value of £6,900.
The CMC complained to NatWest in 2020. The complaint points can be summarised as:
Mr and Mrs C were inexperienced investors with no knowledge of the stock market and 
the investments sold were complex and ultimately a bet on the future performance of the 
FTSE100
Mr and Mrs C were unable to make an informed choice on the likelihood of the products 
making a return greater than risk free options that were available 
The maximum return of one of the bonds was limited even in favourable market 
conditions 
Returns from a savings plan would have achieved better returns than the capital 
guaranteed bonds
NatWest investigated the complaint but felt that the complaint had been brought about too 
late and said it wasnt a complaint they could look at.
The CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of our ombudsmen looked at 
whether it was a complaint that we could look at. The ombudsman confirmed that as the 
CMC had brought the complaint to the service within three years of Mr and Mrs C becoming 
aware that they had cause for complaint, it was a complaint that we could look at.
NatWest investigated the merits of the case but didnt think that they had done anything 
wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
The CMC asked the service to consider the merits of the case and one of our investigators 
looked at the complaint. The investigator thought that NatWest had acted unfairly and upheld 
the complaint. The investigators view was that NatWest advised Mr and Mrs C to take a risk 
with a large part of their available funds. The investigator thought that they would have better 
advised to invest into a fixed rate bond which would have provided Mr and Mrs C with a 
guaranteed return with no risk.
Unhappy with the investigators view, NatWest asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 September 2021.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I was not upholding the complaint. I asked both parties 
to send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 21 October 2021. 
Both parties replied ahead of the deadline. NatWest did not have any further comments and 
the CMC replied with comments that I will address in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should not 
succeed. Ill set out a summary of my conclusions below.
In his view, the investigator said that although Mr and Mrs C had no previous investment 
experience, the fact find carried out by NatWest suggested that they were open to a certain 
degree of risk, but he thought that they wouldnt have been fully aware of the risk of only 
receiving a minimal or even nil return on their investments.
The investigator thought that the investments werent suitable for Mr and Mrs C and that a 
fixed rate bond would have been better suited. He said that this would have provided a 
guaranteed return of interest that would have been similar, if not higher than the investments 
recommended.
In their submission to the service, NatWest have said that the investigators comments on 
likely performance were based on the benefit of hindsight rather than on the evidence that 
was available at the time of advice in 2007. 
I think that this is an important point that NatWest has made. The complaint that has been 
brought before the service is whether the advice was suitable based on Mr and Mrs Cs 
personal and financial circumstances at the time. In looking at the complaint I must do the 
same in looking at the available information at the time and decide if the recommendations 
made by NatWest were reasonable and appropriate.
The CMC have challenged this point saying that the return of a fixed rate bond was known at 
the time of the sale. I acknowledge this and agree that it is likely that the fixed rate bond 
returns would have been known at the time.
My point is that the future performance of the bonds that were recommended were not 
known at the point of sale and the final comparison of returns of the two investments was not 
possible.
I think that NatWest looked at possible alternatives and considered that the guaranteed 
bonds were suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs personal circumstances and investment objectives.
When a business recommends an investment, it must consider the consumers personal and 
financial circumstances. This will involve looking at how much they can afford to invest and 
any liabilities outstanding. The business should also consider the consumers attitude to risk 
and make recommendations that match this risk tolerance.NatWest conducted a fact find to assess Mr and Mrs Cs personal and financial 
circumstances and to establish their financial objectives. On 15 June 2007, NatWest wrote to 
Mr and Mrs C with a summary of this information. I can see that their financial circumstances 
were recorded which showed that Mr and Mrs C had available savings to invest. From what I 
have seen, I think Mr and Mrs C could afford to invest.
Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk is recorded as looking to beat cash returns and inflation and 
were willing to invest a longer investment period and some uncertainty to achieve this. It was 
also noted that they preferred the original amount to be guaranteed at the end of term and 
accepted the risk of loss in early encashment.
Mr and Mrs C described their attitude to risk as a category 2 which states I understand the 
relationship that exists between risk and reward. My aim is to achieve greater returns over 
the longer term than interest paying accounts and I am therefore prepared to accept the risk 
of possibly losing some of my money and to see some fluctuations in value. 
NatWest recommended that Mr and Mrs C invest £6,000 into two capital guaranteed bonds. 
They said that this was suitable in meeting their objectives and attitude to risk as it provides 
for capital growth together with a guaranteed minimum maturity value of 100% of the amount 
invested at the end of the fixed term.
The suitability letter that Mr and Mrs C received said that they should read again the Key 
Features document that had been provided and some important points were re-stated in the 
letter.
In deciding whether the recommendations were suitable for Mr and Mrs C I need to consider 
two important points  were the investments suited to their needs and objectives and were 
the risks fully explained so that they could make an informed decision. I will answer these in 
turn.
were the investments suited to their needs and objectives?
Mr and Mrs C didnt want to risk their capital and wanted to beat cash returns and inflation. 
They were willing to invest for a longer investment period.
The brochures for both investments say that say that the bonds were guaranteed to return 
the initial investment, so this suited the needs of Mr and Mrs C who didnt want to risk their 
initial capital sum.
Mr and Mrs C wanted an investment to beat cash returns and inflation and the bonds gave 
them this possibility. I acknowledge that the potential returns did rest on the performance of 
the stock market, but the bonds were designed with this in mind.
The CMC have said that Mr and Mrs C were inexperienced investors and were sold complex 
products. I have considered this point and although I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs C did not 
have any previous investment experience, this doesnt mean that higher risk investments 
would not be suitable.
On the face of it, the recommendations made by NatWest appear to have matched the 
needs and objectives of Mr and Mrs C so I cant see that they are unsuitable based on this 
point.
were the risks fully explained so that they could make an informed decision?In providing advice, NatWest needed to explain how the investments worked and in what 
circumstances would returns be made. The brochures for the bonds gave information on 
how they would operate and how returns were possible compared to the performance of the 
stock market. 
NatWest have said in their submission that the brochures for both investments explained 
how the investments would need to perform for returns to be made. I have looked at this 
information and although the bonds would need to perform at a certain level against the 
stock market, I feel that the risks were clearly documented to Mr and Mrs C.
The CMC have challenged this point and do not accept the information on true risks were 
made clear to Mr and Mrs C. I disagree, I think that the documentation that was sent to Mr 
and Mrs C about the investments was fair, clear and not misleading.
The decision to invest was ultimately with Mr and Mrs C and I can see from the Suitability 
Letter that they chose to proceed with the recommendation. 
One of the main points that the CMC has raised is that Mr and Mrs C should have been 
advised to invest into fixed rate bonds as this would have guaranteed their initial capital sum 
and provided a better rate of return that they ultimately received.
I can understand why the CMC has raised this point, but I think that this is with the benefit of 
hindsight. The risks of investing were highlighted in the key features brochure for the two 
bonds and this meant that depending of the performance of the stock market, they may not 
have achieved the returns that were possible.
I need to consider the complaint from the time the recommendations were made by the 
advisor at NatWest. In their submission, NatWest have said that the historical data of the 
FTSE performance was strong and that it had significantly outperformed the rates offered by 
fixed rate bonds in the five years leading up to the advice.
I have considered this and although past performance is not a guide to future performance, 
historical information is often used as a source of data used by advisors as a tool when 
recommending investments.
NatWest have said that they were not advising on investments across the full range of the 
market and were only able to advise based on the investments available to them. They have 
said that the CMC are assessing investments now by comparison to fixed rate bonds and 
with the benefit of hindsight.
In summary, I think that NatWest considered the personal and financial circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs C and recommended investments that they thought would meet their financial 
objectives and in line with their stated attitude to risk. 
In addressing the CMCs complaint points, I think that the risks of investing were explained 
to Mr and Mrs C and even though they were inexperienced investors, the guaranteed 
investment bonds were suitable in the circumstances. I think that Mr and Mrs C were able to 
make an informed choice and they received the relevant information to enable them to do 
so.
I think Mr and Mrs C received information on how the bonds would work and it was down to 
them to agree with the recommendation.
I believe that the advice was suitable for their needs, but the overall performance of the 
stock market was not favourable during the time that Mr and Mrs C were invested. I cant blame NatWest for the underlying performance of the stock market and how the investments 
fared. Mr and Mrs C had invested during the banking crisis and this would have been 
unforeseen by NatWest at the time the advice was given.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman