DRN-2064883
The complaint
Miss B complains that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance mis-
sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by in 2011. 
What happened
Miss B applied for a loan to buy a car. She said she felt pressured to buy the PPI in May 
2011 during the telephone sale. She had earlier declined PPI when she applied for the 
loan. So Miss B concludes the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that Miss B had a pre-
existing medical condition, so the policy was not suitable for Miss B and she hadnt been 
given enough clear information to make an informed choice. 
Close Brothers disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note 
on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint for the reasons set out below.
Close Brothers said the PPI was bought from a sales representative during a telephone call. 
It was an advised sale so Close Brothers had to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss 
B and it had to give Miss B enough clear information so she could make an informed choice.
Close Brothers produced a copy of the PPI policy and a copy of the sale call recording. 
Close Brothers said their adviser did enough to tell Miss B about the exclusion clause in 
the policy and that he told her it would not cover her pre-existing medical condition 
unless she had been symptom free for a period of two years before the date of the 
claim.
I have looked at the PPI policy, and it says that not only must Miss B have been 
symptom free for two years, but it also says she should not have consulted or arranged 
to consult a doctor about the pre-existing medical condition during that two year period.
I listened to the recording very carefully. After the adviser asked Miss B if she had a pre-
existing medical condition, Miss B said yes. The adviser then explained about the 
exclusion clause not covering her medical condition unless she had been symptom free 
for two years. He did not get any further because Miss B talked over the adviser at that 
point to ask if she had to have the PPI, and then the conversation moved away from the 
exclusions and he did not tell her about the rest of the exclusion clause during the call.
This is important because Miss B has confirmed her pre-existing medical condition was 
first diagnosed in 2006 and it continued until November 2011. I dont need to go into the 
detail of Miss Bs medical condition in this decision as Close Brothers is already aware of 
it; but she may have needed further medical advice after November 2011. The possible 
effect is that Miss B wouldnt have been covered by the PPI policy if she needed to make 
a claim for the pre-existing medical condition before November 2013; she had to be 
symptom free for two years before the date of the claim and should not have consulted a 
doctor during that period. Considering the recurring nature of her medical condition, she 
may have needed to consult or arranged to consult a doctor before November 2013. 
So I think it is possible that Miss B may have continued with her purchase without being 
aware of the full detail of the exclusion clause. I think the adviser ought to have revisited 
the subject especially as Miss B had confirmed she had a pre-existing medical condition. 
So I think Close Brothers did something wrong in the way it sold PPI to Miss B.
I think the exclusion clause meant the policy was not suitable for Miss Bs needs and this 
clause should have been highlighted to her more clearly. I am satisfied that Close Brothers 
probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear way to Miss B during the sale. As 
a result, this was a failing in the sale. I think that if Miss B had been properly informed 
about the exclusion, she wouldnt have gone ahead with buying the PPI policy given her 
medical circumstances at the time.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold to Miss B, so I uphold this 
complaint. I think Close Brothers has to put things right for Miss B.
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited should put Miss B in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI. So Close Brothers Limited should:
Refund all the PPI premiums to Miss B
Pay 8%simple interest on the premiums calculated from when each payment was 
made to the day when Miss B gets the refund*
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy and/or received a payment 
for high commission, Close Brothers Limited can take off what she got for the claim 
and/or for the high commission from the amount it owes her.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Close Brothers Limited must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Close Brothers Limited should put 
things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman