DRN-2834726
The complaint
Mr M and Ms L complain that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold them a mortgage a 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr M and Ms L bought a MPPI policy which started in 2008 to protect their mortgage
repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting in one of Barclays branches whilst they
were arranging a mortgage. Mr M was covered only against accident, sickness and
unemployment.
Mr M and Ms L believe Barclays mis-sold the policy. They say they were told they had to 
have the MPPI policy in order to get the mortgage.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Ive decided provisionally to not uphold Mr M and Ms Ls complaint because of the following
reasons:
Ive looked at what they said about how the policy was sold  including that they were
told they had to have MPPI in order to obtain the mortgage. But I think, after considering
the documentation provided, it is most likely that they were advised it was a good idea to
have the insurance to protect their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that
advice.
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have suggests to me
that the policy was presented as optional and a recommendation was made. I have
seen a welcome letter that was sent to Mr M and Ms L that says thank you for applying
for mortgage care... On this same letter it says the following please find enclosed the
following documents: Statement of demands and needs for Mr M. Our records of your
requirements relating to the insurance and confirms our recommendation and your
decision whether to accept or decline our recommendation. When I see this statement,
it shows me that although I cant be sure what was said in the meeting, it is more likely
they were given a choice to have MPPI, rather than be told they had to have it.
I have read through what Mr M and Ms L have said but their recollections are not
detailed although this is completely understandable considering how many years ago
the sale took place. So, because of this, and because of what I have seen in the sales
documentation provided, I am persuaded that they were given a choice to have the
MPPI policy.
Moving on, I think Barclays recommended the MPPI to Mr M and Ms L, but it doesnt
look as if it was unsuitable for Mr M (as the sole policy holder) based on what Ive seen
of his circumstances at the time. Mr M says he had at least 3 months sick pay, but the
benefits provided by the policy would have paid out in addition to his provisions, over an
extended period in a difficult time. Mr M didnt have enough provisions that I can see at
the time of sale that would have meant he wouldnt have had at least some use of the
benefit offered by them having the cover. I can also see no other reasons such as a
significant or restrictive term that would make the policy unsuitable.
I cant be sure what Barclays told Mr M and Ms L about the costs of the policy at the
time of sale. But even if they were given clear information about this, I dont think it
would have changed their decision to buy it for the same reasons why I think the policy
was suitable. It was reasonably priced compared to similar policies available at the time
and to the monthly mortgage repayment. And Mr M and Ms L could have cancelled the
PPI if it did become unaffordable.
It is possible Barclays didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its
unlikely they wouldve been affected by any of these based on their circumstances at
the time.
I acknowledge the points made by Mr M and Ms L but they do not change my decision for
the reasons given. I know this will come as a disappointment to them, but in conclusion I
currently do not uphold their complaint.
 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Barclays responded and said it has no further comments to make. 
Mr M and Ms L have not responded by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has not made any further points and Mr M and Ms L have not responded. So, as 
neither party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr M and Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman