DRN-1635166
 
The complaint
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct bank) carried out a remediation exercise on some 
of its mortgage accounts in May 2019 as it realised it had set the monthly payments too high 
when the mortgages were taken out. This had led to some customers overpaying their 
mortgages.
Whilst HSBC has corrected Mr K and Mrs Zs mortgage account and paid them £100 
compensation, Mr K and Mrs Z think thats not enough as they say theyve lost confidence in 
the bank.
What happened
HSBC reviewed Mr K and Mrs Zs mortgage account in May 2019 and realised it had set 
their monthly payment £13.05 higher than it should. As 39 payments had been made since 
the mortgage started this meant Mr K and Mrs Z had overpaid by £508.95.
HSBC wrote to Mr K and Mrs Z to advise them of the error, apologised and set out what the 
new (lower) monthly payment would be going forward taking into account the overpayment.
Upon receipt of the letter Mr K phoned HSBC to complain. He said he wanted compensation 
and the option to come out of his mortgage contract without incurring an early repayment 
charge (ERC).
HSBC again apologised for the mistake and offered £50 compensation. It also said Mr K and 
Mrs Z could have the overpayment back, but that would mean their mortgage balance (and 
therefore the monthly payments) would increase. It said it wouldnt waive the ERC.
Mr K and Mrs Z didnt accept that, so HSBC looked at things again. It offered a further 
apology and increased its offer of compensation to £100. Mr K accepted that, and the 
compensation was paid to his bank account, then a few months later he referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said the compensation offered by HSBC was fair and didnt recommend any 
further action. Mr K and Mrs Z didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC admitted it made a mistake and it carried out the work needed to put it right, so all 
thats left for me to decide is how much  if anything  should be paid to Mr K and Mrs Z as 
compensation for that.
Mr K and Mrs Z have said in a recent email to our investigator that HSBC only came up with 
the error following a phone call Mr K made to ask if he could make overpayments to pay the 
mortgage off sooner. I dont know when Mr K made that call as it hasnt been mentioned 
before, but I can reassure Mr K and Mrs Z that it had no bearing on HSBC noticing the 
mistake. HSBC undertook a major review of first direct mortgage accounts (not just Mr K and 
Mrs Zs one) as this was an issue that affected many customers. That would have happened 
irrespective of the call Mr K says he made. HSBC noticed the mistake and put it right before 
Mr K and Mrs Z were even aware of it; sending out a letter to confirm the mistake, apologise 
for it and explaining what the new (lower) monthly payments would be.
Mr K and Mrs Z say theyve no trust in HSBC as they think itll make other mistakes. I cant 
promise that wont happen, but if any mistakes are made in the future then Ive no reason to 
believe HSBC wont put them right, just as it did here.
Mr K has suggested we should take into account the amount of time he spent as a 
self-employed person as he says hes lost hours and hours of time on the phone with HSBC. 
Hes said we should  ask them to pay for all the time I have lost in order for them to rectify 
the mistake. But he didnt have to do that. HSBC identified the problem and put it right 
before Mr K and Mrs Z were even aware of it. Mr K and Mrs Z could simply have accepted 
that and continued with their mortgage as normal (albeit with a new lower monthly payment), 
so it would be highly inequitable for me to compensate Mr K and Mrs Z for the time theyve 
spent on it, as they simply didnt have to. That was a choice Mr K and Mrs Z made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K and Mrs Z to accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman