DRN-4462627
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about Close Brothers Limited trading as Braemar Finances (Braemar) 
decision not to meet a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75) in respect of a fixed sum loan agreement she took out with them. 
What happened
Mrs Y entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Braemar in June 2017 to fund dental 
treatment for her niece, Miss M, with a dental facility (who I shall refer to as C). 
Unfortunately, before the treatment could be completed on Miss M, C went out of business. 
Miss M complained to Braemar about this, and they initially gave her two options. The first 
was for Miss M to choose a dentist to complete the treatment from their approved list, for 
which Braemar offered to cover that cost. And the second option was for Miss M to arrange 
for a dentist to complete the treatment, for which Braemar offered to refund money to her to 
help pay for this.
However, Braemar subsequently sent Mrs Y a letter explaining there was no section 75 
provision because one of the requirements for a valid claim hadnt been met. They said the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship had not been made out because the dental 
treatment was supplied to Miss M and not Mrs Y. Braemar though offered to write off the 
remaining balance of £1,879.77 from Mrs Ys agreement with them.
Our investigator felt Braemars interpretation of their liability under section 75 was correct but 
said compensation was warranted for Mrs Y as they had given her and Miss M the 
impression they would settle the claim and put things right, only to withdraw this. She felt 
Braemars offer to write off the remaining balance was a reasonable way to settle the 
complaint. But she recommended that Braemar return any payments to Mrs Y that shed 
made since March 2023 and to ensure her credit file shows that the agreement was settled 
in March 2023 and to remove any adverse information recorded since then. 
Braemar subsequently told our investigator they had acted on her recommendation as set 
out by her. Mrs Y didnt though agree with our investigators view and said she would provide 
her reasons. However, these havent been received by us despite our investigator extending 
the time to allow Mrs Y to provide them. 
Mrs Ys complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to say that I appreciate that this has been a very difficult situation for Mrs Y and 
Miss M. I am aware of the reason why Miss M needed the dental treatment and understand 
this has continued to have a significant impact on her and on Mrs Y as the treatment hasnt 
been completed. I truly empathise with them and I also understand why they would be 
frustrated with how Braemar has handled this situation.
In deciding though what I think Braemar should do to resolve Mrs Ys complaint, I must have 
regard to any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section 75. This provides that 
in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of goods or services. 
But there are certain criteria that also need to be satisfied, which includes establishing a 
direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier. The credit agreement 
here is clearly between Mrs Y and Braemar as she is named on it as the borrower. This 
means that the credit provided by Braemar must have financed a transaction between the 
debtor (Mrs Y) and the supplier (C). 
The supply agreement with C shows that the treatment was for Miss M and, of course, that 
isnt in dispute. This means though that the supply contract was between C and Miss M, 
rather than between C and Mrs Y. Mrs Y may have had a hand in identifying and negotiating 
with C. But Ive not seen enough to make me think this involvement was enough to join her 
in on the supply contract in this case. This is because of the nature of the service being 
provided which I cannot reasonably say was for Mrs Y. 
As such, the necessary relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier is not made 
out in this complaint. This means that Braemars decision to decline Mrs Ys claim under 
section 75 wasnt ultimately unreasonable.
However, its clear to me that Braemar didnt handle the claim appropriately. They 
corresponded with Miss M and made her and Mrs Y think they would help arrange for the 
treatment to be completed and to pay for that cost. Braemar accepts they didnt 
appropriately consider how section 75 applied (or more accurately, didnt apply). 
I find that Braemars actions in refunding Mrs Y the payments she made under the finance 
agreement from March 2023 and in writing off the remaining balance to be fair compensation 
for their poor handling of this situation. This was when Braemar told Mrs Y she had no valid 
claim under section 75. I realise this still leaves Miss M in a situation where her treatment 
hasnt been completed. Im afraid I cant though direct Braemar to do anything in respect of 
this bearing in mind my finding on the requirements of section 75. 
Im unsure whether Braemar has also arranged to record information about this loan 
agreement on Mrs Ys credit file as our investigator recommended. If they havent done so, 
they now need to as this is a fair way to resolve that particular aspect. Braemar should 
record the agreement as being settled as of March 2023 and to remove any adverse 
information recorded since then
In closing, Ill just add that Ive seen that Mrs Y has mentioned a letter she received from 
Braemar about being incorrectly charged interest under the agreement. If Mrs Y wishes to 
pursue this matter, she needs to raise this to Braemar as a separate complaint in the first 
instance. 
Putting things right
Braemar should, if they havent already done so, refund the repayments Mrs Y made under 
the loan agreement from March 2023. They should also write off any remaining balance 
once this has been done. And they should ensure that Mrs Ys credit file is updated to show 
that this agreement was settled in March 2023 with no adverse information recorded since then. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Close Brothers Limited trading as Braemar Finance to take 
the action Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman