DRN-3389689
The complaint
Mr N complains that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (Liberty Mutual) have mishandled 
his landlords insurance claim. 
Liberty Mutual use intermediaries to administer their insurance policy and manage claims on 
their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it in part for the reasons given below:
Mr N does not consider that Liberty Mutual has settled his claim correctly as they 
have failed to cover his loss of rent in addition to the malicious damage caused by his 
tenants. I appreciate that the policy schedule states that Mr N has £5,000 worth of 
cover for landlords white goods under the buildings section of cover, and £10,000 
overall for contents claims. But claims under these sections are still subject to the 
policy terms and conditions. 
In terms of malicious damage, the policy terms and conditions set out the maximum 
that will be paid for any such claim: We will not payfor loss or damage in excess of 
£5,000 which your lodgers or tenant have caused, allowed, chosen to overlook or not 
reported to the police. If you claim for such loss under Sections One and Two, we will 
not pay more than £5,000 in total. 
Loss of rent is covered under the policy. But its clear from the terms and conditions 
that any malicious damage claims will be subject to an overall limit of £5,000 across 
both section one (buildings) and section two (contents) of the policy, whereby loss of 
rent falls within section one. So, given the primary reason for Mr Ns loss of rent was 
the malicious damage caused by the tenants (which meant it couldnt be re-let until it 
had been refurbished), I dont consider the insurer to have acted unfairly declining to 
pay an additional amount for loss of rent because the malicious damage limit of 
£5,000 had already been exceeded. 
Mr N says he was informed by CIA Insurance Services (his broker) that his loss of 
rent would be covered given that his malicious damage claim had been accepted. 
However, the respondent to this complaint in this instance is the insurer Liberty 
Mutual, with regards to their handling of the claim  not CIA Insurance Services. If 
Mr N is unhappy with any misinformation given by his broker, he would need to 
complain directly to them, as CIA Insurance Services do not manage claims on 
behalf of Liberty Mutual. So, I cannot consider or comment on any acts or omissions 
of the broker within this decision. 
However, while I dont consider that Liberty Mutual ought to have covered the loss of 
rent claim, I do think that their overall handling of the claim has been poor. I can see, 
for example, that Mr N has had to chase the insurer numerous times to get an update 
on the progress of his claim, to which he often failed to receive a response or any 
acknowledgment at all. I also consider that the claim could have been settled much 
sooner than it was as well. I understand that the insurer had to request further 
information, but it didnt require several months in order to finalise the settlement. 
Mr N has also said that Liberty Mutual has discriminated against him on the grounds 
of his race. I appreciate that Mr N feels he hasnt been treated fairly by the insurer 
and their agents, and I can understand why. But I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence to suggest that this was an act of discrimination on the grounds of Mr Ns 
race. 
However, I appreciate that Liberty Mutuals handling of Mr Ns claim has caused him 
distress and inconvenience due to the delays he experienced, as well as the poor 
communication. The investigator recommended an award of £250 in recognition of 
the poor service he received, which I also consider to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Liberty Mutual Insurance 
Europe SE to pay £250 to Mr N in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman