DRN-2083100
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Miss C. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1998 alongside a store credit account. Miss 
C was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss Cs representative 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Miss C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Miss C signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and a box has been ticked 
to confirm she wanted the PPI. Miss C says the salesperson did this  but I can see Miss C 
signed to confirm she wanted the PPI. So I think she most likely knew shed bought it, and 
despite what she now recalls, it was most likely clear it was optional.
Miss C says the PPI wasnt explained properly. It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the 
PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Cs individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Miss C to decide whether it 
was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Miss C clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to 
Miss C. I accept that Miss Cs representative says that without knowing exactly what 
information was provided, its impossible to say what Miss Cs decision would have been. 
But I have thought carefully about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. Given Miss Cs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I still dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman