DRN-2648504
The complaint
Mr As complained that he was charged a fee by Goldman Smith Claims Management Ltd 
(GSCM) when he didnt think he should have been.
What happened
In early 2016, Mr A signed a letter of authority allowing GSCM to act on his behalf in trying to 
recover payment protection insurance (PPI) hed paid to a financial institution Ill call B.  
GSCM submitted claims to B to recover PPI relating to a loan and to a credit card.  In April 
2016, B made an offer in respect of the loan, which Mr A accepted.  And GSCM received 
their fee for this.
GSCM continued to pursue Mr As claim for the PPI relating to his credit card and sent him 
updates by text message.  In July 2020, B wrote to GSCM advising them that theyd made a 
payment to Mr A two years before, in mid-2018.  
After they got this information from B, GSCM sent Mr A an invoice for £241.50.  Because 
they didnt know how much Mr A had received, they calculated their invoice by charging an 
hourly rate for the work theyd done.
Mr A complained to GSCM.  He said it wasnt fair for them to charge him because hed 
already paid them.  He told GSCM that another claims management company had pursued 
the claim and he didnt think he should have to pay GSCM, as their work hadnt led to him 
receiving a payment.
GSCM rejected Mr As complaint.  They said Mr A had signed their terms and conditions, in 
which he agreed not to appoint anyone else in relation to his claim.  And hed not told them 
hed received a payment.  They said Mr A had had the benefit of the work theyd done  so it 
was fair for them to charge him.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with GSCMs response, so he brought his complaint to us.  He told us 
GSCM had already been paid for what theyd done  so he didnt think they were entitled to 
charge him any more. Our investigator looked into it and concluded that GSCM didnt need 
to do anything differently.  He was satisfied that they were entitled to charge Mr A  and that 
theyd done so in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr A responded to the investigator by providing further documents.  These didnt change the 
investigators view.  But they did confirm the amount of the payment he received from B in 
2018.  When GSCM found out that amount, they reduced Mr As invoice to a total of £199.22 
- the amount theyd have received if theyd been notified of the claim plus the cost of a letter 
before action.
Mr A didnt accept the reduction.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr As questioning whats happened here Hes told us that GSCM 
have already been paid for what they did for him  so he doesnt think they should charge 
him again.
But I dont think Mr As fully considered the terms and conditions he signed.  Ive looked at 
those.  The section about GSCMs fees says:
Where your PPI claim is successful, Our Fees will be 30% plus VAT of the Settlement 
Amount.
In Mr As case, he received a settlement from B in 2016.  And he received a second 
settlement in 2018.  The terms and conditions are clear that GSCMs fees are due in the 
event a claim is successful.  So two successful claims mean two payments are due to 
GSCM.
Ive seen Mr A instructed a second claims management company.  It was that company 
which was notified by B of the settlement in 2018.  Ive thought about whether that means 
GSCM isnt entitled to a second fee.
The second fee relates to a payment in respect of PPI attached to Mr As credit card.  GSCM 
submitted a claim for that.  Mr A says GSCM didnt write to him to keep him updated on the 
claim.  But Ive seen that GSCM sent him updates by text.  So Im satisfied that GSCM made 
Mr A aware that they were continuing to pursue that claim.  I dont think its reasonable to 
say the updates should have been by letter  or that GSCM shouldnt be paid because they 
werent.
And GSCMs terms and conditions reserve the right for them to be paid if they become 
aware that Mr A has pursued a claim without their assistance  as happened here.  The 
terms and conditions set out how their fees will be charged in those circumstances.  GSCM 
calculated their fees in accordance with the terms and conditions.  So Im satisfied they 
acted reasonably here.
During our investigation of Mr As complaint, he shared with us details of the 2018 payment.  
GSCM were also made aware of what he received.  GSCM noted that calculating their fee 
as a percentage of that award meant theyd receive less than they would by calculating their 
fee on a time spent basis.  So they reduced their invoice to the lower amount of £199.22.  
I think that was fair.  I know Mr As concerned that he cant afford to pay and I understand 
that.  But that doesnt mean GSCM have been unfair in charging him for the work they did.  
Id urge Mr A to contact GSCM to explore whether the parties can reach an agreement about 
to pay the £199.22 by instalments  because I dont think they need to do anything more to 
resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint about Goldman Smith 
Claims Management Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman