DRN-2789605
The complaint
Ms S complains about errors and delays when London and Country Mortgages Ltd applied 
for a mortgage on her behalf.
What happened
L&C recommended a mortgage to Ms S and made an application to the lender on her behalf. 
The lender sent a mortgage offer which said it expired on 30 April 2019. 
In late March and April 2019 Ms Ss solicitor asked for an updated mortgage offer as some 
details had changed. This became urgent as Ms S wanted to exchange contracts. In mid-
April Ms S was told the product shed chosen was no longer available as it had expired on 
31 March 2019. Ms S had to choose a new product before an updated mortgage offer could 
be issued. Ms S says L&C should have known this, and sorted out the problem sooner.
Ms S says L&Cs errors delayed her purchase, and she paid additional rent, storage and 
other costs as a result. She says the product she had to take out in April 2019 was more 
expensive than the one shed previously chosen.
L&C offered £100 for not dealing with the problem with the mortgage offer sooner.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said completion of Ms Ss purchase was delayed due to L&Cs error and this had 
resulted in Ms S incurring costs. I said L&C should compensate her for these costs and pay 
£300 for the upset and trouble this caused Ms S.
L&C pointed out that this wasnt a straightforward mortgage application. It accepted there 
was a delay in passing information to Ms S in April 2019. It didnt agree it should pay the 
costs Id suggested, as it didnt believe they were additional costs. It said Ms S would have 
incurred either rent or mortgage payments in May 2019, and had to pay council tax for either 
the rented house or the house she bought. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
What happened  in summary?
L&C recommended the mortgage to Ms S and made an application on her behalf in late 
2018. Ms S applied for a fixed interest product which was available until 31 March 2019. The 
lender issued a mortgage offer which expired on 31 March 2019.
Ms Ss purchase fell through. She found another property to buy. The lender issued a 
mortgage offer for the new property in late February 2019. This included the same fixed rate 
product Ms S had chosen in late 2018, and had a stated expiry date at the end of April 2019. 
This expiry date was an error: it should have said 31 March 2019, to tie in with the 
availability of the product.
While the lender said L&C should have known the expiry date was wrong, I dont think thats 
fair. However, the lender made L&C aware of the error on 5 April 2019.
On 5 April 2019 L&C called the lender to update Ms Ss address, so that an updated 
mortgage offer could be issued to allow Ms S to exchange contracts. The lender told L&C its 
the system wouldnt allow her to choose that product as it expired on 31 March 2019. It said 
Ms S would need to choose a new product before it could issue an updated mortgage offer.
Theres no evidence L&C told Ms S this before 18 April. Ms S chose a new product that day
and exchanged contracts. Ms S completed her purchase in early May.
What were the consequences of L&Cs errors?
Ms S preferred the product shed first chosen, which included a £1,000 cashback. However, 
shed have needed to complete her purchase by 31 March 2019 to benefit from the product 
she wanted. Theres nothing here to suggest that Ms S could have completed by 31 March 
2019. So I dont think L&Cs error meant Ms S missed out on the product she wanted. For 
completeness, Id also point out that while the product she did take out didnt offer any 
cashback, it was fee free, so the fee wasnt added to the mortgage loan. Overall, this product 
is less expensive than the product Ms S had chosen.
We asked the lender if there were products available between 5 and 17 April, and which 
werent available on 18 April. It sent a list of the products available and none expired 
between 5 and 18 April. So I dont think Ms S missed out on a better product due to the 
delay.
Ms S says exchange and completion on her purchase was delayed due to the error. She 
needed an updated mortgage offer to exchange contracts as shed changed address and the 
purchase price had changed  but the lender couldnt issue an updated offer until a new 
product was chosen.
Having read Ms Ss comments and the evidence she provided, I think its likely L&Cs error 
in not telling Ms S she needed to choose a new product did delay her completing her 
purchase before the end of April 2019.
Ms S says while the vendors preferred to complete in May, they agreed to complete before 
the end of April as this was when her mortgage offer expired (as she believed at the time). 
An email from the vendors solicitors to Ms Ss solicitor on 8 April 2019 said their clients 
needed two weeks to sort the move and therefore couldnt complete before 29 April. Ms S 
provided an email from her solicitor to the vendors solicitor on 8 April to say they were 
waiting for confirmation from Ms Ss lender that they could proceed to exchange. An email 
on 11 April to Ms S from her solicitor also says she was waiting for an updated offer from the 
lender before exchanging contracts.
So I think the vendors were prepared to complete in April, and exchange of contracts was 
delayed by the problem with the mortgage offer.
Ms S says she called the lender on 18 April as she was increasingly concerned about timing. 
This is when she found out she needed to choose a new product. A new mortgage offer was issued immediately once Ms S chose a new product. Ms S was able to exchange contracts, 
but says this didnt leave the vendors enough time to arrange their removals before the end 
of April. Completion was agreed for 3 May.
I think if L&C had told Ms S she needed to choose a new product in early April, shed have 
received a new mortgage offer immediately and most likely would have been able to 
exchange and complete by the end of April 2019.
Putting things right
Ms S says the delay meant she had to pay rent and council tax for the property she was 
renting for May 2019. Ms S provided evidence of her costs:
Agreed monthly rent of £660. Ms S provided a bank statement showing a £660 payment 
to the letting agents for the month of May made on 30 April 2019.
A letter from the local council confirming Ms S would be liable for council tax to the end 
of May even if the property was vacant from 3 May 2019.
Council tax invoice addressed to Ms S for the rental property, with the amount specified 
for the period 3 May to 30 May 2019 as £124. 
Ms S says she had additional storage costs but the amount was small. 
Ms S says she gave notice to terminate the rental agreement as at the end of April 2019. 
She had to ask to extend when it became clear completion would be delayed beyond the 
end of April. The letting agents would only agree to extend on a monthly basis, and so she 
had to pay rent and council tax for May 2019. Ms Ss purchase and mortgage completed on 
3 May. I think this rent and council tax is an additional cost as Ms S had to make mortgage 
payments and pay council tax for the property she bought for the month of May. I think L&C 
should compensate her for these additional costs, which total £784, plus interest at 8% 
simple a year from 1 May 2019 to the date of settlement.
I also think the problems with the product and the mortgage offer caused Ms S upset and 
trouble during a property purchase, which is often stressful in itself. I think £300 
compensation for this upset would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order London and Country Mortgages Ltd to pay 
to Ms S:
£784 plus interest at 8% simple a year from 1 May 2019 to the date of settlement*; and
£300.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires London and Country Mortgages Ltd to take off tax from 
this interest it must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman