DRN-3364375
The complaint
Miss S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to block and close her account, 
and the time they took whilst withholding her money. 
What happened
Miss S opened an account with Barclays in August 2021.
Throughout the next few months, Miss S received large payments into the account; so, 
Barclays decided to carry out a review in October 2021. While carrying out the review, 
Barclays blocked the account and asked Miss S for information relating to the credits 
received into the account.
In December 2021, Barclays made the decision to close Miss Ss account. They withheld the 
money which was left in it while they finalised their review. In January 2022, Miss S was able 
to withdraw the money which had been left in the account.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably. He was 
satisfied theyd followed their legal and regulatory obligations and didnt ask them to do 
anything differently. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said not having access to her money for four months was 
distressing and severely impacted her mental health; including making her feel suicidal. She 
also said she had to visit food banks and couldnt buy her family Christmas presents. Miss S 
wanted compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise this will come as a great disappointment to Miss S, Im not 
going to ask Barclays to do anything differently. Ive explained further below.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing relationship. That sometimes means they need to review and sometimes block 
customers accounts. Im satisfied Barclays reviewed and blocked Miss Ss account to meet 
these legal requirements. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong. 
Barclays have explained they reviewed things because of the amount of credits Miss S 
received into the account. I appreciate why she may have found this inconvenient, but 
Barclays must ensure they keep their due diligence checks updated at all times. I consider 
Barclays reason for reviewing the account reasonable. Im pleased to see Barclays asked 
Miss S to prove her entitlement to the money in the account, as this confirms they were 
carrying out necessary actions as part of their review. Im aware Miss S initially sent bank 
statements which Barclays werent satisfied with as these didnt confirm Miss Ss eligibility to 
the money. Miss S sent further documentation; and in the background Barclays completed 
their own investigations.
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Miss S decided to stop banking with Barclays, she 
wouldnt have to explain why. 
In January 2022, Barclays were able to release the money left in the account to Miss S. I 
appreciate Miss S thinks they should have released it before, but based on the evidence she 
sent, they werent satisfied of her entitlement to it. Having reviewed that evidence, I cant 
reasonably say Barclays were unfair in their actions.
I appreciate how distressing this situation must have been for Miss S  and Im really sorry to 
hear how it impacted her mental health, and her ability to buy gifts for her family. But Ive had 
to weigh that up against whether I think Barclays acted unreasonably  and in the 
circumstances of whats happened here, I dont think they did. So, I cant fairly ask them to 
pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman