DRN-3216936
The complaint
Mrs G complains that during 2020 she did not receive the service from H S Coleman 
(Insurance Services) Ltd (HSC) that she was paying for. She complains that she was initially 
told she had paid just over £4,000 in fees only to later discover she had paid over £9,500. 
She thought this was misleading and evidence that she hadnt been treated fairly. 
What happened
Mrs G had a portfolio of investments and pensions which HSC advised on and had overseen 
for a number of years. In 2021 Mrs G complained to HSC. She said that she didnt receive 
the service she had been accustomed to following the sudden departure of her longstanding 
adviser from HSC, and she considered that she was entitled to a refund of all the fees she 
paid during 2020  she estimated this was over £9,000. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Gs complaint. In short, she didnt consider it should 
be upheld. She found that HSC had been clear about what ongoing charges Ms G would be 
paying, including the fact that she was on a reduced rate as a result of her historical 
relationship with the firm. 
The investigator also found that HSC was clear with Mrs G about what she was paying and 
what service she was receiving in return. She thought Mrs G had clearly benefited from the 
ongoing advice and review service that HSC was providing, and she didnt agree that Mrs G 
should be refunded the fees she had paid. She acknowledged that Mrs G had looked to 
explore other arrangements with HSC to pay for its service, such as a fixed fee as a 
opposed to a percentage of her investments, but the investigator said that it wasnt for this 
service to comment on those kinds of matters. It was ultimately for HSC to decide how it 
wanted to be remunerated, and to be as clear and transparent as possible with Mrs G about 
that. 
The investigator also didnt agree that HSC should refund the fees Mrs G had paid simply 
because it had not produced a report for her in 2020. The investigator found that there was 
constant communication between Mrs G and HSC during 2020  and she thought it was 
clear that HSC had wanted to meet with Mrs G to discuss some important upcoming 
changes to her circumstances before recommending changes to her portfolio. The 
investigator found insufficient evidence to persuade her that HSC had ever committed to 
providing Mrs G with an annual report on her investments  and therefore didnt agree that 
her complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs G didnt agree. She said:
It was wrong for the investigator to have considered facts after 31 December 2020 as 
those were not relevant to her complaint. 
She didnt think it rang true that HSC provided ongoing advice, because in previous 
years she had always received comprehensive reports on how her investments had 
performed and recommendations as to what changes if any were needed. She said 
that those reports also set out details of the funds she was invested in. 
Mrs G didnt agree she had ever signed any fee agreement setting out a change to 
the service she had historically been getting from HSC. 
Fees from the Mrs Gs late husbands pension held with LV should not have been 
taken as the adviser from HSC did not provide any advice in respect of the 
investments held in that pension. In any event, Mrs G also didnt agree that she was 
getting ongoing advice in relation to the investments she held with Aviva as he 
merely replied to questions that she asked at various points during the year. 
Mrs G concluded by saying that she was not treated fairly. 
Before the case was passed to me, Mrs G said that she was assured by her previous 
adviser at HSC that the service shed be receiving when he left would be the same  why 
else would she have continued paying the same fees? She said that she had been 
accustomed to receiving yearly reports and meetings twice a year, and this was not the 
service she received in 2020. Mrs G said she was misled by the new adviser at HSC. She 
also said that HSCs failure to locate the original fee agreement she had signed (not the 
ones Mrs G said were supplemental to that main one) was a failing, and meant that HSC 
should not have been entitled to take any fees from her. 
Mrs G reiterated that during 2020 she was not provided with advice or the service she was 
paying for in respect of her investments with Aviva and LV. She considered this meant she 
was entitled to a full refund. 
HSC agreed with the investigator but provided some additional comments as well. In short it 
said:
Mrs G and her late husband had been clients of HSC for many years and they did not 
have any cause for complaint. 
Mrs G herself, as recently as December 2020, emailed HSC to underscore how 
happy shed been with the service and to confirm shed recommended HSCs 
services to a friend of hers. 
Mrs Gs relationship with HSC turned sour as a result of the previous owner of HSC 
being put on gardening leave. HSC said that Mrs G had a close personal relationship 
with them and it believed this was the cause of her dissatisfaction. 
It didnt agree that it was ever part of the service provided to Mrs G for her to receive 
annual reports  over and above reports which were provided, as necessary, when 
changes to her investments were recommended. 
It maintained that all times throughout Mrs Gs relationship with the firm, including 
during 2020, it provided her with the service she was paying it for  and in fact went 
over and above given her personal circumstances. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.There has been a great deal of correspondence on this case, from both Mrs G and HSC. Its 
clear to me that Mrs G feels very strongly about her complaint  but when looking at the 
service she was provided as a whole, I dont agree that she should be refunded the fees she 
paid HSC. 
I should start by assuring Mrs G that Ive read and considered all her detailed emails and 
letters to the investigator. But I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be 
responding to all the points she has raised in this correspondence, because thats not the 
purpose of this final decision. Instead, Im going to focus on what I consider the key issue in 
the complaint  whether HSC provided the ongoing service to Mrs G, during 2020, that it 
was being paid for. 
This means that I also wont be commenting on the points HSC has raised about the 
reasons why Mrs G is dissatisfied. Whilst I dont doubt what it has told this service about the 
background to the complaint, I dont intend to comment on the matters it has raised with the 
service. 
The investigator has already correctly explained to Mrs G that it isnt this services role to tell 
firms how much they should be charging for the services they provide  this is a matter that 
the regulator has left to the commercial discretion of individual firms. I do note that overall 
Mrs G was paying around 0.3% annually in fees, which is considerably lower than most 
other arrangements of this nature that Ive come across. I understand that the reason for this 
is because of the size of Mrs Gs overall investments which at the time were being overseen 
by the firm, as well as the fact that she had been a client of the firm for many years. 
In return for ongoing charges (which, for the avoidance of doubt, were being levied against 
investments held with the Aviva platform as well as LV), HSC provided Mrs G an ongoing 
service which it set out in various fee agreements which Mrs G and HSC signed throughout 
the years. Some of these agreements specifically related to individual recommendations, 
other related to an ongoing service  for example review of pension provision/drawdown 
including completion of full fact find, risk profile, analysis of funds including fund rebalancing. 
I can also see that HSC provided Mrs G with supplemental information about its services  
Ive seen a document from January 2018 which set out what service Mrs G could expect in 
return for an ongoing charge. This document says that the service included:
A review meeting once a year. 
Access to an adviser should one be needed in the meantime. 
In return for this service, Mrs G would pay 0.5% of the value of her portfolio  whilst Ive not 
seen evidence of when this arrangement was revised downwards, its not uncommon for 
customers with large portfolios or a long history with a firm to be given a more favourable 
rate. Im satisfied thats why overall Mrs G was paying less than 0.5%. 
The document also sets out its one off charges, including arranging or recommending 
changes to a portfolio or buying new investments. Im satisfied this document is clear in 
setting out what service HSC would provide to Mrs G, and what she could expect by way of 
charges. 
Mrs G has explained that one of the aspects of the service she considered she was entitled 
to, and which she didnt receive, was the production of an annual report setting out her 
investments and any changes. Ive not seen any reference to such routine reports in the fee 
agreements or explanations  and HSC has confirmed it has no record of providing such 
reports to her. Mrs G has provided a copy of a report from August 2018  and Ive received the same report from HSC. But this isnt a routine report  this is a suitability report that 
outlines Mrs Gs existing investments, her objectives, and some recommendations for 
changes to her funds. In other words, this report was produced because HSC was 
recommending Mrs G do something with her investments. Im not persuaded this report was 
evidence of HSC being committed to providing a document of this nature every year. 
This therefore brings me to the service Mrs G in fact received from HSC during 2020. Im not 
persuaded by Mrs Gs claim that shes entitled to a full refund of her fees  in my view such 
a claim is not fair and reasonable on HSC. Its clear to me that there was significant 
communication between HSC and Mrs G, most of it amicable and complimentary, and at 
least two meetings during which Mrs Gs investments were discussed. So even if I thought 
that HSC didnt fully provide the service it had committed to provide, it wouldnt follow that Id 
recommend a full refund of the fees Mrs G paid, because its clear to me that HSC did 
provide a service. 
But in considering the extent of the service it provided to Mrs G, Im satisfied it did what it 
said it would do. And Im also satisfied that whilst Mrs G has asked that I confine my review 
to 2020, I dont agree that would be a reasonable approach to take. I say this primarily 
because after their second meeting in October 2020, I can see that Mrs G was expecting 
some important financial developments  including the sale of some of her investment 
properties. Its clear to me that HSC considered it important to take into account these 
developments before recommending any particular changes to Mrs Gs existing investments. 
I dont consider that was unreasonable  and its for that reason that matters in early 2021 
are relevant. Im satisfied that HSC was simply intending on reviewing all of Mrs Gs 
circumstances and investments once the sales had gone through and Mrs G had decided 
whether to clear some of her existing mortgages, or retain the money for another purpose. 
That aside, Im also satisfied that HSCs conduct throughout 2020 was in line with the 
service it had agreed to provide Mrs G. I say this because:
I can see it contacted Mrs G in March 2020 to reassure her about her investments 
and her portfolio, and offering the option of seeking advice. 
There were a number of email exchanges in May 2020 around setting up a meeting 
and Mrs Gs satisfaction with HSC. A meeting was arranged to discuss a review of 
these [AVIVA funds] and discuss the best course of action according to your risk 
factor/medium to long term objectives. She was offered an online meeting as soon 
as possible to fully review her financial situation and discuss next steps. 
On 28 May 2020 HSC sent an email which followed up the meeting that was had 
shortly before it. This email set out some next steps  but crucially did not mention or 
suggest that a report would be provided. 
In October 2020 Mrs G met with HSC again, during which HSC noted that a full 
review of Mrs Gs overall financial situation needed to be completed once a property 
was sale was completed. A summary of this meeting was sent on 12 October 2020 
which showed the detailed discussions Mrs G had with her adviser about her 
financial circumstances, the properties she owned, tax for the upcoming year, her 
existing investments and her desire to stop taking her pension from LV given that she 
did not require an income at the time. 
The email also confirmed that Mrs G was looking to sell some of her properties in 
order to clear all her mortgages and she would be in touch with her adviser when she 
had made a decision about this. There was some further email correspondence between Mrs G and her adviser between 
October 2020 and January 2021 during which time my understanding is Mrs G was finalising 
the sale of some of her investment properties, and deciding what to do with the capital 
available. In January 2021 she received a financial planning report that set out her financial 
circumstances, her attitude to risk, and HSCs recommendations for new investment. 
Mrs G has discounted this report because she says it was only produced after she insisted 
she received advice on some additional money she wanted to invest  and she says it was 
provided in 2021, not 2020. But I dont agree with her. As Ive said above, HSC were not 
obliged to provide yearly reports to her  and as Ive said above, the report Mrs G provided 
to the service from August 2018 was a report produced because HSC was recommending 
some investments to her. The report she received in 2021 did the same  but it still set out 
all of her financial circumstances, details of the discussions she had with the adviser, details 
of her attitude to risk and details of her existing investments  including assets allocations 
and fund performance. 
And I note that in January 2021, she told HSC that was happy with your fees to continue as 
they are. Whilst this is not conclusive, it follows a similar email from her in December 2020 
in which she expected her satisfaction with the service and says that she had recommended 
HSC to a friend. 
In my view, this demonstrates that Mrs G was not in fact disappointed or surprised by the 
lack of service she had received. Given the tenor of Mrs Gs communications with HSC, and 
this service, Im persuaded Mrs G wouldve raised her dissatisfaction at not receiving a 
report she says she had received every year  but instead, she was complimentary of the 
service and evidently satisfied, at least until early 2021. 
So taking all this into account, Im persuaded that Mrs G is not entitled to a refund or partial 
refund of the fees she paid to HSC during 2020. In my view she received the service she 
was told she would receive in exchange for the fees she was paying, and she made good 
use of this service throughout the year. 
Im not persuaded the absence of a report being sent to Mrs G in 2020 is material  and I 
consider that, in any event, the delay in providing it was purely due to the advisers desire to 
ensure he could take into account any developments in Mrs Gs circumstances, including 
any property sales and redeemed mortgages, which he was aware would be happening 
between October and December 2020. This was good practice and in line with what was 
required of him in order to ensure that he provided Mrs G with suitable advice. 
Finally, Mrs G has specifically also referred to the pension she had with LV
Having reviewed all the correspondence between Mrs G and HSC, Im satisfied it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to ask it to compensate Mrs G, because I dont consider it has done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman