DRN-4007405
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont carry out further 
investigations or works under her Building Warranty following ongoing water ingress to her 
property.
What happened
Mrs W has had ongoing water ingress to her property intermittently over a number of years. 
This has been raised with NHBC each time, investigations have been completed along with 
previous works. However, Mrs W says the issue still hasnt been resolved by NHBC.
Complaints have been raised with NHBC by Mrs W and subsequently brought to this 
service.
Since those previous complaints, Mrs W has obtained a report outlining additional possible 
causes of the water ingress. She says NHBC should now appoint surveyors to investigate 
and carry out repair works. However, NHBC says the report concurs with their previous 
findings, so they maintained their overall position not to do anything further.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said that whilst she 
noted a new report had been completed, the previously identified suspected cause hadnt 
been rectified by Mrs W to establish if that resolved the water ingress. The investigator said 
if it was completed, and it didnt resolve the water ingress, NHBC would then consider this 
further at that stage. The investigator thought that was fair.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As outlined above, previous complaints have been made to NHBC and later brought to this 
service. I wont be revisiting these again as theyve already been considered previously by 
this service. But Ill summarise the outcome of those, before considering this current 
complaint.
The previous cases
An ombudsman colleague issued a final decision on the first complaint Mrs W brought to us. 
In summary he said:
NHBC needed to determine the cause of the water ingress, and consider whether it 
should have been addressed under the previous claim, or separate (and whether 
covered)
NHBC needed to pay Mrs W compensation for the overall service 
Following this, a second complaint was brought to this service by Mrs W after NHBC carried 
out investigations into the water ingress. In summary, the investigator concluded:
NHBC had fairly investigated matters following the previous final decision by carrying 
out an investigation, which identified lack of sealant as the cause of water ingress
The report completed several years prior also concluded a lack of sealant was the 
cause of the water ingress
The policy didnt provide cover, and a lack of sealant was a maintenance issue and 
not covered either, so NHBC didnt need to do anything further
This case
Since those previous cases, Mrs W has obtained a further report on the possible cause of 
water ingress to her property. She says this provides further conclusions on defects and 
NHBC now need to investigate and complete repairs.
NHBC says the report Mrs W has provided concurs with the previous reports - that a lack of 
sealant is causing water ingress. NHBC says this isnt covered under the policy, but 
previously as a gesture, NHBC offered a cash settlement to cover the cost of those works  
but theyve still not been completed so this is why water is still entering Mrs Ws property.
Mrs W says she doesnt consider sealant to be sufficient to hold back water ingress from 
storm weather, so this is why it hasnt been completed. Instead she says NHBC should now 
appoint qualified building design engineers to investigate further, commission a report and 
scheme of repair works, carry out those repairs and sign them off.
However, I agree with our investigator here. The recent report carried out does say one of 
the suspected causes of the water ingress is a lack of sealant. This concurs with findings in 
previous years too. Whilst not covered under the policy, NHBC has previously offered to pay 
a cash amount to have the sealant works completed as a gesture. But as mentioned, this 
hasnt yet been carried out.
Whilst I do recognise Mrs W doesnt think sealant works would stop water ingress during a 
storm, as this hasnt yet been carried out, it is unknown for certain whether this would 
resolve the water ingress or not. But without this being completed, I cant fairly conclude, on 
balance, that this isnt sufficient as it may resolve the ongoing ingress as concluded by 
NHBC. 
NHBC has said that if the sealant works are completed, and there is then still water ingress, 
then theyd consider that further. I dont think thats an unfair position in all the circumstances 
of the case, so Im not going to direct NHBC to do anything further at this stage.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman