DRN-4311846
The complaint
Ms R complains that TF Global Markets (UK) Limited t/a ThinkMarkets (TFGM) wrongfully 
voided the trades she made so that she lost the profit in her account.
What happened
Ms R opened an account with TFGM in September 2017 under which it provided an 
execution only brokering service and through which she traded Forex on its platform until 
TFGM suspended her account in November 2017. It then voided trades she had made and 
closed her account which resulted in her losing the profit standing in her account at the time 
of £18,000. She complained to TFGM about it voiding her trades. 
In its initial response to her complaint TFGM said that it had identified a number of orders 
trading in an arbitrary manner and referred to what it could do when trades were placed due 
to price latency or where accounts used arbitrage strategies. It said that it deemed the 
orders investigated by it were based on non-market prices and that, as such, under its terms  
it could void the trades. 
In its subsequent final response letter , TFGM repeated the reasons set out in its initial 
response as to why it had voided Ms Rs trades, referencing arbitrage trading, off-market 
trading and taking advantage of price latency. It said its terms and conditions prohibit such 
trading and that she had been trading in breach of the terms. 
Ms R then referred her complaint to our service. We asked TFGM for further information 
about what had happened. It said that the clients account was being accessed through 
multiple IP addresses and that this was a breach of its terms and that it was targeted by a 
gang of arbitrary traders  which I assume should be a reference to arbitrage. 
It said that the agreement it had was only between it and the client and the terms make clear 
that no one else can access the account. It provided a document headed Individual Client 
Analytics which has a list of IP addresses - all but one of which is identified as being in 
London. There is then a list of correlated accounts.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short he thought that the evidence did support TFGMs conclusions that Ms R was trading in 
collusion with other correlated accounts from shared IP addresses, using the same external 
price latency arbitrage EA.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigator. In short, she said that TFGM has never provided 
evidence she was trading using arbitrage but has picked out a few trades from thousands 
and presented them as arbitrage. She explained that her profits hadnt come from short term 
trades and that accessing her account from multiple IP addresses isnt a breach of the terms 
and conditions and if it was no trader would qualify because of dynamic IP address changes 
due to Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).
The adjudicator responded and explained that he had not upheld the complaint because he 
was of the view that Ms R was using a price latency arbitrage EA which identified when 
TFGMs prices were lagging the market and this gave her an advantageous price on entry. 
Ms R provided a further detailed response setting out why she didnt agree with the 
adjudicator including an explanation of her pyramid trading strategy and arguing, amongst 
other things, that if the prices were lagging then this was deliberate on the part of TFGM.
As Ms R didnt agree with the adjudicator the matter was referred to me for decision. I issued 
a provisional decision not upholding he complaint the findings from which are set out below. 
My role is to determine Ms Rs complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case based on the information provided by the 
parties and taking into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; good industry practice at the time - where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. 
Ms R has made detailed and helpful submissions in this complaint which I have considered 
and taken into account but which I have not set out in full.
Before I consider what TFGM did I think it might be helpful to clarify the basis of the 
execution only service it provided to Ms R, as she has put forward arguments in support of 
her complaint on the basis that TFGM was an Electronic Communications Network (ECN) 
broker, when I dont think it is.
An ECN broker matches buyers and sellers in the market and as such Ms R argues that the 
trades she made were executed on the open market and were between her and the other 
party to the trade and nothing to do with TFGM. She said there was nothing in the terms and 
conditions that suggested she was trading with TFGM rather than the market.
However, TFGM acted as a matched principal broker - as made clear in its order execution 
policy and its licence with the FCA. 
The FCA defines matched principal trading as follows:
a transaction where the facilitator interposes itself between the buyer and the seller to the 
transaction in such a way that it is never itself exposed to market risk throughout the 
execution of the transaction, with both sides executed simultaneously, and where the 
transaction is concluded at a price where the facilitator makes no profit or loss, other than a 
previously disclosed commission, fee or charge for the transaction.
In short TFGM deals as principal to fulfil customer orders, which in simple terms means that 
it acts as the buyer to the seller and as the seller to the buyer in any trade. Contrary to what 
Ms R has said, the terms and conditions do make it clear that she was trading with TFGM, 
as clause 7.6 states that in transactions it will always act as principal. 
Turning to  TFGMs voiding of Ms Rs trades, the explanation it put forward in its final 
response letter was that trades carried out by Ms R trading had taken advantage of price 
latency on its system and as such involved arbitrage trading/non-market trading. It said 
these practices werent permitted by its terms and conditions and referred to clauses 7.9 and 
7.10 of its terms in this regard. It also in other correspondence referred to clause 7.8. I have 
set out the clauses below and highlighted in bold what I believe to be the key parts.
Terms relied on by TFGM
Clause 7.8:We reserve the right to refuse any trades placed by you that we judge to be clearly 
outside the prevailing market price such that they may be deemed non-market price 
Transactions, whether due to manifest error or stale, incorrect, or broken price feeds. 
Where we have opened or closed a trade before becoming aware of the price disparity, we 
may at our absolute discretion either treat that trade as void
Manifest error is defined as:
An error, omission or misquote (including any misquote by our dealer) which by fault of 
either of us or any third party is materially and clearly incorrect when taking into account 
market conditions and quotes in Markets or Underlying Instruments in the prevailing market 
at that time. It may include an incorrect price, date, time, Market or currency pair or any error 
or lack of clarity of any information, source, commentator, official, official result or 
pronouncement.
Clause 7.9
 As a client of ours you hereby accept that the prices quoted by other companies may not 
be relied upon by you in respect of your Account(s) with us and that we reserve the right to 
decline any quote or refuse to be bound to any contract, including those arising from any 
manipulation of the quoting mechanism or our Services generally, notwithstanding our 
undertaking to provide a clear and fair service to you without barriers at all times.
Clause 7.10
Internet connectivity delays and price feed errors may create a situation where the prices 
displayed on the trading platform do not accurately reflect market rates. ThinkMarkets does 
not permit the practice of arbitrage, nor does it allow Client to take advantage of price 
latency. Transactions that rely on price latency or arbitrage opportunities may be 
revoked at our discretion. ThinkMarkets reserves the right to make the necessary 
corrections or adjustments on the Account(s) involved, including, but not limited to, 
withholding any profits made by Client while using these trading tactics. Accounts that 
rely on arbitrage strategies may at the sole discretion of ThinkMarkets be subject to 
ThinkMarkets intervention and approval of any Transactions.
In addition to the specific terms TFGM relied on in correspondence with Ms R there are other 
clauses that I think are relevant to this complaint consisting of warranties and 
representations made by Ms R that allow TFGM to take action in the circumstances set out. 
Those clauses include:
Clause 18.2.1:
When ThinkMarkets executes a Transaction on the Clients behalf, ThinkMarkets may buy 
or sell on securities exchanges or directly from or to another financial institution shares or 
units in the relevant instrument. The result is that when the Client places Transactions with 
ThinkMarkets the Clients Transactions can have an impact on the external market for that 
instrument in addition to the impact it might have on ThinkMarkets price. This creates a 
possibility of market abuse.
Clause 18.2.2:
You represent and warrant to ThinkMarkets and agree that each such representation and 
warranty is deemed repeated each time you close and open a Transaction and each time 
you place or cancel an Order that:(a) You will not place and have not placed a Transaction with ThinkMarkets or otherwise 
behaved, nor will you behave in a manner that would amount to market abuse and/or 
market manipulation by you (or by you acting jointly or in collusion with other 
persons).
(b) You will not have placed a Transaction or order that contravenes any primary or 
secondary legislation or other law or regulatory rule including in relation to insider 
dealing or any corporate finance activity.
Clause 18.2.3:
In the event that you place any Transaction or order in breach of any of the 
representations or warranties given above, or ThinkMarkets has grounds for 
suspecting that you have done so, ThinkMarkets may, in our absolute discretion (and 
with or without giving you notice): (i) close the Transaction or order and any other 
Transaction or orders that you may have open at the time; (ii) enforce the Transaction 
against you; or (iii) treat all your Transactions as void, unless and until you produce 
conclusive evidence that you in fact have not committed the breach of the representations 
and warranties above.
Clause 7.8 gives TFGM the right to void a trade that it judges is outside the prevailing 
market price such that they are deemed to be non-market prices. Trades that involve price 
latency or arbitrage are trades that would be outside the prevailing market price and as such 
would fall within clause 7.8.
Clause 7.10 specifically prohibits arbitrage and taking advantage of price latency and gives 
TFGM the right to revoke transactions which rely on either of those practices, as well as the 
right to make corrections or adjustments to the account.
Clause 18.2 also allows TFGM to void all transactions where it has grounds for suspecting 
that a client has placed a transaction that would amount to market abuse and/or market 
manipulation. 
Ms R has argued that she cannot cheat or manipulate the market with an account of £2000 
and that Forex trading is an open market which needs both buyers and sellers who cannot 
manipulate or cheat the market. But as I have explained, she wasnt trading directly with the 
open market but with TFGM as principal. 
Ms R has questioned the legality of the above terms. She has said that arbitrage is part of 
the Forex ecosystem and legal and that as such the terms that TFGM seek to rely on are 
illegal. She has referred to arbitrage being legal in the US and statements made about its 
importance in terms of liquidity. 
I acknowledge what Ms R has said about the legality of arbitrage trading in the US and I am 
not aware of any law or regulation that prohibits the practice of arbitrage in the UK either. 
However, the fact there is no law or regulation that prevents arbitrage trading doesnt then 
make TFGMs terms illegal. 
It is for TFGM to decide the terms on which it is prepared to provide its services, so long as 
these are compliant with existing law and regulation. I am not aware of any law or regulation 
that would render the terms relied on by TFGM in some way unlawful and I have not been 
directed to any such law or regulation. 
I am also aware that other brokers have similar terms that allow them to take action when 
trades involve arbitrage or latent pricing. In the circumstances I have no reason to think TFGM cant rely on the terms I have set out above. It was for Ms R to decide whether she 
wanted to use TFGMs services based on its terms - which she clearly did as she agreed to 
the terms on opening her account. 
Having determined that TFGM was entitled to impose the terms referred to above, I then 
need to consider whether these allowed TFGM to take the action it did in relation to Ms Rs 
account  namely to void all her trades and as such the profit standing in her account that 
resulted from those trades.
Contractual discretion and Braganza duty
The wording of the above terms at clauses 7.8, 7.10 and 18.2, does not require that TFGM 
establish that Ms R has in fact traded using price latency or arbitrage or otherwise carried 
out non-market trades before taking the action permitted by the terms. They allow TFGM a 
contractual discretion where it judges that trades were placed outside the prevailing market 
price, or using the practices of price latency or arbitrage, to take a number of steps including 
treating those trades as void and making corrections or adjustments to the account. 
TFGM must exercise its contractual discretion honestly and in good faith without 
arbitrariness, capriciousness, or irrationality  what is commonly referred to as the Braganza 
duty set out in the case of Braganza v BP Shipping Limited (2015) UKSC 17.
So, I dont need to decide whether its more likely than not that the trades made by Ms R did, 
or didnt, take advantage of price latency, arbitrage or were otherwise non-market trades or 
involved market abuse or manipulation. I just need to decide whether TFGM exercised its 
contractual discretion rationally, in accordance with its Braganza duty. 
Therefore, whilst I have noted Ms Rs various arguments as to why TFGM were wrong to 
conclude she was trading in breach of the terms I have referred to, I am not going to make 
findings on whether her trading actually involved price latency or arbitrage practices, as that 
isnt the question I need to determine.
Ms R has raised a couple of arguments which I think brings into question TFGM acting in 
good faith in the exercise of its contractual discretion. She has said that if TFGM was the 
counterparty to her trades this would explain why it took her profit  in that her profit would 
be its loss so it would have an incentive to void her trades. In other words, she is suggesting 
it might have voided her trades simply to recover its own losses and not because it 
reasonably thought she had traded in breach of the terms. 
I have already set out the basis of the service provided by TFGM above  namely that it 
acted on a matched principal basis  and what this means. As such I am not satisfied that 
the profit of £18,000 standing in her account at the time TFGM voided her trades were its 
losses. In any event, I would need to have seen some persuasive evidence that its decision 
to void her trades was so that it could benefit financially to find it hadnt acted in good faith, 
and I have seen no such evidence. 
Ms R has also argued that if the price lagged then this was deliberate and for the benefit of 
TFGM so it could increase its profits. Again, given the capacity in which it acted I dont think 
TFGM benefitted from latent pricing. And, in any event, as with the argument above, there is 
no evidence by which I could reasonably find it was deliberately providing latent pricing on its 
platform so it could benefit from this.
In terms of TFGM judging Ms Rs trades had involved price latency or arbitrage, it says that it 
voided Ms Rs trades after comparing prices she had executed orders at against 
independent market prices that it obtained from Reuters. It has provided some of the price evidence it has relied on where it can be seen there is a difference between the price the 
trade executed at and the price shown by Reuters.
TFGM has also referred to certain trades that Ms R made over the course of her trading 
which it identified had been opened and closed simultaneously, or within a very short time, 
which it believes shows arbitrage trading.
It has also pointed to hedged trades where it says advantage was taken of a flaw in its 
system, which meant that it was possible to close one part of the hedged trade a split 
second before the other part, so that instead of the trades netting off as should be the case, 
a profit could be made. 
The trades it has referred to can be seen in Ms Rs account statement and I think this, along 
with the evidence of trades being executed at non-market prices shown by reference to the 
prices from Reuters provided enough information to TFGM for it to judge that the trades 
were outside the prevailing market price and/or relied on the practice of arbitrage or took 
advantage of price latency such that it rationally exercised its contractual discretion to void 
the trades. 
In other words I am satisfied that TFGM exercised its contractual discretion in accordance 
with its Braganza duty and that it didnt act arbitrarily, capriciously, or irrationally in voiding 
her trades in accordance with its rights under the clauses I have set out above. 
In addition TFGM obtained further evidence after it voided the trades which it considers 
supports its belief that it was being targeted by a group of arbitrage traders with similar 
trading patterns. It has provided evidence in the form of the analytics document referred to in 
the background above, which shows links between various IP addresses and client accounts 
 one of which is that of Ms R, although not her trading account. 
Ms R has sought to argue that her account might be linked to other accounts by way of IP 
address because she used multiple devices to access her account when she was trading - 
such as her laptop and mobile phone - and has referred to the use of Dynamic Host 
Configuration Protocol. I dont think this necessarily explains how different client accounts 
trading in the same way have used the same IP address. 
The analytics document was obtained after TFGM voided Ms Rs trades and therefore isnt 
evidence it relied on when deciding to take that action. It is therefore not evidence that can 
be relied on as establishing that TFGM complied with its Braganza duty.  
The document does, however, support my conclusion that it was fair and reasonable for 
TFGM to have voided Ms Rs trades because it supports the allegations that she was trading 
in breach of the terms.
I sent the parties an email after issuing the provisional decision to clarify that transactions 
judged to involve arbitrage or price latency would in my view fall within clause 18.2 of the 
terms as market manipulation.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further information or argument before issuing 
my final decision but neither party provided a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any further information or arguments that would lead me to 
change the findings in my provisional decision I stand by those findings.
In short I am upholding this complaint because I am satisfied on the evidence provided that 
TFGM exercised its contractual discretion to void Ms Rs trades honestly and in good faith 
and in accordance with its Braganza duty - without arbitrariness, capriciousness, or 
irrationality  and as such it didnt do anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman