DRN-3355608
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr W have complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds pricing 
practice in relation to their home and motor insurance policies.
Mr W has taken the lead in pursuing the complaint with both Admiral and us. So, for 
ease, where I refer to Mr W in this decision it should be read as being in respect of both 
Mr W and Mrs S.
What happened
Mr W took out an Admiral motor policy in 2014. He renewed it each year. In 2019 Mr W 
insured his home and car on a multicover policy with Admiral. The policy renewed in 
February 2020. But, some months later, Mr W found out he could insure his home and car 
on an Admiral policy for a considerably lower premium. He cancelled his existing policy and 
replaced it with the cheaper policy. He didn't think Admiral had dealt with him fairly.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Admiral needed to take any further action. Mr W didnt agree so the complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W believes that Admiral has penalised him for his loyal custom, by essentially increasing 
his premiums at renewal each year and charging him more for his policies than, he believes, 
a new business customer might be able to achieve. And hes referred to new regulations 
introduced this year by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) aimed at preventing such 
practices. And while I have some sympathy with his position that doesn't mean Admiral has 
acted unfairly.
Since Mr W first took out an Admiral policy hes made a number of changes to the risk 
Admiral is covering. Thats by doing things like changing cars, moving house, and adding 
Mrs S as a named driver. These are all things that would affect the risk that Mr W and Mrs S 
present as policyholders. And when deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will assess the likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might 
have to pay out for those. Insurers will consider many different factors when deciding what to 
charge for insurance. And if the insurers assessment of risk increases, it may decide to 
increase the premium. Thats something that insurers are allowed to do. So the changes 
Mr W has made to his policy over time would have, quite fairly, affected his premium. 
I need to be absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator; the FCA is. That means its 
not my role to tell an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. Nor can I decide what 
discounts an insurer may offer or who it should offer those to. Similarly its not my role to tell 
an insurer what factors it should consider when assessing risk. Different insurers will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement and not something we would usually think is fair to interfere with.
Also, like any business, an insurer has to think about its costs and profit margins to remain 
sustainable. And, for an insurer, there may be hundreds of variables it has to consider when 
setting a premium  including its own commercial requirements and its desire to make a 
profit as a business. Insurers also re-rate the risks they consider regularly. And many motor 
insurers will do this on a daily basis. So the quotes an insurer provides will vary from day-to-
day as well as year-to-year as their assessment of those risk factors and their commercial 
requirements change. And that can, perfectly fairly, result in an increase in premiums.
Mr W is particularly unhappy that Admiral didnt offer him discounts at renewal that might 
have been available to new customers. So I can understand why he might think thats not 
fair, especially as the FCA has now taken steps to minimise the likelihood of that happening. 
But prior to 2022 it was typically the case that insurers new business quotes included 
introductory discounts in order to attract new customers. Those initial discounts are then 
generally recouped in subsequent years. And as that was something insurers were allowed 
to do at the time, I don't find that practice unreasonable. 
Mr W didn't have to accept the renewal quotes Admiral gave to him. In fact, I've listened to 
calls with Admiral when he managed to secure cheaper premiums by discussing his renewal 
price with Admiral. But he didn't have to accept those reduced premiums either. He could 
have looked to the market to see if he could find a more competitive quote elsewhere. Thats 
how the market operates. And as every insurer Im aware of assesses risk differently each 
will return a different premium. So Mr W could have taken his business elsewhere if he 
wished to, he was under no obligation to renew with Admiral. 
Mr W told us that hes specifically asked Admiral if he could find a cheaper policy by taking 
out a new policy rather than renewing. But I think he's mistaken. Admiral said it had no 
record of Mr H specifically asking if he could achieve a cheaper premium by taking out a new 
policy. Further, I've listened to Mr Ws calls with Admiral concerning renewal of his policies in 
2018, 2019 and 2020. And while he's clearly seeking to find out why his premium had 
increased, and if there was anything Admiral could do to bring it down, I havent heard Mr W 
ask Admiral if taking out a new policy would bring the price down. So I don't think Admiral 
has acted deceitfully as Mr W seems to think.
Also, I think its worth noting that the alternative quote Mr W found in 2020 wasnt an exact 
like-for-like replacement of his existing multi-cover policy. For example, amongst other 
things, the replacement policy was based on lower annual mileage than the policy which 
Mr W had renewed. In addition he had business use on the policy which renewed but 
changed that to social use only for the new policy, and changes of that nature would affect 
the risk and, therefore, the premium Admiral quoted. 
It follows that I don't think Admiral did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman