DRN-2923521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down their business 
interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. They enquired about 
claiming on their policy after closing due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-
19. 
 
Covea said the policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances of Mr and Mrs As claim. It 
said the most relevant parts of the policy would only provide cover in the event of damage to 
either Mr and Mrs As property or to property in the vicinity which prevented the use of, or 
access to their premises. However, Covea didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to 
property. 
 
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with Coveas response and brought their complaint to our 
service. 
 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to Mr and Mrs As property or to property in the 
vicinity which had hindered or prevented access to their premises. 
 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs A have also complained about the sale of their policy. That is being 
dealt with as a separate complaint and in this decision I can only comment on what Covea, 
as the insurers of the business interruption section of their policy, might  or might not  
have done wrong. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr and Mrs As business. But Im not going to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr and Mrs As claim. 
Damage 
Mr and Mrs As policy doesnt cover every eventuality. The business interruption section of 
their policy says:
The insurer will pay the Insured for Business Interruption by any of the Events 
operative under this Policy and not otherwise excluded occurring during the 
Period of Insurance.
A capital letter at the beginning of a word indicates that the word has a specific definition 
within the policy. 
Event is defined as: 
Damage to Property used by the Insured at the Premises for the purpose of the 
Business
Damage is defined as:
The physical loss or destruction of or damage to property
For this to provide cover for the circumstances of Mr and Mrs As claim there would need to 
be a physical loss or destruction of or damage to property used by Mr and Mrs A for the 
purposes of their business. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage 
to property used by Mr and Mrs A for the purposes of their business, so I dont think this 
provides cover for the circumstances of their claim. 
Denial of access
The cover provided under the policy is extended under various extensions. These provide 
cover for claims:
resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of 
Damage by an Event at any situation or to any Property shown below
The most relevant extension listed is denial of access which says:
Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or 
access to the Premises
Unfortunately, I dont think this provides cover for Mr and Mrs As claim either. I say that 
because this extension would require there to be damage, as defined in the policy, to 
property in the vicinity of Mr and Mrs As premises which prevented or hindered the use of or 
access to their premises. And I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused 
damage to property in the vicinity of Mr and Mrs As premises which prevented or hindered 
the use of or access to their premises. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr and Mrs A, but having 
considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman