DRN-3581697
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2015, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,169 to mislead Mr H, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £17,634.60;
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid, 
as well as reducing his energy bills;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint. He later noted that the 
system did appear to be under-performing in terms of energy generation, but he said that as 
the CMC had not raised that as part of the section 75 claim, this issue should be raised in a 
new claim with Shawbrook before our service would consider it.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had not given Mr H time to read Ps quote (on which the adjudicator 
had relied) before giving it to him to sign;
Mr H had never had the opportunity to read all of it or to weigh his options;
a copy of the quote had never been sent to him to read in his own time;
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr H had not thought 
it necessary to ask for a copy of the quote afterwards;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr Hs claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law;
the CMC had raised under-performance in the section 75 claim in November 2020, 
and so an ombudsman should consider that issue as part of this complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr H, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr H denies that. But I dont think its likely or 
plausible that Mr H simply took the salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  
without it costing him a penny, without at any point asking to see something to that effect in 
writing. Its more likely that Mr H has simply forgotten seeing the quote over the five years 
between the sale and the bringing of his claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am 
satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr H agreed to 
enter into the contract, and that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive 
taken this into account, along with Mr Hs version of events, when considering if there have 
been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr H was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £9,169 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £17,634.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Hs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr H more than the cash price as he had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Hs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £424.99, which results in an average monthly income of £35.42. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £97.97. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr H was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings are £333.19 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr H, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £908.18. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused mainly on the table for 180 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £97.97. For each year of the 15 year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £97.97, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for the first five years of the loan, meaning that the system would 
take over five years to begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
The table for 120 months has been highlighted, which suggests that it might have been 
discussed, so I have considered that table too (although I am satisfied that the loan 
agreement made it clear that Mr H would make 180 monthly payments of £97.97, so that is 
certainly the loan that was taken out). The 120 months table shows clearly that the system 
would not begin to cover the loan repayments for eight years.
So I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr H wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Hs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings from the start.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr H, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take nine years for the 
overall benefits that Mr H could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the nine-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year nine the overall benefits that Mr H could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,169.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £17,634, 
would be reached by the end of year 14.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take longer than that for the system to pay 
for itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in 
line with the contract between P and Mr H.
Performance: energy generation
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,178 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Hs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,552 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (80.3%), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2020. The CMC 
did complain about underperformance in terms of the financial returns from the system, but 
not in terms of energy generation. So I do not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not 
having upheld that claim on the basis that the panels were not generating enough energy. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr H was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. Shawbrook didnt 
have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much 
energy as P had estimated  either as a separate and free-standing issue, or to see if under-
generation was contributing to the issue of the system not yielding the financial returns Mr H 
had been told he could expect.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it (since if it is the result of a breach of contract, rather than 
misrepresentation, then Shawbrook will usually be entitled to one attempt at a repair). Then, 
if Mr H is still not satisfied, he may bring a new complaint to our service about Shawbrooks 
response. I am not in a position to deal with that issue now, except to say that Shawbrook 
did not mishandle Mr Hs claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr Hs original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the effect 
that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the system had 
therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the estimated 
financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to generate as 
much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable. P used Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the utility price and 
RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the 
increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I think this explains why 
Mr H hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman