DRN-4459997
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about the amount Covea Insurance plc has paid to settle a claim he 
made on his commercial property insurance policy.
Mr W has been largely represented by his daughter in this complaint, but for ease of 
reference I shall refer to anything that shes said on Mr Ws behalf to have been said by 
Mr W.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr Ws property was damaged when a car drove into the boundary wall 
causing significant damage. So he contacted Covea to claim for the damage on his 
insurance policy. Covea instructed a loss adjustor to act on its behalf. Throughout the claim 
journey, Covea has increased the amount it wanted to pay to settle the claim as Mr W didnt 
agree with the way that it was calculating the cost of repair and he said it hadnt produced a 
detailed scope of works. And he referred his complaint to this Service. 
Following this Covea agreed to pay £600 in compensation for the service Mr W had received 
and also to provide a detailed scope of works.
Covea then advised Mr W it would settle the claim for £13,763.33  which included the cost 
Mr W had already incurred in putting some of the issues right. Mr W still didnt agree with this 
and set out that this cost didnt include various critical items that were needed to put things 
right. Covea later agreed to settle the claim for £18,452 and Mr W would get the work done 
himself to this. Mr W accepted this but he said this didnt account for the distress, 
inconvenience and additional costs Covea had caused as a result of its breaches. So he 
referred his complaint to this Service again.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint and said Covea should pay an additional 
amount of around £5,000 as he said Covea hadnt shown that £18,452 was enough to get 
the work completed, but Mr W had provided two separate estimates of around £23,000 and 
£25,000. Covea responded to explain the £18,452 was the amount Mr W had said it would 
cost him to repair the damage and provided evidence of this.
Following this, the investigator thought Covea had now settled the claim fairly. He also said 
compensation had already been awarded for the generally service Covea had provided. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, he raised the following:
£18,452 was the cost price of putting things right. He said the true and reasonable cost 
was around £23,000  the original quoted price. He maintained this is what Covea 
should have paid at the start. And he says hes lost out as a result;
No account has been made of the frequent breaches by Covea. He highlighted that 
Covea still hadnt provided a detailed scope of works. He said Covea hadnt responded 
to this Services information requests in time, so he thinks its unfair the investigator 
changed his assessment;
He said the compensation originally agreed was around general delays in handling the 
claim. He said no account was made of this for the costs and distress that arose from the 
continual changing of the estimates. He highlighted that this put a significant strain on 
the relationship between him and his tenants.
The investigator still thought his assessment was fair, so he referred his complaint to this 
Service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, this Service has already considered the service Covea gave up to September 2022 in 
a separate complaint. So Im not considering anything Covea did in the handling of the claim 
up to this point. I note Mr W has said that this didnt take into account the impact of the unfair 
calculations of the claim settlement value and the impact that arose from that. But I dont 
agree. So Im not considering the general service Covea has given in this decision. This 
complaint is about whether Covea has now offered a fair amount to settle the claim.
Ultimately, Covea has paid Mr W what he said it would cost him to fix the damage from the 
accident. And this is what Covea was contractually required to do under the terms of the 
insurance policy. The purpose of the insurance policy was to return Mr W back to the 
position he was in before loss or damage arising from an insured event occurred. And this is 
what Covea has done.
I note Mr W said hed given evidence of the true cost of repair at the start which was £23,000 
and £25,000. He says Covea should have paid that then as he says it never provided any 
evidence to show its repair cost would have been less than that. But, at that time, there was 
a significant difference in opinion about what the cost of repair was. 
A claim settlement should never be a negotiation. Covea should have provided an accurate 
and valid settlement figure from the start. But, in this case, there was a dispute about 
whether the full driveway needed to be replaced. Covea said it was only required to repair 
the damage section, which is standard industry practice. I cant say it was unreasonable for 
Covea to initially look to do this at the start. But it later agreed to replace the driveway in full. 
However, it was entitled to carry out further investigations given the significant differences in 
opinions here. And I cant say Covea should have just paid what Mr W says it would cost him 
to repair the damage, especially given the terms of the policy would limit Coveas liability to 
what it would have to pay its contractors to put things right.
Covea later instructed a surveyor to assess the damage and explain what they thought was 
needed to put things right. And I understand Coveas final settlement offer (£13,763.33) was 
following an assessment of the surveyors comments. But, ultimately, Covea has paid Mr W 
what he said it would cost to put things right. In doing so, I think it has fairly settled Mr Ws 
claim in line with the terms of the insurance policy. And I cant say it should have paid him 
£23,000 sooner.
I recognise that Mr W says Covea has still not provided a detailed scope of works, but this 
doesnt change the fact its paid what Mr W said it would cost to put things right. I also note 
Mr W has referred to the fact that Covea hasnt engaged with this Service in the way it 
should. But I think I need to set out that this Service is not the regulator. So we dont fine and 
punish businesses. Our role is to assess whether a business has acted fairly and, if not, 
whether its done enough to put things right.As I said, Im satisfied Covea has now fairly settled Mr Ws claim. This Service has already 
said in a previous complaint that Covea has caused significant delays throughout the 
handling of this claim and I think this includes reference to the continual negotiation of the 
claim value. So Im not commenting further on that in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman