DRN-2165929
The complaint 
Miss C has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account, called a 123 account. 
Miss C paid monthly fees for the 123 account and received several potential benefits in 
return. She thinks that Santander should refund her the fees she paid and add interest. 
What happened
Miss C has been a customer of Santander for quite a long time. Santander has told us that 
her account history is as follows:
in December 1999, she opened a fee-free current account,
in July 2013, it sold her the 123 account which replaced her fee-free account, 
in May 2020, she switched back to a fee-free account. 
I believe that Santanders records about this are probably reliable and I have taken this 
account history to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that 
Santander should give Miss C any money back. Miss C didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Miss C and Santander have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below. 
Miss C has made two main points in her complaint. 
Firstly, she has said that Santander told her that buying a 123 account would improve her 
credit score. She now believes this was incorrect.
Secondly, she has said that Santander told her that if she bought the 123 account it would 
give her interest rates as low as 3% if she needed a loan, but in fact when she did take a 
loan it charged her over five times that rate.
Santander disagrees with both of Miss Cs points. It thinks it treated her fairly. 
Neither party has sent us particularly strong evidence to show with certainly what happened, 
so to decide what to do about this complaint I have reviewed the evidence that I do have to 
determine what is most likely to have occurred. I have taken each of Miss Cs points in turn.
Santander misled Miss C about her credit score
I do not know a great deal about Miss Cs credit score in 2014. But it is extremely 
unlikely that buying the 123 account would have improved it. Amongst other things, 
credit scores are determined by the way someone manages an account, pays bills 
when they are due and matches income and expenditures. They are not usually 
affected by the type of bank account someone holds. However, the crux of this part of 
Miss Cs complaint is that she thinks Santander misled her about this and told her the 
opposite.
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what Santander said or didnt say to Miss C. It may well 
have told her how to manage an account to increase her score, but I doubt it told her 
that she needed to buy the123 account to do this. I think its unlikely that Santander 
would have been wrong about this. Anything it said about working to improve a credit 
score would have applied equally to both the 123 account and to the fee-free account 
Miss C had held for several years.
Santander misled Miss C about the interest rate she could get for loans
Some packaged bank accounts do provide customers with guaranteed lower interest 
rates on loans. But the savings are rarely of the scale that Miss C has described, and 
such large discounts have never been a regular feature of the 123 account. Santander 
does not usually promote the 123 account in this way. I doubt that Santander misled 
Miss C about this, as any such wrong information would have become clear as soon 
as she applied for a loan. 
Although Miss C has made only two main points, in fairness to her I have also looked at the 
evidence I have to check if Santander met its other obligations to her when it sold her the 
123 account. 
Miss C has told us that Santander sold her the 123 account over the phone, and I accept 
that it did. To do things fairly for Miss C, I would have expected Santander to tell her about 
the monthly fees, describe the benefits of the account and allow her the choice to keep her 
fee-free account if she preferred it to the 123 account. 
There doesnt seem to be any doubt that Santander told Miss C about the fees and gave her 
the option to keep her fee-free account. At the time, the main benefits of the 123 account 
were that if customers met certain conditions, they could earn more interest than customers 
with Santanders fee-free accounts, and they could also receive refunds on some household 
bills. Miss C seems to have befitted from some of these features, so it seems highly likely to 
me that Santander told her about them. I think it probably met its obligations to her.
So, in summary, I think its unlikely that Santander misled Miss C that buying the 123 
account would improve her credit score or get her a much better interest rate on a loan. And 
I havent seen anything to make me think it mis-sold her the 123 account in any other way. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint about 
Santander UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman