DRN-2219591
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the customer service that she received while claiming on a 
breakdown policy that was provided with her packaged bank account that she held with The 
Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op). Ms L is also unhappy that on a different occasion, she was 
unable to use the breakdown cover whilst abroad due to the car that she was travelling in 
wasnt registered with the UK DVLA.
What happened
I previously sent Co-op and Ms L a provisional decision on this complaint. That provisional 
decision said the following.
 
Firstly I will consider whether Co-op are responsible for the customer service that Ms L 
received from the breakdown provider when her vehicle broke down in London. I should 
explain that I have carefully read Ms Ls recollections of the events that occurred, and I 
sympathise with what must have been a truly difficult time. That said, while I note Ms Ls 
comments about why Co-op should be held responsible for the actions of the car breakdown 
cover provider, I cant agree. Co-op is not the breakdown cover provider, and I am satisfied it 
would not be fair in the circumstances to hold Co-op responsible for the actions of that 
provider. 
I appreciate that as far as Ms L is concerned, her only contract is with Co-op. However, by 
agreeing to have a packaged bank account which includes various insurance and non-
insurance benefits, Ms L also has relationships with the underwriters of the insurance 
policies and the providers of the non-insurance benefits. Overall then I am satisfied the 
actual service she received was provided by the breakdown cover provider and as such I 
cant hold Co-op responsible for this. Ms L is free to take up her concerns with that business 
directly.
I will next address the declined claim. I note that the adjudicator that looked at this complaint 
commented on whether the claim was declined correctly. However, again, this is between 
Ms L and the breakdown cover provider for the reasons stated above. Co-op has no role in 
assessing claims made. What I have looked at is whether Co-op gave Ms L good enough 
information about the breakdown policy, and if it did not, what if anything wouldve occurred 
differently. I should highlight at this point that in general the role of this service is to put a 
customer back in the position that they wouldve been in had an error caused by a financial 
institution (in this case Co-op) had not occurred.
I can see that Co-op changed the provider of the breakdown cover in 2011, and I have 
looked at the documentation it sent out at that time setting out the changes in cover. I can 
see that it mentions that the major change was that the account holder would be covered in 
any vehicle that they travelled in, and I cant see that it was highlighted in this document that, 
to be covered, vehicles would have to be registered with the UK DVLA. So I can understand 
why Ms L may have thought that she would be covered in any vehicle, unless she read the 
full terms and conditions of the policy.
But I also need to consider what wouldve happened differently had Ms L known about this 
exclusion when the provider changed in 2011. When this change occurred the main benefits 
of the account included European Breakdown cover, Travel Insurance and Mobile phone 
insurance. The account also offered the choice of an additional benefit choice of either 
Gadget insurance, Safeguard or Traveler benefits. I can see that Ms L used the other 
benefits that the account came with, such as the travel and gadget insurance after this point. 
So, it seems as if she had a need for and relied on other benefits that the account came 
with. Therefore, I think that Ms L wouldve kept the account, even if shed fully understood 
this term.
But I accept that Ms L might have done something else, other than cancel the PBA. She has 
explained that she often uses her sisters car, which was the car she was travelling in when 
she was unable to use the breakdown cover. My understanding is that this car is registered 
with the relevant overseas jurisdiction, so would not be covered by the breakdown cover that 
came with her Co-op account. Given that Ms L says that she often used this car, I am open 
to the possibility that Ms L may have taken out an additional breakdown policy that would 
have given her cover. And this may have meant that Ms L might have been able to use this 
hypothetical alternative breakdown cover when she broke down in 2018.
But in this scenario, I would also need to consider whether this additional breakdown policy 
that Ms L would need to have taken wouldve potentially cost her more than the declined 
claim actually did. It seems as if Ms L was able to use the breakdown cover on multiple 
occasions over multiple years while using her sisters car despite the car not being covered 
by the policy, and only in one instance has it led to Ms L having a claim declined. So Ms Ls 
loss is only on one claim, whereas if she had taken out separate breakdown cover for her 
sisters car she would needed to have held this policy for a number of years. I have looked at 
the cost of standalone European breakdown and it looks to be around £80 a year and it 
seems that it would be difficult to get cover for a non DVLA registered car. 
The cost of this cover would have been on top of the monthly fee for her Co-op account, 
which I believe she wouldve continued to hold due to the other benefits it offered. So overall 
while Co-op may not have highlighted the full limitations of the breakdown cover to her, I 
dont think that Ms L actually suffered a loss as a result of this. Ive already explained why 
the evidence doesnt support the conclusion that she would have cancelled the PBA. So the 
only thing that Ms L may have done differently wouldve cost her more money than the 
declined claim ended up costing her.
 
So in summary I currently dont think that Co-op is responsible for the customer service that 
Ms L received when she broke down in London. And, while the full limitations of the 
breakdown cover may not have been highlighted to Ms L I dont think that it caused her a 
financial loss. So I dont think that Co-op needs to do anything more than it already has in 
relation to this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I made a final decision. The period of time I gave for responses has now 
passed. Co-op has not provided anything further. Ms L has brought several points to my 
attention.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that both parties have told us or sent us throughout the case, and 
I have decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. In response to my provisional decision, Ms L has made the following main points:
the severity of the situation is not fully clarified; it makes no mention of the car being on a 
double red line, within sights of a fire engine, that the incident should have been prioritised, 
in keeping with breakdown provider's procedures, as it involved a single woman, that it 
occurred overnight and that the operator showed no concern at this situation - even when 
inebriated men banged on the window - and suggested going to a local cafe to wait in spite 
of location, the fact that the incident occurred between 11:38 pm and 6 am.
there is no mention in your summary of the breakdown provider over-running their own 3 
hour maximum limit by several hours;
nor is there mention of faulty mechanics resulting from the works undertaken;
the incident is described as one rather than two breakdowns - the second, also in a 
precarious location, occurring during rush hour traffic across a four lane highway because of 
battery terminals not being properly reconnected;
you do not mention a key, disputed £100 loss incurred which is greater than the 
compensation given.
no exploration is made of the fact that it is the Cooperative Bank with whom I have an 
account and that, as subcontractors, they must surely bear responsibility for the services 
which they promote
In relation to these points I am sorry if I did not explain myself sufficiently in my provisional 
decision, but I should stress that I cannot hold Co-op responsible for the actions of the 
breakdown provider. This is why I did not comment in detail about the circumstances 
surrounding the various customer service issues that Ms L had with the breakdown provider 
- because they are the actions of a third party and not the responsibility of Co-op. 
I should re-iterate that I understand that Ms L feels that her relationship is with Co-op and it 
should accept responsibility for the actions of the breakdown provider. But by agreeing to 
have the packaged bank account with various benefits insurance Ms L also has a 
relationship with the providers of these policies. If Ms L feels unhappy with the service she 
received from any of these providers, this would need to be directed to these providers. I 
understand that she has already complained directly to the breakdown provider and has not 
received the outcome that she wanted from them. But this does not mean that I can now 
hold Co-op responsible for the actions of the breakdown provider.
So in this instance, while I understand that Ms L will be frustrated by this outcome, I am not 
upholding her complaint.
This final decision is now our last word on Ms Ls case with Co-op and if she decides not to 
accept this outcome, she remains free to take any further action she so wishes about the 
case outside of the this service, including in the courts. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman