DRN-4502067
The complaint
Mr C was unhappy with how his claim was handled and the settlement he was offered by 
One Insurance Limited (One Insurance).
What happened
Mr C was involved in a car accident. He said the other party involved admitted liability at the 
scene. 
When Mr Cs claim was registered with the other partys insurer, Mr C was told the third-
party insurer had denied liability as there was a lack of evidence. When One Insurance 
investigated the circumstances, it received video footage from the third-party insurer, which 
led it to conclude the incident would at best result in a split liability outcome.
Based on this conclusion, One Insurance changed its approach to the claim and considered 
it under Mr Cs comprehensive cover. Mr Cs vehicle was written off as it was beyond 
economic repair, and it arranged for a valuation of the vehicle to be completed so it could 
settle the claim. Mr C refused the offer as he felt it was too low  he showed advertised 
prices for similar vehicles to prove his point.
Mr C isnt happy about how One Insurance has handled his claim  he thinks it should fight it 
in court and said he has a witness who would make a statement. One Insurance didnt think 
it was at fault, but it did offer £200 compensation to recognise any loss of use on the vehicle 
when it first took over the claim.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She said One Insurance should increase 
its settlement to £31,755.60 (incl. VAT) to reflect the highest industry guide price, which is in 
line with our services view of a fair approach. However, she didnt find evidence that One 
Insurance had handled the claim poorly. Mr C disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint did stray beyond what One Insurance Limited is responsible for. For the 
avoidance of doubt, in my decision, I can only consider actions taken by One Insurance 
Limited. Our investigator has explained to Mr C that complaints against any accident 
management company is outside of our services jurisdiction.
Ive considered the valuation One Insurance provided for Mr Cs vehicle. One Insurance took 
an industry guide price for setting the value. I think One Insurance has followed a sensible 
approach, using a well-known industry guide. Industry guides provide the most accurate 
view of sold prices across the country for various makes, models, specification and mileage 
of cars.
One Insurance valued the car at £24,110 plus VAT. Our service, however, thinks that 
insurers should look at a range of industry guides and where there is discrepancy between 
those guides, we believe the fairest option is to take the highest guide price. I appreciate Mr 
C said hes seen some advertised prices which are higher, but often cars are not sold at the 
advertised price points. Our service finds the industry guides more reliable.
The highest value from the guides available to us is £26,463 plus VAT (£31,755.60). I think 
this is a fairer value for Mr Cs vehicle, so I intend to uphold this complaint. 
Mr C was unhappy he was quoted two different salvage amounts for him to take ownership 
of the vehicle back from his insurer. I think One Insurance clarified its approach in its final 
response and this is consistent with its policy for pricing salvage for all customers. So, I cant 
say Mr C has been treated unfairly. One Insurance should apply its normal policy on the 
salvage cost if Mr C decides to retain the vehicle.
I appreciate Mr C thinks its unfair the claim has not been contested by his insurer. It has 
accepted liability on Mr Cs behalf. However, I think its reasonable for One Insurance to take 
decisions on what is the best course of action. Insurers are experts in claims resolution. One 
Insurance has used its expertise to make a judgement on the circumstances of this 
complaint. It couldnt get hold of witness statements and it has reviewed video evidence from 
the accident. I think One Insurance has taken a reasonable approach. It doesnt think any 
court action would be successful. So, any expenditure spent on this process would be 
wasted.
Mr C was unhappy he didnt receive a courtesy car, but Ive checked the policy and it states:
We will not provide the guarantee or provision of a replacement vehicle in the following 
circumstances:
 Where the vehicle is deemed beyond economical repair.
As Mr Cs car was written-off, he wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car. It provided a 
valuation 3 weeks after taking over the claim. One Insurance has paid £200 compensation 
for this period when Mr C was without a vehicle  I think this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr C has talked about his financial hardship during this claim. However, I can see One 
Insurance offered to pay an interim payment on the claim and explained to Mr C that it 
wouldnt affect his rights under the complaint. I think One Insurance has acted reasonably in 
the circumstances, as it was trying to help alleviate the difficult position Mr C found himself 
in. 
I appreciate there was a delay in Mr C receiving payment once hed later accepted that 
some money could be transferred to him. However, One Insurance has explained the 
payment transaction wouldnt process as there was an issue with Mr Cs payment details. 
So, I cant say One Insurance has acted unfairly in these circumstances.
Mr C claimed hes lost £6,000 a month in wages due to the accident and the poor handling 
of the claim. However, I havent seen any evidence to support these figures or evidence hes 
lost any contracts because of the way One Insurance handled the claim. I think the 
avoidable delays were more likely caused before One Insurance took over the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to:Settle the claim based on a valuation of £31,755.60 (less appropriate excess and / or 
salvage).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman