DRN-3417834
The complaint
Mr R complains about the end of contract damage charges Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) have asked him to pay and also about the quality of the car 
supplied to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr R responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The quality of the car
The Consumer Rights Act is the relevant legislation here. That says that when considering 
whether goods have been of satisfactory quality when supplied they cant be deemed of 
unsatisfactory quality when the issue is specifically drawn to the consumers attention before 
the contract is made. Mr R has explained that he was alerted to the fact a repair had been 
completed on the car before it was supplied to him. So, I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest the car was of unsatisfactory quality at that point as he accepted the repair and 
continued to drive the car until it was returned four years later.
Mr R says he wasnt told about the extent of the repair. The relevant legislation goes on to 
explain that we shouldnt consider goods of unsatisfactory quality when the consumer 
examines the goods and that examination ought to have revealed the problem. Here, I think 
an inspection would have been most likely to have revealed the extent of the problem as the 
issues related to poor repairs and I think thats something an untrained eye could reasonably 
be expected to spot.
And, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think it would be fair to expect MBFS to 
compensate Mr R in any way for the poor quality of the repair on the car he received as he 
accepted the car in that condition, and drove it for some time without it apparently causing 
any issues until the car was inspected on return. 
Having said that, it clearly wouldnt be reasonable for Mr R to be held responsible for 
rectifying the poor repairs present on the car when it was supplied to him. So, Ill go on to 
consider the damage charges.
The damage charges
MBFS contacted the supplying dealer and removed charges for the left hand front wing, left 
hand rear door, left hand rear quarter panel and rear bumper, as they believed these panels 
had been repaired prior to supply.
The charge for the left hand rear door was reinstated as the scratch was significant and 
more recent, and other charges for scratches to the front bumper, and left hand front bumper 
chrome moulding have been applied along with a charge for a damaged wheel.
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use 
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
BVRLA guidelines state surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal
is not showing are acceptable
The primer is clearly visible through the scratches on the left hand rear door and front 
bumper and the charges are therefore reasonable.
The BVRLA guideline says, chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable . The chip 
to the left hand front bumper chrome moulding is greater than 3mm as can be seen from the 
measuring device. I think the charge for that item is therefore reasonable too.
The BVRLA guidance says dents on wheels rims and wheel trims are not acceptable 
Theres a dent on the rim and the damage is therefore beyond the reasonable wear and tear 
guidance.
I dont think the four charges MBFS are now seeking to charge for can fairly be related to the 
repairs completed on the car before it was supplied to Mr R and overall, I think the charges 
are fair and Im not asking MBFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman