DRN-3736323
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc (Metro) registered a fraud prevention marker against 
him.
Background
In April 2018, Mr Os account received payments of £1,872.00 and £1,989.00 into it. The 
vast majority of the funds were immediately withdrawn in cash. And the remainder spent in a 
retail transaction. 
Metro subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payments to Mr Os account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Metro reviewed Mr Os account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr Os account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker Mr O complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Metro didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. As Mr O remained dissatisfied, Mr O referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. She didnt think that Metro had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Metro did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Os 
account in April 2018, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr O was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Upon being questioned by our adjudicator, Mr O said that he was told to give his account 
details and hed receive money by people he met on social media. But his card was taken 
and he was told it wouldnt be returned unless he opened a new account with Metro. So 
thats why he opened this account not knowing that fraud would take place. 
Ive thought about what Mr O has said and Ive tried to give him the benefit of the doubt here.  
But Im afraid that the available evidence doesnt support that he wasnt complicit in the 
activity on his account. I say this because Mr O went and opened a new account after he 
was already unhappy with the activity that others were carrying out his previous one. 
I appreciate that Mr O says he opened this account to get his card back but this doesnt add 
up as he could have simply called his bank to cancel his card and request a new one. 
Furthermore, £150 of the fraudulent funds appear to have been used in a debit card 
transaction and this looks like it might well have been the money Mr O expected to receive in 
return for his role in the activity. 
As Mr O opened an account in circumstances where he was unhappy at the way his 
previous account was being used by others, its difficult for me to say that he wouldnt have 
known there was a strong possibility this new account would also be used for illegitimate 
purposes. So Im afraid that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant 
here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in fraudulent activity. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Metro did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr O was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Metro to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O  especially given the effect hes said the 
marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. Furthermore, Mr O 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman