DRN-3262070
The complaint
Mrs S, who is represented by her son Mr S, says J D Williams & Company Limited 
(J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her. She and Mr S have requested that the interest and 
late payment charges she paid on the seven accounts she had be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a total of seven catalogue shopping accounts provided by 
J D Williams to Mrs S. 
The first two accounts were opened in February 2002 and February 2006. I should point 
out that this was before 6 April 2007 when this type of catalogue lending became regulated 
so that complaints about such lending could be brought to us. That means Im unable to 
look at any activity on these accounts before that time. As J D Williams no longer holds 
records from the time these accounts were opened, its unable to tell us when the earlier 
credit limit increases were applied to these two accounts. However, J D Williams was able 
to provide information showing that Mrs Ss credit limit on the first account was £1000 in 
March 2009. And J D Williams has told us that in February 2010 Mrs Ss credit limit on the 
second account was £300 and was increased twice, reaching a credit limit of £800 in June 
2011.
The third account was opened in August 2009 with a credit limit of £400. This was 
increased six times, reaching a credit limit of £1600 by April 2018. 
The fourth account was opened in August 2011 with a credit limit of £400. This was 
increased twice, reaching a credit limit of £900 in December 2011. 
The fifth account was opened in October 2011 with a credit limit of £200. This was 
increased three times until it reached a credit limit of £900 in May 2013. 
The sixth account was opened in September 2012 with a credit limit of £400. This was 
increased twice, reaching credit limit of £900 in January 2013. 
The seventh account was opened in May 2016 with a credit limit of £400. This was 
increased twice, reaching a credit limit of £900 in October 2016. 
Mr S says hes unhappy that J D Williams didnt make proper checks to find out if his 
mother was in financial difficulties. He also says that J D Williams continued to provide his 
mother with credit even after he requested in January 2019 that all of the accounts be 
closed and no more orders taken. Ive seen that Mr S subsequently obtained legal authority 
to look after his mothers financial affairs. 
J D Williams says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Mrs S each of her 
accounts and also each time it increased her credit limit. It also says it was able to open 
further accounts because her credit score remained positive and she also made regular 
payments that were often above the minimum required. That also meant J D Williams was 
able to consider Mrs S for further credit increases. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ss complaint and thought that by October 2017 
J D Williams ought to have realised that Mrs S may not have been in a position to 
sustainably repay any further credit on her accounts. As J D Williams doesnt accept our 
adjudicators assessment the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Having fully considered Mrs Ss complaint, and noted the communications passing 
between J D Williams and our adjudicator further to the finding that this complaint should 
be partially upheld, Im satisfied that this complaint is ready to be passed to me for a 
decision. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs S could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into consideration a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
JD Williams has said that when Mrs S opened each of her accounts, there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into 
account the low opening credit limits that were applied, I dont think there is anything to 
suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to approve the opening of 
each of these accounts. Our adjudicator thought that by May 2013, following a further credit limit increases to the fifth 
account that made Mrs Ss overall credit limit £5300, it would have been proportionate for 
J D Williams to have carried out checks on the level of Mrs Ss living costs and sums owed 
to other creditors, with the aim of ensuring that it was likely shed be able to repay this 
overall credit limit in a sustainable way. But based on the information hed seen, he didnt 
think there was enough to show that J D Williams shouldnt have provided Mrs S with this 
level of credit. 
Our adjudicator also thought that the increases made to Mrs Ss accounts before October 
2017 didnt show or suggest irresponsible lending by J D Williams. However, in October 
2017 J D Williams increased the credit limited on the second account to £1200. This 
meant that she had an overall credit limit with J D Williams of £6800. By this time Mrs S 
had already missed a total of 25 payments on her various accounts. Our adjudicator also 
noted that Mrs S had previously missed 13 payments in the 12 months leading up to her 
previous credit limit increase  to her seventh account  in October 2016. At the same 
time there was evidence that her debt commitments elsewhere had increased and shed 
began to struggle to meet some of those repayments on time too. Our adjudicator thought 
that by that time it would have been proportionate for J D Williams to have taken steps to 
verify Mrs Ss level of income and committed expenditure. Our adjudicator thought that 
taking into account the number of missed payments on her accounts, J D Williams ought 
to have been aware of the possibility that Mrs S could have been getting into financial 
difficulty. 
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
adjudicator did and for the same reasons. 
When Mrs S opened each of her accounts, J D Williams has told us there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed what we know about these 
checks, and taking into consideration the low opening credit limits that were set for each 
account, I dont think theres enough evidence or information to suggest that it would have 
been unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved these accounts. From what Ive seen 
J D Williams didnt ask about Mrs Ss income, which is something that may have helped it 
begin to build a picture of Mrs Ss financial circumstances. However, from what Ive seen I 
dont think knowing this information ought to have changed these early lending decisions. 
J D Williams said the credit limits it set were affordable for Mrs S and that she was able to 
keep up with the payments for each account that were often more than the minimum. In 
making my decision Ive looked at these points as well as the overall pattern of 
J D Williams lending history with Mrs S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
J D Williams should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it 
shouldnt have further increased Mrs Ss credit limits.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ss case, and based on the information Mrs S 
and J D Williams have given, I agree that the point was in October 2017 when 
J D Williams ought to have been aware that Mrs S was having  difficulty with meeting her 
monthly payments and appears to have also have been having problems meeting credit 
commitments elsewhere. I say this because the account information provided to us by 
J D Williams shows that by this time there was significant history of missed payments on 
her accounts that had started in 2015, accelerated in 2016 and continued in 2017. I think 
it follows that that there was a potential likelihood that any further credit would be 
unaffordable or otherwise harmful to Mrs S. So I agree with our adjudicators view that 
J D Williams ought not to have increased her credit limit any further. This is because it was clear she wasnt able to sustainably repay the balances currently outstanding on her 
accounts and hadnt been able to do so for a significant period of time. 
I therefore think Mrs S lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit from 
October 2017 onwards. In my view, J D Williams should have realised by then that Mrs S 
might well have been getting into financial difficulty, given that she was experiencing 
problems in meeting her monthly indebtedness to J D Williams. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr S says hes unhappy about the way J D Williams continued to 
handle his mothers accounts, after he first contacted them in January 2019. I can see that 
perhaps JD Williams could have operated the accounts better by limiting further 
communications with Mrs S. But given that it didnt open any new accounts for her after that 
date and nor does it appear her spending on the accounts exceeded £6400, I cant say that 
its actions caused Mrs S any further difficulties other than by not taking action by October 
2017, as Ive already mentioned. 
It follows that I agree J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mrs Ss accounts to ensure that from 3 October 2017 onwards, 
interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £6400, 
including any buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place 
before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on any account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mrs S to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan for this account. Once Mrs S has repaid the 
outstanding balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mrs Ss credit file from 3 October 2017 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no 
longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mrs S, along with 8% simple interest per 
year on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) 
until the date of settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse 
information from Mrs Ss credit file from 3 October 2017 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Ss complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman