DRN-4386243
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim they made under 
the accidental damage section of their home insurance policy for damage to their sofa.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what has happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Mr and Mrs Y made a claim which was declined by Aviva. It said under the policy chewing, 
scratching, tearing or fouling by domestic animals was excluded. And, as Mr Y had told it 
hed seen the damage being caused by two cats, the claim was declined. 
Mr Y is unhappy Aviva is suggesting theyre dishonest. He says this problem has been 
caused by a language barrier as it was an assumption made by him the damage was caused 
by cats, not what he saw. They dont have any cats, Mr Y didnt see any animals in his sitting 
room and considers the damage was more likely caused by foxes. Further, even if cats had 
caused the damage to their sofa, he finds the term unfair.
My role is to consider whether Aviva has declined Mr and Mrs Ys claim in accordance with 
the terms of the policy, acting fairly and reasonably. Having done so, Im satisfied it did. Ill 
explain why.
Ive listened to the call Mr Y made to notify Aviva of the claim and part of this conversation is 
below. 
Mr YWell it was hot yesterday and we had left patio doors open. My wife was 
upstairs, I was in studyand I came to sitting room and I saw two cats on the 
sofa. One of them had put their claw into the cushion and the other one was 
on the single chair with its claws on the hand of the sofa.
Aviva Ok, so the cats have damaged the sofa, is that right?
Mr Y Yes, we don't have cats so not sure if neighbours or what.
Mr Y says the word what at the end of this sentence shows he was describing what he 
thought might have happened.  Further, the cat couldnt have been on the armchair and 
have its claws on the sofa and the damage is more consistent with biting rather than claws.
Having listened to the call and considered the evidence, I dont see things the same as Mr Y. 
Im satisfied he was clear in the call when he described what he had seen and I dont 
consider this was misunderstood due to a language barrier. I say this because Mr Y went 
into details about what he saw on entering the sitting room and answered clear questions 
about the cause of the damage to confirm it was cats. And he didnt mention foxes or not 
having seen the cats himself at any point in the call when the exclusion about domestic 
animals was discussed by the call handler.
I appreciate Mr Y says he called Aviva back after the claim was declined to explain it must 
have been foxes. But, taking everything into account, I consider it was fair and reasonable 
for Aviva to rely on what Mr Y said in his first call to decline the claim. 
I note Mr Y says this term isnt fair - it was a top of the range policy and everything should be 
covered. But this isnt generally the case for insurance policies  its common to find matters 
which are excluded from cover, and Im satisfied Mr Ys policy sets this out. So, I dont 
consider the policy term Aviva relies on to be unfair such that it isnt entitled to rely on it in 
this matter. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs Y will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what 
we  in trying to resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman