DRN-4329715
The complaint
Mr L complains about a decision by Lloyds Bank PLC (who Ill call Lloyds) to reject a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I dont think Lloyds have been unreasonable here.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
When something goes wrong and some or all of the payment was made with a credit card, 
as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
CCA says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a right 
to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
 
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of any legal claim Mr L may have under sections 75 but 
Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether Lloyds were 
reasonable to reject his claim.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the goods should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances, and that the goods should be durable.
Mr L had the earphones for about 18 months before they failed. I think, given the length of 
time that had passed, that the onus was on him to demonstrate the goods hadnt been 
supplied in a satisfactory condition. The goods worked for many months, so I dont think 
theres evidence of a fault being present when they were supplied to Mr L. Ive, therefore, 
gone on to consider whether they could be considered not to have been durable. The report 
Mr L commissioned says that one of the earphones isnt switching on and that it is suspected 
that there is an internal fault relating to either the battery or the board. The report doesnt 
comment on whether the goods would therefore be deemed durable. While I can understand 
that Mr L would have wanted the earphones to have lasted longer, I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence to suggest they have failed prematurely, and I dont think Lloyds were 
therefore unreasonable to rejection his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman