DRN-4403052
Complaint
Miss S complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In August 2020, Moneybarn provided Miss S with finance for a used car. The cash price of 
the vehicle was £34,995.00. Miss S paid a deposit of £9,995.00 and entered into a 45-month 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £25,000.00. The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £14,544.12 and the total amount to be repaid of 
£39,544.12 (excluding the deposit of £9,995.00) was due to be repaid in 44 monthly 
instalments of £898.73. 
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Miss S complaint should be upheld. Miss S disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss S could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss S. During this assessment, Miss S provided details of her monthly 
income. Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Miss S which showed that 
she had previously defaulted on credit but the most recent default took place approaching 
two years prior to the date of this application. 
But when the amount Miss S already owed plus a reasonable amount for Miss S living 
expenses, based on average data, were deducted from her monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss S says she was already struggling at 
the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss S and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, Moneybarn will have seen adverse information recorded on Miss S 
credit file as a result of the credit search carried out. Furthermore, Miss S was committed to 
making large monthly payments over an extended period. So Im satisfied that Moneybarn 
needed to take further steps to verify Miss S actual living costs, rather than rely on average 
data, in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Id normally go on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Miss S. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Miss S regular living expenses as well as her income and 
existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss S has provided us with. And having done so, this 
information does appear to show that when Miss S committed regular living expenses and 
existing credit commitments are deducted from her household income (Miss S and her 
partner appear to have been operating joint finances), she did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that        
Miss S had sufficient funds in order for the monthly payments to this agreement to be made 
in a sustainable manner. Indeed while this doesnt, on its own, demonstrate that the 
agreement was affordable, Im nonetheless mindful that the all the payments were 
maintained and the finance agreement was even settled early. Given the large monthly 
payment, this does appear to suggest that Miss S had the funds to repay what shed owe as 
a result of this agreement.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Miss S did go far enough, 
Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. 
Overall Ive therefore not been persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly towards Miss S 
when it lent to her and Im not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman