DRN-2839991
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim on the insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd she 
arranged for her horse. Shes unhappy that QIC declined a claim because it considered the 
condition to be pre-existing.
What happened
In the autumn of 2018 Mrs B bought a horse and it was moved to a livery yard. Following this 
Mrs B has told us the horse was showing signs of stress, including muscle tightness in its 
back, so she arranged for some physiotherapy. 
The first physiotherapy appointment was in March 2019. The clinical notes from the time 
detailed stiffness and weakness of muscles throughout the horses core and into the gluteal 
muscles. It was detailed that a new saddle had been fitted to the horse in December 2018.
In March 2019 Mrs B took out the insurance policy with QIC.
The next physiotherapy appointment was in April 2019. The notes from the time detailed that 
the horses saddle had been recently checked and due to the horse having changed shape 
significantly, the gullet had been changed. The horse was recorded as having been very 
unsettled and had been rearing in the previous two weeks. Some of the pain was put down 
to the horse being in season, but stiffness was again detailed in the core and gluteal 
muscles, although it had improved since the previous appointment. The use of a TENS 
machine was prescribed.
When the physiotherapist saw the horse in May 2019, it was reported there had been a huge 
improvement. The stiffness was described as mild at this time and core strength was 
improving. It was recommended treatment with the TENS machine was continued. 
In October 2019 the horse was moved to a different livery yard. Mrs B explained to our 
investigator that the horse again showed signs of stress from the move. In addition, the 
owner of the new yard suggested there might be a problem with the horses back.
In January 2020 Mrs B completed a claim form for treatment for the horse. She detailed that 
in December 2019 she had noticed a lack of performance, which had led to her organising a 
vet to assess the horse. The section of the form completed by the vet detailed that the horse 
was suffering from back spasms. The attached clinical notes detailed the horse was 
struggling to canter and was uncomfortable through its back. This was eventually diagnosed 
as kissing spine.
In February 2020 QIC declined the claim for treatment for kissing spine as it believed the 
condition had existed when the policy was arranged in March 2019. This was because the 
horse had been treated five times between March and September 2019 for back pain. The 
first treatment was before the policy had been arranged and the second was within the 
45-day initial limited cover period on the policy. QIC considered this meant Mrs B had known 
about the horses back problem when shed applied for the policy, but she hadnt declared it 
on the policy application. 
Mrs B wasnt happy that QIC declined the claim. She appealed the decision and explained 
the circumstances of the treatment provided by the physiotherapist. She said shed filled in 
the application form correctly based on what she knew at the time. The initial physiotherapy 
appointments were for back soreness and that this was extremely mild, and Mrs B believed 
was linked to her saddle and the recent move  she didnt believe the back issues in the 
spring and summer of 2019 were related to those that started in the winter of that year. 
Mrs B also provided further comment from the physiotherapist that had treated her horse 
between March and September 2019. She explained she had first attended the horse on a 
maintenance check call because the move of stable had apparently caused a lot of stress. 
She went on to confirm: 
With stress comes tension and soreness, therefore we associated her bad (sic) pain with 
the move and the fact that she had not been treated before. The second treatment detailed 
that the horse had changed shape significantly, therefore [Mrs B] had the saddle fitter to 
adjust and refit the saddle to allow the horse to be more comfortable. The TENS machine 
was prescribed purely to help with back pain following the ill-fitting saddle. It also allowed 
[horse name] to relax within her treatments. As you can see from treatments 3-5 [horse 
name] dramatically improved, giving us indication that her back pain was in fact associated 
with muscular tension and stress, not back pathology. At no point did [Mrs B] or myself have 
a conversation about Kissing Spine because she was improving the way I would expect a 
sore horse with saddle problems and stress to improve.
QIC considered the complaint, but it didnt change its mind about declining the claim. It went 
into more detail about the veterinary and physiotherapy evidence and highlighted that this 
led it to believe the horse had been suffering from stiffness in its back muscles the day 
before Mrs B took out the insurance policy and that this had been a recurring problem that 
had improved with treatment. The underlying cause of which was later diagnosed as kissing 
spine. QIC remained satisfied the clinical evidence showed the condition existed before the 
policy was arranged.
In addition, QIC highlighted that the policy application asked whether the horse had exhibited 
any symptoms of illness or disease including lameness, recurrent stiffness or poor 
performance, whether or not attended by a vet. Mrs B had said no, despite the horse having 
been treated for stiffness of the back muscles the day before. QIC said that had this been 
declared, it would have placed an exclusion on the policy for all losses arising directly or 
indirectly from the back including the sacroiliac other than accidental, external injuries 
involving an open wound only. However, even without that exclusion on the policy, the claim 
was defeated by the general exclusion for pre-existing conditions: any condition that your 
horse has suffered from before the start date of your current policy are deemed to be pre-
existing and so are not covered by your insurance policy. 
Mrs B didnt accept QICs position and so she referred her complaint to this service. When 
she did so she explained that the horse had been a bit stressed when it arrived after 
purchase and so she got a physiotherapist to check it over. She said she always had a 
physiotherapist check her horses as good routine for the animal. The physiotherapist said 
the saddle might be too tight, which was why she was experiencing stress. The ongoing 
treatments were just to make sure the horse was okay. The reason she didnt declare the 
issue to the insurer was because it wasnt anything to be concerned about. It was not until 
the horse was transferred to a different livery yard in October 2019 that the yard owner 
suggested there was a problem, the vet became involved and kissing spine was eventually 
diagnosed. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She was satisfied the evidence showed that before the policy was taken out the horse had 
back problems, which should have been declared to QIC. Had it been declared; the policy 
would have included an exclusion that would have meant there was no cover for the claim 
that was later made. Overall, she was satisfied it was reasonable for QIC to have declined 
the claim.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said the horse hadnt displayed 
symptoms of illness, stiffness, lameness, lack of performance or disease at the time shed 
applied for the policy. The horse had some soreness in her back, which had been attributed 
to a poorly fitted saddle and improved after she bought a new one. There was no reason for 
her to declare anything as none of the criteria QIC had set had been met. Mrs B went on to 
say she felt QIC had used the physiotherapists report to its advantage, but not to hers when 
further comments had been supplied after the claim had been rejected. She feels she is 
being punished for treating her horse well and providing regular physio. In fact, Mrs B said 
she doesnt now believe the problems in December 2019 were linked to the kissing spine 
diagnosis, but rather a different health issue that was diagnosed later (and for which QIC 
paid a claim). 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided it should be passed to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC considers when Mrs B applied for her policy, she should have told it about the problems 
her horse was already having. Mrs B doesnt consider she needed to report the problems 
because they were caused by a poor fitting saddle and effectively, they werent really a 
medical issue.
Mrs B has explained that she arranged for the horse to be assessed and treated by the 
physiotherapist because it had been having problems, which were thought to be stress 
related, since being moved to the livery yard after the purchase in 2018. This would indicate 
the problems were ongoing when the physiotherapist first assessed the horse in 
March 2019. 
At that time, it was detailed that the horse had weakness and stiffness throughout its core 
and gluteal muscles. QIC asked Mrs B if her horse was exhibiting illness or disease including 
recurrent stiffness. Mrs B believes that the problems were due to a poor fitting saddle, not 
illness, but this isnt reflected in the clinical notes from March 2019. Whilst it was noted the 
saddle had been adjusted by the time of the visit in April 2019, it was also detailed that this 
was due to the change in shape of the horse. It wasnt recorded at that time the problems 
with the horses core and gluteal muscles, or its change in shape, were due to the saddle 
being poorly fitted. Whilst I note the later comments from the physiotherapist, we tend to 
place more weight on evidence from the time of treatment, rather than later recollections 
which can be coloured by hindsight.
I dont think Mrs B deliberately tried to conceal anything from QIC, but I am satisfied that she 
should have declared the problems with her horses back and core. If she had done so, I am 
satisfied QIC would have included an exclusion that would have excluded the claim made in 
January 2020.I note that Mrs B has said she doesnt believe the problems her horse was experiencing in 
late 2019, which led to the claim in question, were due to the diagnosis of kissing spine. I 
cant comment on that as there is no veterinary evidence relating to that conclusion. If that 
were the case, Mrs B might want to provide any new evidence she has about the issue to 
QIC for consideration. That said, I dont consider QIC was wrong in concluding the back 
problems that were claimed for in January 2020 were a continuation of the problems that 
started before the policy was bought. I say this as the physiotherapists clinical notes from 
November 2019 and January 2020 (after the claim) detail the stiffness in the same areas as 
previously, although by January 2020 it had expanded to some new areas. 
Overall, I am satisfied QIC was not unreasonable in declining the claim made for the 
veterinary treatment that started in January 2020 for back problems.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 
10 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman