DRN-4489191
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a joint mortgage he is a party to with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
(BoI). He is unhappy that his application to add a new interest rate product to the mortgage, 
and extend its term was declined. He has told us that BoI assured him that changes could be 
made to a joint mortgage without the consent of both borrowers, but it then declined to make 
the changes he asked for without that consent. This has meant that he is going to have to 
sell the property earlier than planned.
Mr W has also raised the fact that despite a court order making him solely responsible for 
the mortgage payments going forward, BoI has told him it still holds his ex-wife responsible 
for the mortgage. However, despite this, he doesnt believe it has pursued her for the 
monthly mortgage payments when he has paid less than the full amount. 
Mr W says in settlement of the complaint he would like BoI to recognise the court order, 
accept that exceptional circumstances exist, and agree to make the changes to the 
mortgage Mr W wanted, without the other borrowers consent. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr W and a joint borrower took out a mortgage with BoI. It was arranged on a 
repayment basis over a term of 25 years. 
The borrowers separated (with Mr W remaining in the property) and from October 2022 there 
were discussions between Mr W and BoI about the situation. Mr W confirmed that he and 
the other borrower wanted different things in relation to the mortgaged property. It was also 
confirmed the joint borrower was not contributing to the cost of the mortgage. 
As Mr W had told BoI he couldnt afford the mortgage, it completed an income and 
expenditure exercise to assess Mr Ws situation. This showed Mr W had a disposable 
income of around £300. Despite this, BoI explained that it could provide him with temporary 
arrangements that would help with the affordability of the mortgage, if he wanted it to. He 
declined as he didnt want his credit rating affected. 
In November Mr W didnt make the full mortgage payment and the account went into arrears. 
The amount of the arrears was not sufficient to be reported on Mr Ws credit file. He asked 
BoI to chase the joint borrower for the shortfall. It said it would do that, but it would also want 
to speak to him about making up the payment. BoI again offered to make an arrangement 
that would allow Mr W to pay less to the mortgage, but he declined again.
A further income and expenditure assessment was completed in December 2022. This again 
determined that Mr W had a disposable income after the mortgage and his basic outgoings 
were paid. He confirmed to BoI that he didnt want to use that money to bring the mortgage 
up to date. Instead he wanted BoI to chase the joint borrower for the money.  Mr W 
maintained this position thereafter and declined to go through further income and 
expenditure exercises whenever this was suggested by BoI.
In February 2023 Mr W approached BoI again. He told it that the property had been 
allocated to him under a court order, but with the most recent interest rate increase, the 
monthly payment was unaffordable. BoI offered to look at whether it could offer any 
forbearance solutions for the short-term, but Mr W declined. 
Subsequently, Mr W asked to make alterations to the mortgage. As the mortgage at that 
time was on BoIs standard variable rate of interest, Mr W wanted to add a two-year fixed 
interest rate product to it. In addition, he also asked to extend the term of the mortgage to 30 
years in order to reduce the monthly payments. Mr W was told that the joint borrower would 
need to agree to the alterations. He indicated that he believed the other borrower would 
agree.
BoI issued a mortgage offer for the changes Mr W asked for the day after he spoke to the 
mortgage adviser. The offer was valid for 30 days and expired because the joint borrower 
didnt agree to the offer. Mr W asked if the changes could be made without the joint borrower 
and BoI said it would consider if it could agree to do so. Mr W provided a copy of a court 
order setting out the financial settlement regarding the mortgaged property.
BoI decided that it would not be appropriate in the circumstances for it to agree to make the 
changes to the mortgage without the joint borrowers consent. Mr W was not happy about 
this decision and asked for the joint borrower to be removed from the mortgage. There were 
then discussions about removing the joint borrower from the mortgage and property title, but 
it was highlighted that the joint borrower would need to consent. Later in these discussions 
Mr W introduced the concept of taking some additional borrowing. An affordability check was 
completed for the increased mortgage amount in just Mr Ws name, but it failed and so the 
request was declined. Again, it was agreed that the request to alter the mortgage without the 
joint borrowers consent would be referred for consideration. BoI again concluded that it 
would not be appropriate in the circumstances. Mr W complained.
BoI responded to Mr Ws complaint in its letter of 13 June 2023. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong in its dealings with Mr W. Further correspondence was exchanged, but BoI 
didnt change its position on the complaint. Mr W remained unhappy and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
considered that in the circumstances, it was not unreasonable for BoI not to allow changes 
to the mortgage without the joint borrowers consent. 
Mr W didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. He asked why the Investigator had not 
commented on BoIs actions in terms of the Mortgage Charter, which was published by the 
Regulator in June 2023. He highlighted that flexibility was being offered to borrowers under 
the Charter, but he was not being offered anything. Mr W also commented that BoI hadnt 
chased the joint borrower when she was not making contributions toward the mortgage. In 
addition, he said that it appeared that the court order, removing the joint borrowers liability to 
make mortgage payments had no bearing in the real world. Mr W asked that the complaint 
be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
The Investigator considered what Mr W had said, but it didnt alter his conclusions. As such, 
the complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans review.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2023, in which I set out my conclusions about 
the complaint and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Usually, when a complaint is made about a joint financial product, we will require the 
involvement of both of the accountholders. There are some situations where we will consider a complaint without the joint accountholders consent, but when we do so, we can only 
consider the impact the actions of a business has on that accountholder. In addition, the 
financial business will only be able to provide us with limited information that relates to the 
other accountholder, and we would be unable to pass that information on to the complainant. 
This means that in this case, I can only consider the discussions and requests Mr W had 
with BoI about the situation and any difficulties he was having in relation to the mortgage 
payment. 
Mr W has said that BoI has ignored the court order in relation to it making him responsible 
for the mortgage  because it has said it still holds the joint borrower responsible. The court 
order Mr W has referenced relates to the financial settlement between him and the joint 
borrower. It says that the property doesnt need to be sold until a certain date, and Mr W has 
the option to buy the joint borrower out of the property in the meantime. However, during the 
period until the property had to be sold, Mr W was to be responsible for paying the 
mortgage. 
As has been explained previously, the court order set out the arrangements between the 
borrowers, but it did not place any requirements or obligations on BoI to do anything in 
relation to the mortgage. It also did not supersede the mortgage contract that both parties 
entered into with BoI. As such, the borrowers remain jointly and severally liable for the 
mortgage payments and to repay the capital in the event the mortgage is called in. However, 
in real terms, if the mortgage was being paid in line with the requirements of the contract by 
one of the borrowers, the lender would not pursue the other for a contribution. How 
mortgage payments are made is a matter for borrowers to sort out between themselves and 
not something lenders would choose to become involved in. 
I would also explain at this stage the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (known as MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help 
borrowers in arrears due to financial difficulties. A lender is required to explore ways to 
resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem that created the arrears to begin with is 
one that looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved. 
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such as transferring 
a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a 
period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to 
ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. The requirement for a lender to 
try to help a borrower doesnt mean that a borrower should be given whatever they ask for, 
but rather the lender needs to determine if it can put forward any proposals that will actually 
help, and not just postpone the inevitable if the mortgage isnt and wont be affordable going 
forward. 
The first stage of a lender looking into providing support to a borrower is for it to complete an 
assessment of the borrowers finances. As Mr W had said the joint borrower was not 
contributing and he was finding it difficult to make the monthly payments, BoI did this based 
on Mr Ws sole income and the outgoings for the mortgaged property, where he was still 
living. This assessment showed that while his finances might have been constrained, he still 
had a disposable income on both occasions. The latter of these was conducted in December 
2022 and showed a disposable income of around £240 each month. Despite this, BoI offered 
to look into forbearance options to provide Mr W with some breathing space, but he declined 
the offer as he didnt want his credit file affected.
Mr W declined to complete further assessments of his circumstances after this, saying that 
they had not changed. While the mortgage did for a short period go into arrears, this appears 
to be because Mr W chose to pay less than the full monthly payment, in order to prompt BoI 
to chase the joint borrower for the amount of the arrears, which it did. However, subsequently, Mr W cleared the arrears, which had never been equal to one monthly 
payment and, therefore, didnt affect his credit file. 
When Mr W asked to alter the mortgage to make it easier for him to afford, after the court 
order set out that he should maintain the mortgage payments alone, BoI conditionally agreed 
to offer what he wanted  a term extension and a new interest rate product. The condition it 
placed on the offer was that both borrowers agreed to the changes. Given the court order 
required the property to be sold at a certain point, which was several months before the end 
of the product being applied for, and so an early repayment charge (ERC) was likely to be 
incurred, this change would have had a material affect on the other borrower. In addition, the 
term extension would involve less capital being paid off the balance of the mortgage, which 
again could have had an effect on the amount the joint borrower would receive when the 
property was sold. As such, the changes could have had a material financial impact on the 
joint borrower. In those circumstances, I dont consider it was unreasonable for BoI to 
require both borrowers to agree to the changes. 
Mr W is unhappy that, despite being told in exceptional circumstances, BoI could waive the 
need for the consent of the joint borrower, it didnt do so in his case. I can see from its 
records that BoI did consider whether it should allow the changes Mr W wanted without the 
consent of the other borrower, but decided it was not appropriate. This type of action would 
usually only be taken where the party paying the mortgage was experiencing financial 
difficulties and their need outweighed any financial detriment to the other borrower. In this 
case, the assessments that BoI was able to complete showed that Mr W was able to afford 
the mortgage payments and there was a real potential for the joint borrower to be 
disadvantaged by what Mr W wanted. As such, I dont consider it was unreasonable for BoI 
to conclude the circumstances were such that it wasnt appropriate to alter the mortgage 
without the joint borrowers consent. 
As for the matter of BoI explaining the concepts of transfer of equity and transfer of title to 
Mr W, I dont think it did anything wrong in the circumstances. It was right that one of these 
processes would need to be completed in order to remove the other borrower from the 
mortgage, which Mr W asked about doing. Nor was it BoIs place to decide that the joint 
borrower would not consent to either of these actions  that was a matter between Mr W and 
the joint borrower. It is also not unreasonable for BoI not to want to get involved in any 
disputes between the two borrowers. 
Mr W has raised the issue that BoI has not offered him anything under the Mortgage 
Charter. At the point Mr W complained to BoI and it responded to the complaint, the terms of 
the Mortgage Charter that he is referring to  term extensions, early access to interest rate 
products and temporary changes to an interest-only repayment basis  were not in place. 
They didnt come into force until July 2023. However, as Mr W included this in his complaint 
to this service, BoI has commented that given the situation it believed both borrowers would 
need to consent in the circumstances it was aware of when last Mr W gave it details. 
The mortgage charter is there to support borrowers who are finding their finances challenged 
and in order to help them not fall into financial difficulties with their mortgage. Based on the 
information I have from the last time Mr Ws financial situation was assessed by BoI, it would 
not appear that Mr W fell into this category. As such, I am not persuaded that Mr Ws need 
outweighs the potential financial detriment to the other borrower such that he should be 
granted changes to the mortgage without consent of the joint borrower. However, if Mr Ws 
circumstances have changed and he still wants to alter the mortgage under the charter, he 
should approach BoI, so that it can make a fresh assessment of his circumstances.
BoI confirmed it had received the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.Mr W didnt accept my conclusions. He said he believed my provisional decision had been 
made based on inaccurate inferences and misunderstanding of the dire financial straits that 
he finds himself in. He feels the entire response focussed on his ex-partner not being 
financially disadvantaged, rather than the position he has found himself in. He went on to 
reiterate the situation in relation to his ex-partner, the mortgage, the ex-partner not having 
fulfilled her responsibility. He repeated his belief that BoI didnt contact his ex-partner for 
payment of arrears and has not done enough to make her pay her share of the mortgage. 
He also didnt consider the financial benefit his ex-partner had received because she hadnt 
had to contribute to the mortgage had been taken into account.
In addition, Mr W considered that BoI had not fulfilled its duty of care toward him as there 
was no surplus income as has been referenced. He went on to say that the money that had 
been labelled as disposable income was required for expenses not included in the figures he 
had given BoI, such as prescriptions, dental charges, maintenance/repairs to the property 
and family trips/holidays. He commented that the budget planner that BoI asked for 
information to complete didnt make allowances for school lunches, school trips, car 
expenses, heating, Sky television, and luxuries  it only allowed for the basics. He confirmed 
that he is now in arrears with some household bills. 
Mr W also reiterated his comments about BoI insisting on him applying for a transfer of 
equity and the costs it would have incurred. He went on to ask what constituted exceptional 
circumstances. He also said that BoI had not offered him any assistance, either in the short 
or longer terms, and this was because he believes his ex-partner would have to consent to 
any arrangements, which BoI knows she will not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said BoI didnt offer him any either short- or long-term options to assist with his 
circumstances. I have reviewed the contact records again and I am satisfied that BoI offered 
to look into forbearance options to assist him on more than one occasion, but he was not 
interested in anything that might have an impact on his credit file, which many such options 
would have. That process would also have involved assessments of his financial situation, 
which Mr W declined to engage with latterly. So I cant find that BoI wasnt willing to try to 
assist Mr W if he was genuinely in financial difficulties.
I have noted Mr Ws comments about the budget he was asked to provide information for, 
and from which BoI concluded he had a disposable income. I would initially confirm that it 
would not take account of luxuries and nice to have items, as it is assessing the 
circumstances of a person stating they cannot afford their mortgage  it is assumed that a 
person in that position would forgo luxuries and prioritise essentials.  However, that said, all 
normal household expenditure, such as car expenses like road tax and maintenance, should 
be included. My provisional decision was based on the situation when Mr W last agreed to 
co-operate with BoI assessing his financial situation. If that situation has changed since, or 
he thinks some outgoings were missed previously, I would encourage Mr W to speak to BoI 
and engage in a further assessment to see if there are things BoI can do to assist him, 
whether under the mortgage charter or under its usual forbearance arrangements. 
I have considered everything Mr W and BoI have said and provided. I have reviewed the file 
again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, I am still of 
the opinion that based on the information BoI had at the relevant time, it didnt act 
inappropriately. However, I would encourage Mr W to fully engage with BoI going forward, 
especially if his financial situation has deteriorated as he has indicated.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman