DRN-2835176
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) have declined a claim he made 
under his buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to AXA includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. The 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Mr A has referred to other ombudsmans decisions as evidence of why his complaint should 
be upheld. But my decision considers the specifics of this complaint and I wont be 
commenting on another decision a different ombudsman has made. 
Having considered all of the evidence in this case, I have to tell Mr A that I think the 
investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. 
Ill explain why.
When reaching my decision, my main consideration is whether AXA have fairly and 
reasonably considered the claim - in line with the policy terms. And, if theyve treated 
Mr A fairly and reasonably overall.
Mr A tried to make a claim under this policy for damage related to water from the 
bathroom area of his property. AXA arranged for an inspection the damaged areas 
and this occurred on 25 January 2021. In summary, their findings were:
The grout has cracked over a period of time to the wall tiles and to the corner 
the walls meets the wall allowing water to run underneath and downwards. 
The bath has been resealed as some stage. Water is dripping from the 
copper pipe causing damage to the vinyl flooring. No damage has been 
caused by an escape of water.
Under the policy terms, escape of water is referred to as: 
Loss or damage resulting from escape of water.
Sudden and unexpected water leaking from or freezing in any washing 
machine, dishwasher, fridge, freezer or fixed domestic water, drainage or 
heating installation.
AXA also concluded that some of the damage may have been caused by
condensation - which isnt covered by this policy. 
Mr A has argued that his claim is covered under this term, as the loss occurred on 5 
January 2021, around 6 months after a building survey had been completed and 
concluded that the bathroom didnt require any repairs. 
Ive seen the evidence AXA has relied on to reach its conclusion and I dont find their 
conclusion unreasonable. I say this because photographs clearly show cracks and 
gaps in the grouting in a number of places that it would seem reasonable to assume, 
would have allowed water to pass through for some time. I say some time, because 
typically, grouting (to the extent and the nature that its failed here), doesnt 
deteriorate immediately. A video provided of the bath being run and the underneath 
of the bath area also doesnt appear to show any water escaping from pipes or pipe 
joints - which in my opinion further supports that the poor grouting was the proximate 
cause of the damage here. 
Ive also carefully considered this against a surveyors report dated June 2020 which  
concluded that the bathroom didnt require any repairs around 7 months prior to the 
claim being made. 
From experience, generally reports of this nature will be a general overview of the 
property and not always a detailed inspection of the areas being reported on. But Ive 
noted that the report states:
There is visible plumbing in the bathroom to which no defects were 
apparent.
This finding - combined with the video of underneath the bath showing no leaking 
water evident, in my opinion further supports that the proximate cause here was the 
poor grouting. But Ive also kept in mind that the images of the bathroom arent of a 
high enough quality to allow me to zoom in to view the grouting in sufficient detail or 
compare it to the close-up photos taken in January 2021 by AXAs agent. 
In summary, I dont agree with Mr A that this damage occurred suddenly and 
unexpectedly - as I find it more likely than not the water damage here was gradual 
and not a one-off event that happened unexpectedly on or around 5 January 2021. 
With all due respect to Mr A, Im not persuaded by his testimony that he first became 
aware of it [the grouting issue] after the loss event upon plumber's inspection. In 
my opinion the grouting issue wouldve been visible and Mr A shouldve been 
reasonably aware of it whilst in the bathroom, or at the very least when using the 
bath or shower in the months leading up to January 2021. 
The policy terms include an exclusion thats relevant here and I find AXA can fairly 
rely on:We will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense caused 
by:
1. Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry 
or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance 
and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
On balance, I find that AXA have fairly and reasonably investigated and considered this 
claim inline with the policy terms. I also find that AXA have treated Mr A fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with his claim.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with AXA  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman