DRN-3581740
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) changed the provider of his travel 
insurance that comes with his jointly held Platinum account. 
He says the new provider failed to honor promises made by the previous provider and will 
also not cover his pre-existing medical conditions. He is also unhappy that when Lloyds 
wrote to him about the travel insurance changes, they did not sufficiently highlight the 
differences between the cover provided by the new insurer and old insurer.
What happened
Lloyds decided to change the travel insurance provider for its Platinum account in November 
2021. It wrote to all customers in September 2021 to inform them that this was going to 
occur.
Mr T had purchased an annual upgrade for his travel insurance policy to cover some medical 
conditions with the old travel insurance provider. In September 2021 Mr T had a change in 
medical circumstances and upon later contacting the old insurance provider he says he was 
told he would be covered for upcoming trips as he had booked them prior to the discovery of 
the new medical conditions. He says he was also assured that he would be covered for trips 
that were to take place the following year once the new insurer had taken over. 
In December 2021, Mr T contacted the new insurer and was told that it would not provide 
cover for his new medical conditions. But he says he was told he would be covered for his 
previous medical conditions. However, when attempting to purchase a new annual upgrade 
to the policy in January 2022, Mr T say he was then told by the new insurer that it would not 
cover him for any of his medical conditions.
Mr T complained to Lloyds about this as he did not believe that the letter issued in 
September 2021 was clear about the potential for the above to occur. Lloyds did not agree 
with this.
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and she decided that Lloyds had not done 
anything wrong in relation to this. Mr T disagreed, therefore this complaint was passed to me 
to issue a final decision.
I should stress that this decision will only relate to the actions of Lloyds and not the actions 
of either travel insurance provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
In this instance Lloyds is not the provider of the travel insurance. Given this all it needs to do 
is notify an account holder when things change with notice (as set out in the terms and 
conditions of the account). I can see that it wrote to Mr T prior 2 months prior to the changes 
taking place. So I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong by changing the insurance provider.
Mr T says that the changes summary that was provided as part of this letter did not highlight 
that medical conditions that required an annual additional premium to be covered may not be 
covered by the new insurer. The term that Mr T says that the insurer relied on for this says 
the following
We cannot automatically renew your upgrades or pre-existing medical conditions 
endorsements if you (or anyone else to be insured on the policy) have a pre-existing medical 
condition that needs to be declared even if we have provided cover in the past.
I accept that this term is not contained in full in the small summary of the changes, that said 
the document does say the following in the summary section (I have removed the names of 
the companies involved):
If you have paid for an upgrade to your cover with [OLD INSURER] for risks which are not 
covered under the policy as standard, your upgrade will continue to be underwritten by 
[NEW INSURER] until the expiry date stated in your upgrade schedule and will not be 
cancelled. All claims will be managed by [NEW INSURER] for incident dates on or after 
21 November 2021. You will receive confirmation letters separately from [OLD INSURER] 
and [NEW INSURER] which include more information on who to contact and you wont need 
to take any action. If you renew your upgrade going forward, cover will then be subject to 
[NEW INSURERs] terms and conditions and theres more about this later in the guide.
[NEW INSURER] will contact you to discuss renewal and if you successfully renew a 
medical upgrade you will need to declare any changes in health, or prescribed medication 
before booking a trip.
In the main section of the document Guide to Changes, it also says the following
Unless the only pre-existing medical conditions you have are on the no screen medical 
conditions list shown in the policy, there will be an ongoing requirement to tell the new 
insurer about all medical conditions in the following circumstances:
 When opening your account. 
 When renewing any medical conditions upgrades you have. 
 Any changes in your health or to the health of anyone to be covered by the policy before 
booking a trip. 
For any medical screening, cover for medical conditions may be subject to an additional 
premium or you may be refused cover for the medical condition(s). This will be confirmed 
when you contact the new insurer.
I think that these terms make it clear that the new provider would honour existing upgrades 
to the policy, up until the upgrade was due to renew. But ongoing cover beyond that date 
would then be re-assessed when the annual upgrade expired and that ongoing cover for pre-
existing medical conditions would be dependent on a medical screening and could 
potentially be declined. So, I am satisfied that Lloyds have done what it needed to do under 
the terms and conditions of the account, to inform Mr T about the changes being made to the 
Platinum account travel insurance.I understand that it was unfortunate for Mr T, as he had booked trips that were to take place 
after the annual upgrade had expired and cover for his medical conditions was declined by 
the new provider. I also note that he believes that this makes the travel insurance policy not 
fit for purpose. But I think the terms are reasonably clear and it is ultimately up to him to 
decide whether he wants to continue with his account - in the knowledge that his conditions 
would no longer be covered after the upgrade was due to renew - or get cover elsewhere.
I note that Mr T is unhappy with the information that he was provided with by the old travel 
insurance provider and is also unhappy with the decisions made by the new provider. In both 
instances Mr T would need to direct his concerns about these issues directly with those  
companies. This is because I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the actions of a third party.
I note that Mr T will not be happy with this outcome and I should highlight that this decision 
represents that last stage in our process and there is no further recourse to appeal. That 
said Mr T may be able to pursue his complaint elsewhere, such as court, if he wishes to do 
so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman