DRN-4077980
The complaint
X complains that Weston-Cummins Limited mis-sold annuity policies to him and did not ask 
him the correct questions when completing its due diligence.
What happened
X obtained advice from Weston-Cummins in 2008/2009 in relation to taking out annuity 
policies with an insurer (Ill refer to the insurer as P). 
X says he first became aware he had cause for complaint about the advice hed received in 
2021. He was informed that a close relative who had taken out an annuity policy with P at 
the same time as hed taken out his annuity policies, was paid substantial compensation 
following a review of the sale of his policy. X said hed not been included in that review and 
he believed he should also receive compensation. 
He complained to P but it said that because his complaint related to the advice hed received 
he needed to raise the matter with Weston-Cummins.
X contacted Weston-Cummins. It said it had reviewed its files and was satisfied he had not 
been mis-advised. It noted that its adviser had discussed Xs health with him at the time and 
had sourced several quotations to see if he was eligible for an enhanced annuity. It said that 
the best rates had been with P. It said it had not done anything wrong.
X didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator noted that X had 
brought his complaint to our service within three years of the date when she thought he 
ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause to complain. So she said we could 
look into the complaint. 
Our investigator said that having reviewed the documentation provided by Weston-Cummins 
she was satisfied it had considered options, other than an annuity, when X sought advice. 
He hadnt wanted to pursue any of those other options. 
Weston-Cummins had sent him two recommendation reports. The reason for that was 
because his pension had two elements  a protected rights element and a non-protected 
rights element. In relation to the protected rights element the rules at the time provided that 
the annuity selected had to include a 50% spouses pension. That was not the case for the 
non-protected rights element. Our investigator was satisfied that Weston-Cummins had 
considered different types of annuity including whether X wanted to have a pension which 
increased in line with RPI or whether he wanted an annuity which wouldnt increase each 
year. 
Weston-Cummins had also compared the various annuity rates (including the availability of 
enhanced rates based on Xs health). The rates being offered by P were the best available 
rates at the time. Our investigator didnt think Weston-Cummins needed to do anything more 
to resolve the complaint.
X didnt accept what our investigator said. He said that inadequate due diligence had been 
carried out by Weston-Cummins. Specifically, it hadnt properly considered the provision that 
had been made for his wife. He also asked to see the comparative quotations which Weston-
Cummins had obtained. These were provided to him.
Our investigator asked Weston-Cummins for its further comments. It said that the matter of 
provision for his wife in the event of his death was discussed and considered every time it 
gave advice regarding retirement income to X.
X did not agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Id just comment that under the Rules which apply to our Service, we cant consider a 
complaint if its brought to us more than six years after the event complained of or, if later, 
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint, unless the failure to comply 
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances or the business has given 
us its consent. 
Im satisfied that X brought his complaint more than six years after the event complained of. 
The event complained of took place in 2008/2009.
X says he only became aware in 2021 that his relative had received compensation in relation 
to the sale of an annuity policy. X thought the circumstances surrounding the sale of his 
policies was similar to that of his relative. He hadnt been included in the review or received 
any compensation  so it was only then that he became aware he had cause for complaint. 
He brought his complaint within three years of the date he says he first became aware he 
had cause to complain.
Our investigator thought that based on what shed been provided with, we could look into the 
complaint. Weston-Cummins didnt raise any objection to what she said. And it hasnt 
provided any specific comments or reasons why we shouldnt look into the complaint. 
Having considered all of the information thats been provided, Im satisfied, on balance, that 
this complaint has been brought within three years of when X first became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, he had cause for complaint. So, I agree with our 
investigator when she said that our service can look into his complaint.
Xs complaint is that he believes he was mis-advised when he took out pension annuity 
policies with P. As mentioned above, the main reason for his complaint is that his relative, 
who took out a similar policy at the same time, has received redress. I cannot look into what 
happened in the case of Xs relative. In any event, X now acknowledges that there are 
differences between the circumstances surrounding the sale of his annuity policies and 
those of his relative. But I can look at what happened when X was given advice.
Xs pension included two elements - protected rights and non-protected rights. There were 
separate sales processes in respect of the annuities he purchased with each element.
The Non Protected Rights
Weston-Cummins wrote to X on 11 August 2008. It told him it had received some 
documentation from P, his pension provider, because he was approaching the retirement age hed selected for taking his pension. Weston-Cummins explained that X could defer 
taking any action regarding this matter for several more years. But, if he did want to take his 
benefits at that time, it could look to see if he might be better off with another provider. It also 
told him that if he was unfortunate enough to have certain ill health conditions, it could 
investigate whether he might be eligible for an enhanced pension. It sent him the information 
provided by P.
X met with Weston-Cummins on 9 September 2008. The adviser made a file note of the 
meeting and he also completed a fact find. Ive looked at that documentation. X indicated he 
did want to take his pension benefits. He wanted to take the maximum tax free cash and he 
wanted to maximise the annuity payments he would receive. To achieve this he indicated he 
didnt want an annuity that would increase each year. He wanted to know if P was providing 
the best rate.
The adviser discussed health matters with X and also discussed his general financial 
position and potential future financial transactions. The fact find which was completed also 
contained some brief information about Xs wife.
Weston-Cummins arranged for X to complete a Quotation Request Form for a Pension 
Annuity for Enhanced and Impaired Terms. The purpose of this form was to see if, because 
of Xs health, he might qualify for enhanced terms from any insurers. There is evidence on 
the file that some quotations were received  but the annuity rates offered were lower than 
what P was offering. 
Weston-Cummins also compared rates (on a standard basis) other insurers were offering 
but it concluded that the guaranteed annuity rate being offered by P was still the best rate 
available. Its provided a copy of the research it carried out.
Weston-Cummins prepared its advice and recommendation letter dated 4 December 2008 
which it sent to X. By way of summary, it included the following information:
An explanation of the differences between an annuity purchase and income 
drawdown;
X said he wanted to maximise his tax free cash and his annuity income;
X said he did not want to expose himself to investment risk and wanted to have a 
known level of income;
X had told Weston-Cummins that his wife was his only dependant, but she was 
already provided for in terms of income in retirement if he was to die. X didnt require 
any benefits to be provided for his wife beyond the five year guaranteed period;
Discussed the option to have an increasing annuity;
Considered whether a better rate could be available elsewhere, but concluded that 
after carrying out comparisons, P was offering the best rate; and
Set out risk factors including the following warning in bold:
It is important that you are happy with my recommendation and the fact that 
there are no real death benefits for your wife or increases in the annuity paid 
to you
Weston-Cummins recommended that the annuity should be secured with P. The paperwork  
X was required to complete was included with the letter.
Having considered the sequence of events here and the documentation provided to X 
following his discussions with Weston-Cummins, Im satisfied on balance that Weston-Cummins took reasonable steps when carrying out its due diligence and when giving its 
advice. 
The information in the advice and recommendation letter shows that Weston-Cummins 
discussed Xs objectives, his financial circumstances and attitude to risk with him. The 
advantages and disadvantages of the various options available were included in the letter. 
Before making its recommendation, Weston-Cummins had obtained comparative quotations 
from a number of other providers, including enhanced quotations. It set out the reasons for 
its recommendations in the letter sent to X. That letter also included details about the 
associated risks and highlighted the fact that there were no death benefits for Xs wife. 
Im also satisfied that Weston-Cummins did discuss Xs general financial position with him, 
including the impact that the arrangements he was putting in place would have in relation to 
provision for his wife in the event of his death. The fact that there was a written warning in 
the advice letter highlighting that the arrangements didnt include any real death benefits for 
his wife is evidence that this matter was discussed and Weston-Cummins thought it was 
necessary to document this - in bold. Before completing the paperwork X had the opportunity 
to consider all of the information in the advice letter. 
So, having considered everything, Im not persuaded, on balance, that X was mis-sold the 
annuity policies in respect of the non-protected rights or that he wasnt asked the right 
questions during the due diligence process.
The Protected Rights
Ive then thought about what happened in relation to the sale of the annuity policy for the 
protected rights. 
Weston-Cummins provided an advice and recommendation letter dated 23 February 2009. 
This letter summarised Xs requirements. It stated that X wanted to take tax-free cash as 
hed told Weston-Cummins both he and his wife had sufficient income from other sources. 
Weston-Cummins explained that in relation to protected rights it was a regulatory 
requirement that there should be a 50% spouses benefit in the event of Xs death. 
X had told Weston-Cummins he didnt want an increasing annuity. The letter explained that 
comparative quotations had been obtained and the annuity being offered by P was the best 
available rate. Once again the risk factors were outlined in the letter. The paperwork X 
needed to complete was enclosed with the letter.
Having read the recommendation letter and the supporting information provided by Weston-
Cummins, Im not persuaded that the annuity in respect of the protected rights was mis-sold 
or that Weston-Cummins failed to carry out appropriate due diligence before making its 
recommendation. The advice letter explained the reasons for the recommendation and it 
also explained why the annuity policy had to include a 50% spouses benefit. X had the 
opportunity to consider the information in the advice letter before he completed the 
paperwork.
Whilst I know it will disappoint X, having considered everything here, I think Weston-
Cummins has acted fairly and reasonably. I dont require it to have to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Weston-Cummins Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman