DRN-4290672
The complaint
A company, S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold an income protection 
insurance policy providing cover for its director and key worker, Mr S. 
Mr S has brought this complaint on Ss behalf and, for ease of reading, Ive referred to Mr S 
throughout this provisional decision. 
What happened
Mr S bought an income protection insurance policy in December 2011. The policy was sold
by HSBC during a meeting. The sale was advised  which means that HSBC made a
recommendation to Mr S that the policy met his demands and needs at the time.
In 2022, the underwriter (insurer) of the policy declined a claim which Mr S had made
because it said the policy didnt provide cover for chronic illnesses.
Mr S made a complaint to HSBC that the policy had been mis-sold. HSBC sent a final
response letter to Mr S saying, amongst other things, it was satisfied that the limitations on
future claims for chronic illnesses were highlighted at the point of sale.
Unhappy, Mr S brought the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think HSBC had
done anything wrong. Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was
referred to me as the final stage in our process.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Ss complaint in July 2023. In it, I said:
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has been through a difficult time, and Id like to assure him that
Ive considered his complaint independently and impartially as is required under the rules
that govern us.
Mr S brought a separate complaint to our service about the insurers decline of his claim.
That complaint has already had a final decision made by a different ombudsman and cannot
be revisited. My role when making this provisional decision is limited to considering the
regulated activities which HSBC is responsible for (i.e., the sale of the policy).
This policy was sold on an advised basis. I think its fair and reasonable to apply the
principles set out in relevant industry rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance:
Conduct of Business Sourcebook) to the circumstances of this complaint. Under these rules,
HSBC needed to make sure this insurance policy was suitable for Mr S. It also needed to
provide Mr S with information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading so he
could make an informed decision about whether to buy it. These rules applied when the
policy was sold in 2011, as they do now.
I have no way of knowing for certain exactly what was said during the meeting when this
policy was sold. So, I must base my decision on the available evidence to decide, on the
balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the
circumstances.
I wouldnt generally expect HSBC to provide a verbatim transcript for a sales meeting. Ive
considered the contemporaneous documents from the time of the sale of the policy, which I
think are a persuasive record of what is likely to have been discussed.
The policy application form  which is unsigned by Mr S as it was completed by a HSBC
staff member on his behalf  says:
Iacknowledge that for my own benefit and protection, it is very important that I am
aware of and have considered the effect on the exclusions from cover  for any
chronic illness or for any illness or injury for which the life insured has had treatment,
diagnosis or investigation in the last 12 months. These exclusions have been
explained by the adviser and are set out in the Policy Summary and Policy Document
given to me. I acknowledge that the adviser cannot confirm the potential impact of
any specific medical condition. The box(es) ticked below best describe the life
insureds situation.
The following box was ticked by the HSBC staff member on Mr Ss behalf:
I, the life insured, do not have a chronic illness and have not had any treatment,
diagnosis or investigation for any illness or injury in the last 12 months.
The fact that Mr Ss signature isnt on the application form doesnt mean that its not a
persuasive record of what is likely to have been discussed at the time.
I understand Mr S feels the wording used on the application form indicates that the exclusion
for chronic illnesses only applies where there has been treatment, diagnosis or
investigations for that illness within the last 12 months. I dont agree. I think the application
form clearly refers to chronic illnesses and illnesses for which there have been treatment,
diagnosis or investigation in the last 12 months as two separate things. It wouldnt be
possible for every potential medical condition which could be classified as a chronic illness to
be listed  and this is acknowledged in the application form itself when it references that
HSBCs adviser cannot confirm the potential impact of any specific medical condition.
The application form states that medical reports may be required to support the application. I
dont think this is unclear or misleading. Medical records werent required for cover under
this particular type of policy to be confirmed, and I dont think the adviser needed to
specifically point out to Mr S that his medical records wouldnt be obtained before his
application for the policy was approved. I also dont think the application form needed to
direct prospective purchasers to consult their GP before proceeding with the policy
application. There may be occasions where a prospective purchaser may wish to do this but
its not unreasonable for HSBC to assume that prospective purchasers have an awareness
of their own medical history. In any event, its not for a GP to interpret the policy criteria -
thats for the insurer to do. And I dont think its practical, reasonable or necessary to have a
medical expert present at the sale of policies like this one.
Ive also considered the Financial Planning Report which was signed by Mr S. Ive attached
a copy of this Report to my provisional decision for Mr S to see. The Financial Planning
Report says that Mr S was made aware of the limitations in cover for chronic illnesses.
HSBCs fact-find (a copy of which is also attached for Mr S to see) says that a previous
income protection policy was deferred/declined by underwriting, and that HSBC
recommended to proceed with this policy instead because it didnt required underwriting.There appears to have been some confusion surrounding this point. The statement by HSBC
that this policy didnt require underwriting means that this policy was not tailored or priced
based on the risk presented by Mr Ss individual medical history. Instead, this policy was set
up to provide a more general type of cover, where the insurer limits the risks by setting out
exclusions relating to certain medical conditions. Every insurance policy has an insurer who
underwrites/provides the policy. So, the fact that this policy has an underwriter (an insurer)
doesnt mean that HSBC gave incorrect information to Mr S.
Overall, I think the information which Mr S was given by HSBC was clear, fair and not
misleading. The evidence Ive seen suggests that Mr S wanted to protect his position as a
key worker for S, and that hed already had a previous application for an individually
underwritten income protection insurance policy deferred/declined. Having considered the
features of this policy  including the deferred period  Im satisfied that this policy was
suitable for Mr Ss demands and needs at the time it was sold to him.
Mr S, in return for the premiums paid, had the benefit of this policy for the risk of making a
valid claim which was covered under the terms and conditions of the insurance. The fact that
the policy didnt operate in the way Mr S expected it to when he made his unsuccessful claim
doesnt mean that the policy was of no use to him.
Even if I thought there were failings in HSBCs sales process, Id need to consider what  if
anything - Mr S would have done differently were it not for any such failings. I understand Mr
S says hindsight isnt now relevant and that hed either have kept his previous personal
accident policy or sought cover elsewhere. But personal accident insurance policies
generally provide a different type of cover to income protection insurance policies, and I cant
fairly conclude based on the evidence that Ive seen that Mr S would have been able to
purchase cover elsewhere which didnt contain similar limitations. So, even if were to accept
that HSBC didnt sell this policy in the way it should have, I dont think its likely Mr S would
have acted any differently.
HSBCs final response letter said that this policy was still running and set out various options
for Mr S to consider. If the policy continues to run then Mr S may wish to revisit these
options. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I dont currently intend to direct HSBC to do
anything further.
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further comments to make. 
Mr S responded and said he didnt accept my provisional findings. Mr S said I hadnt taken 
account of his very strong arguments, and that I hadnt specifically addressed any of his 
valid points. Mr S said our service should do more to make sure others arent sold policies 
like this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has told us, and Im satisfied that my provisional 
findings address his key complaint points about the sale of this policy. Our service makes 
independent and impartial decisions about the circumstances of an individual case  were 
not a regulator and we have no power to require businesses to change their general sales 
processes. For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr Ss policy 
was mis-sold to him by HSBC. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman