DRN-3910255
The complaint
Mrs S complains about a conditional sale agreement provided by Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander).
Mrs S says the agreement was mis-sold to her, and that Santander unfairly terminated it. 
She also complains that the car supplied under the agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs S entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander for a 
used car. The car was just over three years old and had travelled around 36,402 miles. The 
cash price was £31,055. 
Mrs S says the car was bought on behalf of her friend, Mr D, who was in the process of 
setting up a new company at that time. Mrs S said she signed the agreement because Mr D 
didnt yet have the relevant financial documents the dealership required to accept a finance 
application in his name. 
Mrs S has told us that she agreed to sign the contract on the understanding that only the first 
payment would go through her bank account. Mrs S says the dealer said the agreement 
would be transferred into Mr Ds name once he received the necessary company and bank 
documents  and that hed have permission to take the car abroad without restrictions. 
Mrs S says she went to the dealership with Mr D on 30 December 2019 to sign the 
paperwork and collect the car. Shes told us that Mr D received a copy of the vehicle logbook 
(V5) issued by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA), showing Mr D had been 
recorded as the registered keeper with effect from that date.  Mrs S says she never received 
a signed paper copy of the agreement, so she wasnt aware of its terms and conditions.
Mrs S has told us that, on 21 January 2020, Mr D asked for the agreement to be put in his 
name, but Santander refused. Mrs S says that, after many phone conversations, Santander 
eventually agreed that the monthly payments for the car could be made from Mr Ds 
business bank account. Mrs S filled out a new direct debit mandate with Mr Ds details and 
sent it to Santander. 
Mrs S says she emailed a letter to Santander on 20 April 2020, complaining that no action 
had been taken to transfer the agreement into Mr Ds name. She says Mr D also raised this 
again when he visited the dealer in July 2020. Mrs S says Mr D was assured Santander 
would send a copy of the agreement, showing him as main borrower. 
On 28 July 2020 the car was driven to Bulgaria in connection with Mr Ds business. Mrs S 
says that, within a week of arriving, there was a problem with the battery. The car was taken 
to a manufacturers garage for diagnostic testing, which confirmed there was an issue with 
the power supply. Mrs S says Mr D had to fly back to the United Kingdom, leaving the car in 
Bulgaria. 
On 10 January 2021 Mrs S wrote to Santander saying that, although the agreement was in 
her name, shed made it clear from the outset that the car was being purchased for Mr Ds 
business. Mrs S went on to say Mr D had been hospitalised due to COVID-19, leaving him 
unable to afford the repayments. Mrs S asked Santander to remove her name from the 
agreement because this was affecting her personal data.
On 20 January 2021 Santander sent Mrs S a default notice, requiring her to pay around 
£28,800 by 9 February 2021 to avoid enforcement action being taken. On 25 February 2021 
Mrs S provided Santander information about the battery problems, asking them to hold off 
any enforcement action whilst she obtained further evidence about this. She says Santander 
refused to take any more monthly payments from Mr D, because theyd decided to terminate 
the agreement.
Mrs S says Mr D had made arrangements for the car to be recovered back to the United 
Kingdom, at considerable expense. But on 1 March 2021 the car was seized by the 
Bulgarian police because Santander had reported it to be stolen. 
Mrs S made a formal complaint to Santander. But they said the agreement had been 
terminated as the car had been taken out of the country, which breached the terms of the 
contract Mrs S had entered into with them. They said they couldnt look into the fault Mrs S 
had reported with the battery because the car was no longer in her possession. Unhappy 
with this response, Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator wrote to both parties on 19 July 2022, setting out her view of the case. She 
said she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by terminating the agreement, because its 
terms and conditions had included specific requirements about taking the car out of the 
United Kingdom. The investigator said she wasnt persuaded that the battery problem meant 
the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when Santander supplied it.
Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review her case. Ill summarise the main points she 
made:
The local dealer had agreed to carry out further testing to find the cause of the fault 
with the battery, but it had been impossible to drive the car back from Bulgaria due to 
the malfunction and the MOT having expired. Once the car had been impounded, 
Santander refused to release it. 
Santander had been notified of the location of the vehicle throughout the period it 
was outside the United Kingdom. But they declared the car to be stolen, which 
resulted in Mr D being arrested and the car being seized by the Bulgarian police. 
Mrs S feels that, when deciding to seize the car, Santander hadnt taken into account 
the circumstances shed explained to them. She feels their allegations of theft were 
unsubstantiated and unproven.
Mrs S wasnt made aware of any defects with the car at the time it was supplied, or 
when it was serviced in July 2020. But battery issues were reported by 
manufacturers garages in Bulgaria on 6 August 2020 and 12 December 2020. Mrs S 
says this happened within six months and 4,000 miles use of the car. 
Mrs S thinks the issue with the hybrid battery should have been covered under the 
cars warranty. She says she sought further information from the manufacturers 
agent in the Netherlands about the production of this type of hybrid battery, as well 
as her local dealer and Santander, but received no response. 
Mrs S doesnt accept that the terms of the agreement had been violated  nor does 
she accept liability for any costs incurred by Santander as a result of the car having 
been seized in Bulgaria. The case was referred to me for a decision. As part of my review, I requested further 
information about the outstanding amount(s) owed under the agreement. 
On 13 December 2022 Santander sent us further evidence. This included a copy of a county 
court judgment dated 1 August 2022, ordering Mrs S to pay Santander a total of £13,252.06.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Why I dont intend to look at some parts of this complaint
Was the agreement mis-sold to Mrs S? 
Was it fair for Santander to end the agreement, report the car as stolen and seize it?
I can see that this has been a very difficult time for Mrs S, and I can understand why 
shed like us to help her resolve the issues shes raised. Although we can look at many 
complaints that are brought to us, sometimes there are limits on what we can do. 
Ive given careful thought to the concerns Mrs S has raised about the agreement having 
been mis-sold to her  and whether it was fair for Santander to terminate the agreement, 
report the car as stolen, and seize it. Although I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs 
S, I dont intend to look into these parts of her complaint. Ill explain why.
The rules under which we operate say there are some circumstances in which I may 
decide to dismiss a complaint without considering its merits. The grounds on which I may 
decide to do this are set out in DISP 3.3.4 of the FCAs Handbook, which is available on 
their website. This includes cases where I consider that the subject matter of the 
complaint has been the subject of court proceedings where there has been a decision on 
the merits.
Santander have provided a copy of Mrs S account statement. This shows that, in August 
2022, the total amount outstanding on the account was £13,252.06. This comprised:
the balance of the amount owed under the finance agreement, 
plus
the cost of Santanders agents visit and legal costs, 
minus
the amount Santander received from the proceeds of the sale of the car.
Ive read the county court judgment dated 1 August 2022. Ive seen that the court ordered 
Mrs S to pay the full amount Santander claimed from her, totalling £13,252.06.
Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied that the court made a judgment on how 
this matter should be settled - in favour of Santander. A court of law is a higher authority 
than our service. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to look into complaints about things a 
court has already made a judgment on. A determination by our service couldnt alter the 
courts findings and could also undermine the legal process. 
Mrs S has told us that she didnt hear anything more from Santander after she received 
the default notice in January 2021. She may wish to apply to the court to ask for the 
judgment to be set aside, for the reasons shes explained to us.
Ive moved on to consider Mrs S complaint about the problem with the cars battery.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, the supplier has a responsibility to make sure the goods are of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, taking 
into account any relevant factors. 
In this case Santander was the supplier of the car. So, the point for me to consider is 
whether the problem with the battery in August 2020 happened because the car hadnt 
been of satisfactory quality when Santander supplied it, just over seven months earlier. 
Ive seen extracts from a document provided by the manufacturers garage dated 4 
August 2020, headed Initial quick test log. It says the power supply of two circuits was 
outside the valid range. The limit for electrical voltage has not been attained. It records 
the cars odometer reading to be 64,848 kilometres at that time, which is equivalent to 
around 40,294 miles. So, I can see the car had travelled just under 4,000 miles since it 
was supplied. 
Ive seen no evidence to show what caused the problem with the battery, or when that 
issue was likely to have developed. In the absence of evidence showing this problem was 
due to a defect that was present or developing at the time the car was supplied to Mrs S, 
Im not persuaded that Santander are liable for this.
I realise Mrs S feels strongly that it hasnt been possible for her to have further diagnostic 
testing carried out due to the car being seized. But further evidence about the fault would 
be unlikely to change my decision. I say this because, even if I was satisfied that 
Santander had supplied a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality, Id need to focus on the 
impact that had on Mrs S. And Ive seen no evidence showing the problems with the cars 
battery had any impact on Mrs S.
The evidence Ive seen shows the car was paid for, and used by, Mr D. Mrs S told us that 
Mr D suffered considerable losses and inconvenience due to the battery problems. But Mr 
D isnt named on the agreement. So, in this decision I wont be considering any financial 
loss, distress or inconvenience caused to Mr D due to problems with the agreement, or 
problems with the car that was supplied under it.  
I said I didnt intend to uphold Mrs S complaint about the fault with the cars battery. And I 
said I intended to dismiss the other parts of her complaint without considering their merits. I 
invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Santander said they had nothing further to add and would accept my provisional decision.
Mrs S said she understood that I cant change a decision made by a county court. She went 
on to say that, although she now understood that shed been ordered to pay the full amount 
of £13,252.06 to Santander, she hadnt previously been aware of this. Mrs S said she didnt agree with my provisional decision because she felt shed provided a 
large amount of evidence proving the truth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision:
I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about the fault with the cars battery.
I dismiss the other parts of this complaint without consideration of their merits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman