DRN-3855102
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly by allowing her account to 
become overdrawn up to its limit despite not having any money coming into the account. 
She believes the overdraft charges are unjustified and wants TSB to compensate her to 
assist her in improving her financial position. 
 
What happened
Mrs S held a current account with TSB with a £3,000 overdraft limit. At some time in 2017 
Mrs S says she stopped using this account instead using a joint account with her husband 
also held with TSB. 
Around two years later when applying for a mortgage Mrs S was told that her current 
account was nearly at its overdraft limit. The bank statements for this account show that 
while money stopped coming into the account, direct debits, faster payments, debit card 
transactions and cash withdrawals continued and that TSB charged for use of the overdraft 
facility. 
Mrs S says that at times she must have mistakenly used the wrong debit card and that she 
had no idea the account was so heavily overdrawn. Mrs S is unhappy that TSB allowed her 
to spend close to her £3,000 overdraft limit when no payments had been made into the 
account for over a year. 
TSB says Mrs S had access to online statements and that the charges applied to her 
account are correct and in-line with the terms and conditions of the account. However 
following Mrs S bringing her complaint to this service TSB agreed to refund charges and 
interest amounting to £681.56 for the period October 2017 to December 2019 when she 
became aware she was using the wrong card.
Mrs S doesnt want to accept this offer, she wants to be compensated more and has asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what TSB has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have and we may award modest compensation.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unmanageable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unmanageable. 
And in this case TSB has already agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges for the 
period Mrs S was unaware she was using the wrong debit card and was no longer receiving 
payments into her account or paying down her overdraft. This is in-line with what Id expect if 
Id found it had done something wrong. And in this case I do think TSB did something wrong. 
It allowed Mrs S to continue to spend up to the top of her not insignificant limit of £3,000 
despite not having any money coming into the account for over a year. 
I understand Mrs S wants to be compensated more. But Mrs S had the use and benefit of 
the overdraft and I dont see why she shouldnt pay this back. Ultimately, Mrs K is 
responsible for managing her own account and making sure she has sufficient funds in it to 
settle payments leaving her account. And the reason she found herself near her overdraft 
limit is because she failed to do this. 
So bearing all this in mind Im satisfied that what TSB has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mrs S to decide whether she 
wishes to accept TSBs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what TSB UK Bank Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman