DRN-3969505
The complaint
Mr W complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) blocked his account, and sent the money held in it to 
another account which he did not authorise before closing it.  
What happened
Revolut carried out a review of Mr Ws account in March 2021, by doing so it placed a block 
on the account. 
Mr W was due to fly abroad shortly after this and says he needed the money for his travels. 
Mr W sent messages to Revolt on its banking app on a regular basis enquiring about the 
block and when he could get his money back. 
On 21 April 2021, Revoluts agent messaged Mr W on its online chat service. The agent 
explained Revolut had taken the decision to close his account and amongst other things, he 
could now send money held in his account to an external one.   
On the same day around £1,550 was transferred from Mr Ws account to another account 
with his name as the beneficiary.  
Mr W disputes sending this payment himself. He says Revolut processed the payment, but it 
wasnt to one of his accounts. Revolut say Mr W made this transfer himself. Unhappy with 
what happened Mr W complained. 
Revolut said it had closed Mr Ws account in line with its terms of account. And that Mr Ws 
closing balance was returned to his external bank account. As Mr W remained unhappy, he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Whilst Mr Ws complaint was waiting to be allocated for investigation, Revolut made him an 
offer of £20 to resolve the matter. Mr W did not agree. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Ws complaint. In summary, they found: 
- Revoluts decision to close Mr Ws account wasnt unfair nor did it cause any undue 
delay 
- Evidence from Revolut showed Mr W had set up the external bank account as a 
beneficiary in May 2020, with his first and second name as the beneficiary. A 
payment of £150 was also made to that account - which shows he was aware of it 
- Revoluts evidence shows Mr W used the same details to transfer funds from his 
Revolut account when it was being closed 
- Revolut informed Mr W on 21 April 2021 that he could withdraw his balance within 60 
days in its online app chat function at 10:18a.m.  Mr W responded a minute later 
saying he no longer wanted to continue banking with Revolut anyway. The same 
mobile device was used when sending messages to Revolut  and theres no 
evidence of another device being used
As Mr W didnt agree with what our Investigator said, his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know he feels strongly about 
this, and undoubtedly my decision will disappoint him  so Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at the information Revolut have given me, Im satisfied it acted in line with the 
obligations it must follow by restricting the account. Im also satisfied that Revolut didnt 
cause any undue delay throughout its review. 
Id also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence 
from regulated businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Revolut has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential. Im also aware 
of no obligation under which Revolut, or I, are under to disclose this.
Around five or six weeks after restricting Mr Ws account, Revolut decided to close it and 
allowed Mr W to carry out some, albeit limited, functionality on the account. Mr W was given 
60 days to withdraw funds from the account before it was closed. 
Having reviewed the terms of the accounts, Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly and reasonably 
by taking the actions it did to close the account in the way it did. 
This brings me onto the crux of Mr Ws complaint. That is he disputes having sent the 
closing balance himself to the third-party bank account already set-up as a beneficiary on his 
account. 
Mr W says he doesnt hold an account with this other bank. Ive checked with that bank, and 
Im satisfied the account wasnt Mr Ws. I have told Mr W about this, and the nature of the 
business that account is for. Mr W doesnt recall what it is, and why he wouldve have sent a 
£150 payment to it some ten months prior. 
Generally, Revolut can hold Mr W liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not, he made or authorised it himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ws online banking was accessed, 
and the payment made after a biometric authentication was carried out. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Revolut 
to hold Mr W liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not Mr W consented to the transaction of around £1,550. In other words, I need to 
determine, based on the evidence available, if it was most likely Mr W sent the closing 
balance himself or not. 
Mr W has told me which model and brand of mobile phone he had at the time. Ive looked closely through all Revoluts technical information relating to the access to the banking app. 
Having done so, Im satisfied the same mobile phone was used from January 2021 up until 
the account was closed in April 2021. 
This data also shows this phone was used to log in throughout this period. It also shows 
Revoluts security protocols relating to identification of Mr W were passed. This is also true 
just a minute or so before the transaction was made from the app on 21 April 2021. 
Mr W says nobody else had access to his phone, knew the password and he didnt write it 
down anywhere. The payment was made in the UK, and Mr W had returned from his travels 
by then too. 
So, as it stands, it appears the same phone Mr W used to send messages to Revolut whilst 
his account was restricted, was the same one that was used to make the transfer of the 
closing balance. Mr W has also explained that there was no real point at which his phones 
security couldve been compromised. 
Revoluts records show the transaction was made at 10:20a.m. This is within a minute of 
Mr Ws message on Revoluts app chat function that he wasnt going to continue with the 
account after being told the funds can now be transferred out. 
So, after weighing everything up, Im persuaded on balance, it was most likely Mr W that 
authorised the transfer of his closing balance to an account already set-up as beneficiary on 
his Revolut app. As I think he most likely authorised this payment, Revolut do not have to 
refund it. 
As I said earlier, I know Mr W feels strongly about his complaint, but I must reach my 
decision on the evidence available  and that is what I have done here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman