DRN-3047094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about TSB Bank plcs actions in relation to a scam in which they lost 
almost £20,000.
What happened
Whilst researching Bitcoin investments, Mr M found an advert for a company Ill refer to as 
M. He looked into the company and was reassured they were legitimate. He spoke to a 
broker from M, who talked him through the process. He was told the expected investment 
return was 37-40%, and there was a guaranteed minimum return of 8%.
In October 2019, after paying a deposit to M using a credit card, Mr and Mrs B transferred 
£7,255 from their TSB joint current account to a cryptocurrency exchange platform (C) to 
purchase Bitcoin. Mr B then transferred this to a cryptocurrency wallet with another company 
(E). From there, he says he was able to trade through his account with M. Unfortunately, this 
was a scam. It seems that the account with M, showing that the funds had been invested 
and were increasing in value, wasnt showing genuine activity.
Mr and Mrs B transferred more money to M, via their TSB account, in the same way. In 
November 2019, they made three further transfers (again through C and E) totalling over 
£12,000. Throughout this period, they were in regular contact with M and their account 
appeared to show they were making a significant profit.
They realised something was wrong in December 2019, when they tried to make a 
withdrawal but struggled to get a response. Mr B was then told theyd have to pay 
corporation tax before withdrawingwhich he knew wasnt rightand encouraged to invest 
more. When he couldnt get any money back from M, he realised it was a scam and reported 
this to TSB and the police. TSB has a fraud guarantee policy, which he thought would 
cover the loss. But TSB said the guarantee didnt apply here as the transfer had gone to C, a 
legitimate firm with whom Mr B held an account.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
recommended that TSB should cover their loss. He thought it should have identified the risk 
this was a scam due to the unusual activity on their account. And that appropriate 
intervention would likely have prevented the loss.
I issued my provisional decision earlier in September 2021, explaining why I wasnt minded 
to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my provisional findings below: 
Ive thought carefully about whether its fair and reasonable to hold TSB responsible 
for Mr and Mrs Bs loss. I understand they transferred the funds from their TSB 
account to an account Mr B held with C  a regulated firm with whom hes confirmed 
hes also used for legitimate investing. He then transferred the Bitcoin he bought from 
C to E  who again arent alleged to be a fraudulent firm. And it was from there that 
he transferred the money onto the fraudsters.
The key question here is  whats the actual cause of Mr and Mrs Bs loss? In my 
view, there was a new, intervening act between the transfers from TSB to C (or 
TSBs alleged failure to intervene in those transfers) which was the cause of the loss. 
That was the onward transfers to the fraudsters. Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
suffered this loss had it not been for the later transfers on from the account Mr B held 
with C, and the subsequent transfers on to the fraudsters. Im satisfied that was the 
actual cause of their loss.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B. Based on what Ive been told 
about how the scam unfolded, I dont hold them at fault for what happened. But for 
the reasons set out above, I also dont think TSBs actions caused their loss. So I 
dont consider it fair and reasonable to direct TSB to take responsibility for this and 
reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the money they lost to the fraudsters.
I invited both sides to submit any further comments or evidence. TSB has confirmed that it 
has nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs B have raised some further points, which Ive 
summarised below:  
Having checked, they want to confirm that they didnt use C for other legitimate 
investing  they used another platform.
They think their situation is covered by TSBs fraud refund guarantee, as they were 
innocent victims of a sophisticated scam.
TSB should have monitored unusual activity, and this should have flagged their 
transactions. They say it would have made them think twice if it had done so. They 
also point out that TSB is no longer allowing transactions to cryptocurrency 
exchanges, and question whether this is an acknowledgement that it was failing to 
protect its customers interests. 
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, I can proceed to issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including carefully considering the responses to my provisional decision, 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my provisional findings above, so Ill 
just focus below on responding to the points Mr and Mrs B have raised.  
Mr and Mrs B say they only used C in connection with this scam. Regardless, the transfers 
from TSB still went to a legitimate firm with whom Mr B held an account. So this doesnt 
affect my findings. Id also point out that they received a credit of over £1,800 from C in 
January 2020. This suggests they retrieved or retained some of the funds transferred to C  
which supports that it was the transfers from C (rather than from TSB to C) which caused the 
fraudulent loss to occur. It also reduces their loss from the scam.
Ive also reviewed TSBs fraud refund guarantee. It says (with my emphasis):
If you are clearly an innocent victim of fraud on your TSB account, we will refund 
the money you lost from your account.  As explained in my provisional findings, the fraud didnt occur from Mr and Mrs Bs account. 
Thats why I dont consider it fair and reasonable to hold TSB liable for the loss. It follows 
that I dont think it has applied its policy unfairly here. It was the onward transfers, not the 
transfers from the TSB account, that caused the loss. So Im not persuaded the transfers are 
reasonably covered by the guarantee.
Mr and Mrs B have highlighted that TSB no longer allows transfers to cryptocurrency 
exchanges. But what Im considering is what was expected of TSB at the time. I cant 
retrospectively apply later expectations or policies. At the time of the transfers, it wasnt 
TSBs policy to block these types of payments. Thats a commercial decision it made later 
on. So this doesnt affect my findings. 
 
Whilst I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs argument about whether TSB should have intervened, 
Ive explained in my provisional findings why I dont consider its alleged failure to intervene 
to be the cause of their loss. This is because there was a new intervening act  namely, 
transferring the funds on. In broad terms, our services role is to redress consumers for 
reasonably foreseeable losses theyve suffered which were caused by businesses errors. 
As Ive found TSBs alleged wrongdoing wasnt the actual cause of Mr and Mrs Bs loss, I 
cant fairly direct it to cover this.
I understand how difficult this issue has been for Mr and Mrs B  who have clearly fallen 
victim to a cruel and sophisticated scam. But Im not persuaded that its fair to hold TSB 
liable for their loss. It follows that I wont be directing it to reimburse them for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman