DRN-3933551
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard responded to 
a claim she made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Throughout her complaint, Mrs A has been represented by a family member. But for ease, Ill 
just refer to Mrs A.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs A ordered some wooden roof trusses from a timber merchant. To 
pay for the trusses, Mrs A used her Barclaycard credit card. The merchant delivered the 
timber for the trusses in early 2021 and Mrs As builder started to build the roof.
Once the roof trusses were in place, Mrs A says her builder noticed that they were short of 
timber to complete the roof. So, Mrs A contacted the merchant with her concerns. The 
merchant told Mrs A they had delivered the timbers that she had ordered. However, they 
acknowledged that some of timber may have been a slightly different size.
Although the merchant didnt agree with Mrs A, they offered to provide some further timber 
free of charge as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs A didnt accept this and said the offer was less 
than she had ordered and paid for. Mrs A told the merchant that parts of the roof were water 
damaged because the roof couldnt be competed as planned. She also said she had to pay 
her roofing contractor, for the days where she was waiting for a different supplier to deliver 
more timber to finish the work.
At the end of January 2021, Mrs A raised a Section 75 claim with Barclaycard. She said the 
merchant had breached the contract she had with them for the timber. After taking the 
details of the claim, Barclaycard wrote to Mrs A and said they couldnt progress things 
further. They said it was Mrs As husband that had ordered the timber from the merchant, 
which meant Mrs A didnt have a contract in place for them to consider.
Mrs A didnt accept this this brought a complaint to us about Barclaycards handling of her 
Section 75 claim. One of our investigators looked into Mrs As case and found that 
Barclaycard should have considered her claim, as the timber was to be used for the family 
home she was renovating with her husband. 
However, the investigator also found that there wasnt any evidence to show that the delivery 
of the timber was short of what Mrs A had ordered. So, he said Barclaycard didnt have to 
take any steps to settle the complaint.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said the merchant had sent her an email to say they had made a 
mistake. Mrs A also provided us with the invoices for the repair to the roof and the 
replacement timber, from the other supplier.
The investigator wasnt convinced that the merchant had said they had made an error with 
Mrs As order and didnt change his conclusions. So, Mrs As complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
This case is about a payment Mrs A made using her Barclaycard credit card, which is a 
regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The relevant piece of legislation is Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This 
provides protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. Under Section 
75, subject to certain criteria, consumers who use a credit card to pay for goods and 
services, have an equal claim against the credit card provider, for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
In Mrs As case, she says Section 75 means she has an equal claim against Barclaycard, 
because the merchant didnt give all the timber she had paid for. So, with what Ive said in 
mind, I agree that Mrs A was able to ask Barclaycard to consider if she has a claim under 
Section 75.
One of the qualifying conditions to bring a successful claim under Section 75 is that there 
must be a very particular relationship in place between Mrs A, Barclaycard and the supplier. 
This relationship is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. 
For this relationship to exist, Mrs A would need to be the debtor, Barclaycard the creditor 
and the timber merchant needs to be the supplier. However, on the face of it this relationship 
is not in place because it was Mrs As husband, not Mrs A who contracted with supplier. I 
base this on the suppliers quote and invoice for the supply of the goods. 
I note that Mrs A didnt have a contract with the supplier, or at least not one I have seen. 
Therefore the invoice and the quote document are the only contractual documents Ive got. 
At first glance, it looks like Mrs As husband is the sole debtor here as he appears to be the 
sole contracting party with the supplier based on the invoice and the quote. 
That said, Im satisfied the realities probably are, that Mrs A and her husband are living 
together in their marital home. I think its likely they share expenses in some way which suits 
them and that one operates as the agent for the other, for the purposes of making contracts 
in relation to their joint home. 
On that basis I am satisfied that Mrs A was a contracting party in relation to the contract with 
the supplier. It follows that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in this 
instance for the purposes of a claim under Section 75.
The order and payment for the timber
Mrs A has provided details of the quote given to her by the timber merchant in December 
2020. The quote itemises every length of timber and the other materials Mrs A had asked 
the merchant for. The cost on Mrs As quote from the merchant is £21,060.73. Mrs A has 
also provided an invoice from the merchant dated 14 January 2021, which was generated 
after the order had been delivered. The total cost on the invoice is £17,172.76 and it doesnt 
contain a breakdown of the amount of timbers which make up the order.
I can see from the statements for Mrs As credit card that she paid the merchant £10,178.82 
before the order was delivered. Barclaycard also say there was a separate transaction of £9,000 to the merchant in December 2020.
Having looked closely at all the documents related to the order with the timber merchant, I 
think there are inconsistencies with the cost of the order. On one hand the quote is for 
significantly more than was paid to the timber merchant. And on the other hand, the invoice 
from the merchant after delivery doesnt match with either amount.
On balance, I dont think the quote provided by Mrs A shows what she was expecting to be 
delivered. It may be that Mrs A changed the order after the quote, or that the merchant 
provided a discount that wasnt documented. 
Whatever has happened though, I dont think the evidence available shows the amount of 
timbers Mrs A had ordered from the merchant. So, Ive considered what happened after the 
delivery, to decide if Barclaycard have treated Mrs As section 75 claim fairly.
The installation of the timber
Mrs A didnt take the delivery of the timber herself. Instead, her roofing contractor started to 
assemble the roof trusses, after the merchant had delivered the timber to the site. I cannot 
see that the roofing contractor carried out an inventory of what the merchant had delivered, 
or that they checked everything on the order had been provided. 
We do have evidence from the roofing contractor in that they took a video of the assembled 
roof trusses and the water damage caused when the roof wasnt completed as Mrs A had 
expected. The contractor points to gaps where other timbers should be and Mrs A says this 
was because of a shortage in the initial order.
It was around this time that Mrs A contacted the merchant to tell them what had happened. I 
can see from the merchants emails to Mrs A that they disagreed that the order was missing 
any timbers. The merchant also told Mrs A they may have sent a slightly wrong size for 
some of the items, but there was enough overall, to complete the design for the roof.
In all the circumstances, I dont think the evidence shows that the merchant provided less 
timber than Mrs A had ordered. I think theres a discrepancy in what was ordered in the first 
place and theres no record of exactly what was delivered, before the roofing contractor 
started work on assembling the roof.
I acknowledge that the merchant offered to send a nominal amount of timber to Mrs A as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mrs A had previously mentioned how much money she had spent with 
the merchant, to try and increase that offer. And it seems the merchant was prepared to 
consider that when they made the offer. But, on balance I dont think the merchant accepted 
that they had made a mistake with the amount of timber ordered. 
Overall, I dont think what Ive seen around the delivery, installation and the offer from the 
merchant, shows the merchant breached the contract they had with Mrs A. So, Ive 
considered what Mrs A did when she chose not to accept the merchants offer.
The invoices for the additional timber provided by Mrs A
Mrs A says that she contacted a different supplier to get the remaining items to finish the 
assembly of the roof. Mrs A has sent various invoices to us, which she says show where the 
timber merchant hadnt delivered what she had ordered.
Ive carefully considered the invoices Mrs A has provided. I can see Mrs A bought additional 
timbers and other building materials. She says the other materials were needed to repair the water damage caused by the mistake made by the timber merchant. 
I accept that Mrs A bought items from another supplier to help with the renovation work she 
was carrying out on her house. And I acknowledge that the work was extensive, given what 
Barclaycard have said and that Mrs A was building a brand new roof.
But, I can also see that the main invoice for the additional timber Mrs A says she bought 
doesnt contain sufficient information to see what was needed. So, I dont think the invoice 
adds weight to Mrs As argument that the delivery from the timber merchant was incorrect.
Mrs A has also provided screen shots from text messages with her roofing contractor. 
Although I can see where the roofing contractor gave Mrs A estimates of the cost of labour, I 
think these were informal conversations, rather than evidence of losses related to the 
problems with the delivery of the timbers.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded the invoices Mrs A has provided show that the 
timber merchant didnt fulfil the order she placed with them in December 2020.
Summary
Having considered everything, on balance I dont think the evidence shows where the 
merchant breached their contract with Mrs A for the supply of the timber. 
Even though Barclaycard turned Mrs As Section 75 claim aside for different reasons, overall 
I think they have treated Mrs A fairly. So, I dont think Barclaycard need to take steps to pay 
Mrs A for the costs she has told us about.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman