DRN-3401445
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy ta ut in
2007. Ms S says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
Through her representative, Ms S complained to RBS that it had mis-sold PPI to her. RBS 
didnt uphold the complaint, although it did identify a number of areas in which further 
information may have been helpful to the complaint. I cannot see that further information 
was ever provided to RBS. Instead, Ms S complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint, and they thought RBSs offer to 
refund some of the cost of the PPI was fair. RBS made this offer because it failed to tell 
Ms S about a high level of commission she paid as part of her PPI premiums. Through her 
representative, Ms S didnt agree with that view.
Ms S told us that she had a number of pre-existing medical conditions at the point of sale. 
Our adjudicator then said the complaint should be upheld. RBS did that view.
The matter was then passed to me to make a final decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order 
to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; a
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive 
provisionally decided RBS should have disclosed the commission it received - but 
that RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below.
Was PPI mis-sold?
In summary, my provisional reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this 
complaint are set out below.
The parties are in agreement that the PPI was sold to Ms S during a meeting. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats most 
likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Ms S remembers about it. And Ive 
also considered the documentary evidence thats available from the time.
Looking at the application form, I can see that in order for PPI to be added to the 
account, Ms S had to tick a box and then sign to confirm her selection. Ms S had 
ticked and signed to indicate she wanted cover. I think it would have been clear to 
Ms S that if she didnt want PPI, she could have just left the relevant section blank.
RBS didnt recommend the cover to Ms S. So it didnt need to check whether it was 
suitable for her. But it did need to give her enough information about the policy so 
she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs.
I accept its possible that RBS didnt tell Ms S everything it should have done about 
the PPI. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to 
consider whether Ms S would have acted differently if RBS had told her everything 
it should have done.
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of her credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was off sick or if she lost her 
job. Each claim could have lasted for a maximum of 12 months.
Ms S told us that she wasnt working at the point of sale. But looking at the 
application form, it looks as though she was employed. Ms S indicated she was 
working part-time, but from looking at the salary she declared at the time, it seems 
most likely to me that Ms S would have been working for more than 16 hours per 
week. However, if I am wrong on that point, I would strongly urge Ms S and/or her 
representative to clarify the hours she worked in response to this provisional 
decision.
I can see that RBS also asked Ms S to clarify whether, in light of her medical 
conditions, she was actually attending work when the cover was sold. It appears 
that no reply was received to that information request. Again, I strongly encourage 
Ms S and her representative to engage with this point in the response to this 
decision. However, as things stand, the evidence before me does not suggest Ms S 
was absent from work.
I can see that our adjudicator asked Ms S for some further information about her sick 
pay arrangements with her employer, but no response was received. I think its likely 
that Ms S would have had some sick pay entitlement from work. But I think its likely 
that the PPI would have lasted for longer than that sick pay and the additional means 
Ms S told us about. So in those circumstances, I can see how the PPI policy could 
have been helpful. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions would have affected Ms 
Ss ability to claim. As I said above, Ms S told us about a number of medical conditions she had at the 
point of sale. RBS told us that pre-existing medical conditions were not excluded 
from its PPI policy at this time.
I have considered the policy document at some length. It states that Ms S would be 
deemed to be off sick if she was off work during a period when [she was] unable to 
carry out the duties of [her] Normal Occupation due to accident or sickness as 
certified by a Doctor, which starts during the Period of Cover
Upon considering that policy document, it was unclear to me as to whether it was 
the period of sickness or the medical condition itself that was required to start during 
the period of cover so as to exclude a claim. But upon considering the further 
representations from RBS and its further enquiries of the insurer, I am provisionally 
satisfied that Ms Ss pre-existing medical conditions would not have been excluded 
from a claim.
The representative made a number of submissions about what they perceived to be 
additional limitations and exclusions around back and mental health conditions. 
Having considered the policy document at some length, I am provisionally satisfied 
that there were no additional requirements to claim for either condition.
Overall, I consider that Ms S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the point of 
sale. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she 
was getting. And in those circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators 
rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover 
coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant RBS 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. 
But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold the mis- sale element of this complaint.
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the Consumer on would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.was there an unfair relationship?
RBS didnt tell Ms S about the high levels of commission and profit share she 
paid in this case. So taking into account:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the 
failure to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the 
cost of the policy; and
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between RBS and Ms S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because RBS didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case
I dont think RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms S because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances 
to remedy the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Ms S should get back all the money she paid for the 
policy because: RBS failed to tell Ms S about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was 
submitted that this things meant the policy was poor value I should find that Ms S 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. 
It was further submitted that Ms S should receive a refund of all the premiums 
paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court 
concluded that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about 
whether the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the 
PPI policy had the commission been disclosed;a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to 
remedy the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it 
does not follow that a court would automatically order a return of all the 
premiums paid or conclude that a consumer would not have purchased 
the policy had the commission been disclosed;
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate 
to merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing 
rules and guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms 
handling PPI complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed 
commission and any remedy caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, 
my role as an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation in order to remedy the unfairness caused by RBS not disclosing the 
high level of commission before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following:
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts 
paid by the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the 
policys cost, plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by 
the failure to disclose the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is 
an order which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its 
discretion, make under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in 
order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy 
wouldnt have been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of 
commission, for the reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for RBS to 
calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and return some of the 
money Ms S paid for the PPI policy.
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it 
leaves Ms S with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out 
if RBS had done everything it should have done, but with lower commission and 
profit share levels.
So I consider that RBSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As RBS has already paid Ms S compensation on this basis, I dont provisionally 
consider it should do anything further.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before 25 March 2022. No response was received from either party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So for the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale 
element of the complaint. I am satisfied that RBSs offer to pay an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share Ms S paid that was in excess of 50% of the policy cost is a fair 
way to settle the complaint. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I 
have set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any 
award for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Ms S an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) As The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on this 
basis, I do not require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman