DRN-3212480
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fairly refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to AXA also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a multi trip travel insurance policy which is provided as part of a package 
with their bank account, underwritten by AXA. In November 2019, Mr and Mrs L upgraded 
the policy to include cover for their pre-existing medical conditions. This upgrade 
commenced on 15 December 2019 and provided cover for one year. And the upgrade also 
provided them with a waiver of the policy excesses usually applicable with this cover. They 
paid £81.58 for this additional cover. 
Mr and Mrs L booked a trip abroad, departing on 27 May 2020 but unfortunately due to the 
global pandemic, the trip was cancelled. 
In early December 2020, Mr and Mrs L contacted AXA as the upgrade to their policy was 
due for renewal in six days time. They asked about obtaining a refund for the previous 
years upgrade as their trip had been cancelled. AXA informed Mr and Mrs L that they were 
not entitled to a policy refund under the policy terms and conditions but, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it could cancel the policy upgrade from that point and issue a pro-rata refund for the 
remainder of the upgrade year. This refund offer was calculated to £1.34.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with this offer. They said AXA should have contacted its 
customers to let them know they could obtain a refund. Mr and Mrs L said they took out the 
upgrade to cover them for this trip and had not used the insurance cover for the year  so 
they should receive a higher refund. So, they complained to AXA and then brought the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that the refund offer made was fair and 
reasonable. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
If You have purchased an Upgrade and within 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade 
schedule, You find that it does not meet Your requirements You may cancel Your 
Upgrade by returning the Upgrade schedule to Us. We will refund any premium You 
have paid for Upgrades or to obtain cover for Medical Conditions in full provided 
You have not travelled.
For cancellations occurring after 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule no 
refund of premium will be made.
The phone call during which the cancellation of the upgraded policy was discussed took 
place outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under the relevant 
industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined above, the 
contract of insurance says that AXA doesnt have to pay any refund of a policyholders 
premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr and Mrs Ls cooling-off 
period ended on 27 December 2019. But the first contact about this issue wasnt until early 
December 2020. Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs L purchased, 
Im satisfied they arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums.
Having said that, I do understand that Mr and Mrs Ls need for this policy changed due to 
circumstances out of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask AXA to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of the 
policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding Covid-
19. 
Mr and Mrs L think they should receive a higher refund of the premiums as they say they 
havent used the insurance cover. But Mr and Mrs L did have insurance from 15 December 
2019 for a year, for travelling on any number of trips they may have chosen to take. 
Mr and Mrs L have said they always contacted AXA prior to each trip  so AXA would have 
known they had no other trips. I appreciate their viewpoint. But once they had declared their 
pre-existing conditions, they were under no obligation to contact AXA each time and so it 
had no way of knowing how many trips Mr and Mrs L had planned to take or in fact had 
taken during that time. There may have been a large number of trips  or none. But, 
regardless of the number of trips taken, AXA was covering the risk of a claim during the time 
the policy was in force. 
The policy upgrade enabled them to have cover for any holidays Mr and Mrs L may have 
booked and needed to cancel, because of specific events in the policy, such as if either of 
them had fallen ill due to their pre-existing conditions. Or if they had been able to travel, as 
the travel restrictions were relaxed during the period of this upgraded policy, AXA would 
have been on risk for any claims they may have made for events that occurred during those 
trips.
As our investigator has said, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ls cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair 
for AXA to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. 
But, it was only after Mr and Mrs L enquired about a refund of the policy in December 2020 
that AXA knew it would no longer be bearing any risk under that insurance policy year for 
upcoming holidays  it was at this point AXA was advised that the specific holiday had been 
cancelled, and there wasnt any claim being made for the cancellation. It was also only at 
this point that AXA would have known there wasnt a risk of any other holidays being 
cancelled for any other reason or any possibility of Mr and Mrs L making a claim whilst they were away on holiday. So, AXA no longer carried any risk of a successful claim being made. 
Once a policy is cancelled, AXA wouldnt be providing cancellation cover for any other 
holidays Mr and Mrs L might have had booked, or for any travelling that Mr and Mrs L might 
have done, whether abroad or in the UK. So, I do think it is fair for AXA to be offering a 
refund.
An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. And Im 
satisfied that AXA hasnt treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly or any differently to other customers 
in similar circumstances.  
I say this because AXA has offered to reimburse the unused proportion of the upgrade 
premium Mr and Mrs L has paid, based on when it became aware of their wish to cancel the 
cover and receive a refund. This is because it says the premiums paid for the travel 
insurance upgrade is split equally over the year period. The pro-rata refund offered is 
equivalent to six days unused cover from the date Mr and Mrs L contacted AXA until the end 
date of the insurance period, which was 14 December 2020. 
Mr and Mrs L have said that restrictions on travel were in place from March 2020 and so the 
premium refund should be taken back to that point. But I dont agree. Until the request for 
the policy upgrade to be cancelled and refunded, AXA was covering the risk of a claim 
occurring. As I mentioned previously, travel was possible to some countries during the 
insurance period of this policy. And there could have been any number of claims, for various 
risks, given the way annual multi-trip policies work. The premiums charged to Mr and Mrs L 
reflected this. So, Im satisfied that AXAs refund offer is fair and reasonable.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ls comments that AXA should have been proactively letting its 
customers know that it was prepared to offer a refund of premiums. And whilst I can 
appreciate their strength of feeling on this matter, I dont think it would have been practical or 
even commercially viable for AXA to do this. And AXA was under no obligation to provide 
this service. In fact, what it has agreed to offer is over and above what it is required to do as 
determined by the policy and by the industry rules and guidelines. So, Im not of the opinion 
it needed to do more.
Having considered the unique and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid 19 outbreak, I 
think the offer which AXA has made to provide a pro-rata refund representing the remaining 
six unused days of cover is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking 
AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman