DRN-3533934
The complaint
Mr H holds a Curtis Banks Limited (CBL) Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP); he self 
manages the SIPPs investments and they are held with a third-party firm; he disputes CBLs 
instruction (in August 2021) to the third-party to release and remit funds from some of the 
investments in order to cover outstanding SIPP fees for the 2021/2022 year; he also 
disputes CBLs increase of the SIPP fees (effective from February 2021); he seeks a refund 
of the fees he disputes and compensation for the poor service he says he received from CBL 
(especially, or including, with regards to online access to his SIPP account); he also wishes 
to transfer his SIPP away from CBL and he wants CBL to waive its transfer out fee.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld, 
but not to the extent that Mr H has claimed. The investigator mainly found as follows:
CBL wrote to Mr H on 10 December 2020, giving notice of the fee increase due to 
take effect from February 2021. The notice gave him until 14 March 2021 to transfer 
his SIPP to a new provider, with a waiver of CBLs transfer out fee, if he was 
unhappy with the increase. The notice was correctly address and there is no 
evidence to show that it was not sent to Mr H.
[Mr H says he did not receive this notice in the post, that the use of post conflicted 
with CBLs routine use of email correspondence, that no email notice of the fee 
increase was sent to him, that it is unreasonable for him to be faced with the 
consequences of CBL not sending the notice or for it being lost in transit, that there is 
also evidence that it was wrongly addressed (the copy from CBLs records wrongly 
describes the town/locality of residence), so the notice was not validly issued, the fee 
increase applied to his account was/is equally invalid and, for all these reasons, the 
increased fees should be refunded and the transfer fee waiver should be extended to 
cover his present wish to transfer his SIPP. The investigators view was that the 
address as stated in the notice leads, in an online search, to Mr Hs residence and 
that the same applies to a royal mail search on the postcode in the notice, so the 
notice was correctly addressed.]
CBLs correspondence of 10 December 2020 satisfied its obligation to give 
appropriate notice to Mr H about the fee increase in February 2021. It did nothing 
wrong in this respect and Mr Hs complaint should not be upheld in this respect.
On 19 August 2021 Mr H received CBLs email about an outstanding invoice and 
SIPP fee of £492 that was due for payment. The email said he had 30 days, from 
then, to make the payment and that if no payment was made CBL would instruct the 
release of funds from the SIPPs investments to cover the fees (and to maintain the 
required minimum of £1,000 cash in the SIPP bank account). It was entitled to do this 
under its Order of Disposal (OD) policy. By 2 September, and for this purpose, CBL 
had instructed and received funds (totalling £1,462.73) released from the SIPPs 
investments. On 16 September 2021 Mr H responded to CBLs email, he said he 
wanted to transfer his SIPP away from CBL because the fee increase was applied 
without his knowledge, so no withdrawal of funds from the SIPPs investments should 
be made whilst he arranged the transfer. He complained on 3 October 2021 having 
received no reply from CBL.
The OD policy refers to the 30 days notice provision, where cash (and the minimum 
required in the SIPP bank account) is outstanding and needed for liabilities in the 
SIPP. This covers the 30 days notice given in CBLs email of 19 August. However, 
CBL acted to release funds from the SIPPs investments before the notice period 
ended. The period ended on 18 September, yet CBL had already instructed and 
received the released funds on 2 September. CBL was wrong in this respect. Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld in this respect.
Despite Mr Hs email of 16 September, he provided no instruction on how he 
intended to make the outstanding payment. As such, it is likely CBL would have 
instructed the release of funds from the SIPPs investments on or after the notice 
expiration on 18 September. Nevertheless, this means the SIPPs investments could 
have suffered a financial loss from the funds being released earlier than they would 
have been released, so CBL should calculate this and compensate Mr H for any such 
loss.
CBL disagreed with the partial upholding of the complaint. It argued that the initial invoice for 
outstanding fees was sent to Mr H on 1 August, so the relevant 30 days notice period ran 
from then and had expired before it instructed and received the funds released from the 
SIPPs investments. The investigator disagreed and referred to evidence that the notice 
period expressly ran from CBLs notice email of 19 August. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators rejection of the first part of his complaint and he asked 
for a review. His position is still based on his arguments about the December 2020 notice. 
He made submissions for the ombudsmans attention which included the same arguments 
and which commented on how, unlike the other firms he has dealings with, CBL does not 
update/verify accuracy of his personal details and does not send email notifications of 
important information. He says he is also unhappy that his email to CBL of 16 September 
remains largely unanswered. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions for the SIPP provide that they can be amended, including terms 
about costs increases, by written notice to the SIPP holder. Under these provisions, CBL 
was/is required to provide at least 30 days written notice. If the relevant change has a 
significant unfavourable effect on the SIPP holder  and if the SIPP holder does not accept 
the change  they also says CBL will waive its transfer out fee where it receives a discharge 
form from the SIPP holder within three months of the notice of amendment. 
In Mr Hs case, CBLs notice of 10 December 2020 was issued around a month and a half 
before the fee increase became effective, so it gave more written notice than the minimum 
30 days. It also gave just over three months, between 10 December 2020 and 14 March 
2021, for those who disagreed with the increase to transfer out with the transfer fee waiver. 
This complied with the SIPPs terms about such a waiver being triggered where a change is 
unfavourable to the holder and s/he expresses a wish to transfer out.Overall, on balance and for the reasons summarised above, CBL did nothing wrong in terms 
of the fee increase notice that it issued  the fee increase, in itself, was also within its 
reasonable commercial discretion and I have not seen evidence that it went beyond that. 
The next consideration is the effects of the increase and of the notice on Mr H. His key 
arguments on these issues are that he did not receive the notice, it was wrongly addressed 
(which, he says, is probably why he did not receive it), CBL should have coupled any posted 
notice with email notice and, as such, the fee increase did not validly apply to his SIPP. He 
also says the transfer fee waiver period should be extended to the present, or should be 
applied presently, for him.
The relevant requirement was that CBL give notice to Mr H. Even if it usually engaged in 
email correspondence with him, there is no available evidence that says it was wrong to 
send him notice by post. Indeed, the terms for the SIPP permitted postal correspondence. I 
also have not seen evidence that Mr H applied settings to the SIPP that stipulated email only 
correspondence, that asked for duplicate email correspondence of postal notices or 
evidence that he gave CBL prior instructions to provide either of these at the time. 
The address used by CBL in the 10 December 2020 notice was Mr Hs home address. His 
dispute relates only to the use, within the address, of the word North to describe the 
locality. He says the word North does not exist in the towns name. Every other part of the 
name and address on the letter, including the post code, is not disputed and is accurate. As 
the investigator pointed out, application of the post code to Royal Mails post code finder 
search leads to Mr Hs address. Overall, I am satisfied that the notice was correctly 
addressed and sent to Mr H on the above date. That notice was deemed issued upon being 
sent. CBL cannot reasonably be held responsible for transit of the letter, which was outside 
its control. Whilst I acknowledge that Mr H says he did not receive it, the fair conclusion to 
draw remains that the notice was issued to him on 10 December 2020, was valid and was 
effective from that date.
As the notice was valid and was effective from the above date, the transfer fee waiver 
offered within it was available only for the specified limited period, which has since ended. In 
the absence of a wrongdoing by CBL in this aspect of the case, I do not find a basis on 
which it is obliged to extend the waiver period for Mr H or to offer a fresh waiver to him.
I do not propose to speak for CBL in response to Mr Hs point about his email of 16 
September 2021 being unanswered, and I do not state or suggest a defence on its behalf in 
this respect. However, the sequence of events suggests the emails main contents were 
arguably redundant at the time. The email shared his intention to transfer the SIPP and said 
no funds should be released from the SIPPs investments. If the former was stated in the 
context of the transfer fee waiver period, that had expired months earlier; and with regards to 
the release of funds from the investments, that had been done a fortnight earlier. Of course, 
the email was in time to respond to the notice about releasing funds for the outstanding 
payments and, as I find next, CBL was wrong to act before that notice had ended. The point 
I make about redundancy is that, as a matter of fact, Mr Hs instruction not to release funds 
happened after funds had already been released. 
I agree with the investigators finding on CBLs challenge. Its notice of 19 August 2021 
expressly stated that the 30 days period began from the date of the notice, so it did not begin 
on 1 August and the release of funds that CBL had instructed and received by 2 September 
happened more than two weeks before the notice expired. CBL acted wrongly and 
prematurely in this respect. In the next section, I set out what CBL must do to calculate and 
pay any arising compensation to Mr H because of this wrongdoing.Putting things right
On 2 September 2021, and due to CBLs action/instruction, invested funds in Mr Hs SIPP 
were prematurely released from the relevant investments. Evidence shows that the amount 
released was validly due for the outstanding fees and the cash holding requirement in the 
SIPP, so the issues to consider are the premature timing of the release and whether (or not) 
such a release would have been necessary if the full 30 days notice period had been 
allowed to run (and end).
Mr Hs communication of 16 September 2021 made no mention of a plan to make the 
outstanding payments (fees and cash holding) into the SIPP. It went as far as to say no 
funds should be released from the investments, but not as far as to confirm his plan for the 
outstanding payments. I have not seen evidence, from between this date and 18 September, 
of any such plan or action on his part. As such, I consider it more likely (than not) that no 
payment from him would have been made by 18 September, that the notice would have 
expired on 18 September and that CBL would then have exercised its right to release funds 
from the SIPPs investments for the outstanding payments. On balance, this would probably 
have been instructed on the following date  allowing all of 18 September for the last date for 
compliance with the notice.
In the above context, the period to redress is defined and limited to the time between 2 
September 2021 (when the funds were prematurely released) to 18 September 2021 (when 
the funds would have continued to remain invested, but for the premature release). I order 
CBL to calculate redress as I set out below, and I order Mr H to assist by providing CBL with 
all information relevant to and required for the calculation that CBL does not already have. 
To compensate Mr H fairly, CBL must: 
Calculate the total value, as a matter of fact, of the SIPPs investments on 18 
September 2021  the actual value. 
Calculate the total value that the SIPPs investments would have had on 18 
September 2021 had £1,462.73 not been released from it on 2 September 2021 (and 
had that sum remained invested between both dates)  the fair value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, CBL must pay the difference to Mr H in 
compensation. 
Pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into his pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation cannot 
be paid into his pension plan, pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide calculation of the compensation to Mr H in a clear and simple format. compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mr Hs case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and 
the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020 (it was referred to us in 2021), so the 
applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint on the basis set out above, and I order Curtis Banks Limited to 
calculate and pay him compensation as I have also set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman