DRN-3576669
The complaint
Mr W complains about the support offered to him by BFS Funding Managers Limited trading 
as GC Business Finance (GC) when he experienced financial difficulty during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Mr W is also unhappy with the initial lending.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr W and GC. I wont repeat in great 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In 2017 Mr W took out a personal loan for business purposes for his publishing company. 
The loan was for £25,000 and was to be repaid over 60 months. In March 2020 Mr W 
contacted GC to say that his business was being severely impacted by the COVID-19 
pandemic and associated restrictions at that time. GC agreed a three month payment 
deferral  to cover April, May and June 2020. Two further three month periods of deferral 
were agreed in June and September 2020 - so Mr W had 9 months in total. 
The last agreed deferral period ended in December 2020. Mr W had asked for a further 
payment deferral but GC declined this, explaining that - in line with Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance issued on 31 October 2020, hed already exceeded the maximum 
number of deferral periods allowed. 
Mr W had 9 months of payment deferrals and his next payment was due on 1 January 2021. 
In December 2020 received a call explaining when his next payment was due. On 5 January 
2021 Mr W contacted GC as he was unhappy with being debited for a monthly loan 
repayment. He asked that the money be refunded back to him. GC explained that his bank 
could arrange that, but that this would put his account into arrears and a late payment 
marker applied to his credit file. 
GC say a payment plan was also offered if Mr W was unable to make his contractual loan 
repayments. Interest would be frozen but arrears would continue to build and this would 
impact his credit file. Mr W was unhappy with this and says he felt intimidated. 
Mr W raised a number of complaints with GC and remained unhappy with their response. He 
then referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. GC say a default was 
registered, backdated to March 2021, but this was later removed - pending our Services 
consideration of the complaint. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. As Mr W didnt accept their view, the complaint has now been 
referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ive noted that Mr W complained to GC on a number of occasions (17 December 2020, 5 
and 6 January 2021) but GC hasnt addressed all complaint points. For example, Mr Ws 
point about the mentoring support. For completeness, Ive considered all points made  
regardless of whether or not GC fully addressed them, but at my discretion I may not make a 
written finding on them all if I believe they dont materially affect the outcome of this 
complaint. 
For example - Mr W has raised a number of points about the governments involvement in 
the funding process. Based on what Ive seen GC provided the finance in question here and 
the governments involvement is in relation to the overall scheme. The scheme opened up 
the possibility of obtaining finance to smaller businesses that may otherwise struggle through 
main stream lenders. More information is available in the FAQs section of the relevant third 
party website - which Mr W has shared evidence from. 
Mr W has also raised a concern about how GC have handled his data after receiving 
communication from debt related third parties. Any such concerns would be better dealt with 
by the Information Commissioners office. 
The initial lending
Mr W took a personal loan for business purposes. He has acknowledged that he was aware 
this was a personal loan, taken out in his name whilst the application process was ongoing. 
Mr W has argued that he wasnt eligible for the loan based on his company having been 
trading for more than 2 years at the time of application. 
Whether this was an oversight or error on the part of GC or the third party entity running the 
scheme (the actions of which Im not considering), Mr W has had the benefit of the maximum 
amount of finance available individually to him through this scheme and I wont comment 
further on this point. 
 
Mentoring
Mr W has shared a document that suggests 12 months free mentoring was a mandatory 
requirement of the loan. GC have told our Service that mentoring was actually optional and 
this is supported by the relevant third party website:
Do I have to receive mentoring in order to get a Start Up Loan?
No, you do not have to take up mentoring.
Ive seen nothing on the credit agreement signed by Mr W that undertaking mentoring was a 
condition of the loan. Ultimately, whether or not mentoring was offered or delivered doesnt 
change that Mr W entered into a personal loan agreement and was legally obliged to make 
repayments. 
Given the nature of the credit here and Mr Ws reasons for taking it, on balance, I dont find 
that he wouldve made a different decision about entering into the agreement had he been 
told mentoring wouldnt be offered. Ive also kept in mind that this loan was taken out in 2017 
and Ive seen no evidence that Mr W contacted GC about arranging mentoring in the 12 months afterwards  which reinforces in my opinion that his main reason for taking out this 
finance wasnt so he could avail of free mentoring.
Mr Ws financial difficulties and the support offered by GC
Its understandable that the COVID-19 pandemic and associated restrictions in 2020 and 
2021 had a massive impact on Mr Ws business. Having considered everything, Im satisfied 
that GC acted fairly and in line with the FCA guidance for lenders at that time when 
supporting his request for a payment deferral in March 2020 and the subsequent requests 
for an extension in June 2020 and September 2020. 
The September extension was at GCs discretion, but given that Mr W was still struggling 
financially and he had limited other options available, Ive seen no supporting evidence that it 
was the wrong decision or not in his best interests to approve this extension. 
I also find that that the decision to decline a further extension (after Mr W had already 
benefited from 9 months of payment deferrals) was fair and in line with the updated FCA 
guidance for lenders, formally published in November 2020 which limited payment deferrals 
to a maximum of six months.
GC offered alternative support - in the form of a payment plan instead of his contractual loan 
repayment. Mr W rejected it as it would negatively impact his credit file and instead he 
wanted to complain to the FCA.
I dont find it was wrong of GC to offer this additional support as Mr W explained that his 
income was still much lower than before March 2020. During a call with GC in December 
2020, Mr W said that he was given different information previously. But theres an important 
distinction to be made here. The COVID-19 payment deferrals generally didnt negatively 
impact a customers credit file, but once the payment deferrals ended, GC had a 
responsibility to accurately report a true picture of Mr Ws financial situation. 
Overall, I find that GC have acted fairly and reasonably when supporting Mr W through this 
period of financial difficulty. 
The January 2021 direct debit payment
During his call with GC in December 2020 Mr W told GC he wouldnt be making any 
payments. GC still debited a payment in January 2021. Generally any payment debited from 
a customer will be through an automated process, rather than being manually requested. Im 
satisfied that when Mr W flagged this issue on 5 January GC acted fairly in explaining the 
best and quickest way for him to have this payment reversed and the also the consequences 
on his credit file of doing so (account arrears).
The default 
GC have told our Service that a default was registered, but later removed due to our 
Services involvement in the complaint. As our Service has now concluded our consideration 
of this complaint, the default reporting should be updated to reflect the earlier date. This 
ensures it will drop off Mr Ws credit file as soon as possible and his use of our Service 
shouldnt mean the default date is later. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr W, but it brings to an end what our Service - in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with GC - can do for him.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman