DRN-3366724
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement offered by Tokio Marine Kiln Insurance Limited (TMK) 
on a claim he made on a business protection insurance policy.
Mr Hs claim and policy is administered by agents and representatives acting on behalf of 
TMK. Where I refer to TMK within this decision, this includes these agents and 
representatives.
What happened
Mr H is a self-employed building contractor. He was carrying out works at a property and 
during the course of these works, damaged was caused to a ceiling. A few days later, a 
temporary cover on a roof was blown away and an ingress of water into the property caused 
further damage. It was agreed that Mr H was liable for the damage and so he claimed on an 
insurance policy provided by TMK.
As part of the claims process, TMK assessed that there were two incidents and so two policy 
excesses of £500 would be applied. Mr H complained about this and also the amounts 
offered in settlement of the claim. There were various elements of the offer that Mr H was 
unhappy about which Ill address in turn. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with TMKs response. Our 
investigator thought that some parts of the settlement offer hadnt been reasonable. In 
response to this, Mr H said he believed that additional costs should also be covered. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I previously issued a provisional decision following my initial review of this complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I identified that while TMK wasnt disputing cover for the claims made 
by Mr H, the number of excesses being deducted and what was included in the settlement 
offer was the subject of the complaint. I commented on each of these areas separately, as 
below:
The policy excess
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy state that the excess is The amount or 
amounts shown in your policy or the schedule which you must pay for each and every 
claim and you will reimburse any such amount paid by us. The relevant excess for Mr H 
is £500 per claim.
TMKs position is that Mr H has made two claims here. The first is for damage caused to 
a ceiling when Mr H put his foot through it, and the second is for damage caused by 
water ingress when a temporary covering came away from a roof. The water ingress 
occurred five days after the ceiling damage.
Given the time between the two incidents, the differing locations within the property and 
the lack of a link between the circumstances giving rise to the damage, I think it was fair 
for TMK to conclude that these should be considered two separate claims. As two claims 
have been made, then two policy excesses of £500 would reasonably apply.
The hourly rate and hours worked
Mr H submitted the hours hed worked to carry out the repairs along with his hourly rate 
to TMK. It disputed both the number of hours claimed, saying that the works could have 
been done in less time than Mr H had claimed for, and also the rate, as it said the nature 
of the works could have been carried out by a general labourer at a lower rate.
After our investigator proposed that an independent expert be appointed to assess how 
long the works would reasonably have taken, TMK agreed to not only cover the full hours 
claimed by Mr H but also at his rate.
As TMK has now agreed to cover Mr Hs hourly rate for the full number of hours hes 
claimed, Im no longer required to assess whether his claim for this is reasonable. This 
point is now agreed and I endorse TMKs position. It should pay the hours claimed by Mr 
H at the rate claimed.
Im also minded to require TMK to pay simple interest on this amount at a rate of 8% per 
year. This is because even though it has now agreed to pay the full amount, it could have 
done so at the time the claim was made, in which case Mr H would have been in receipt 
of these funds and potentially able to earn interest on them. Paying interest in this way, 
and for this reason is in line with our services general approach to such matters.
Photographs of the damaged areas
As part of his claim, Mr H submitted photographs of the damaged areas to TMK at their 
request. Hes asked for the costs of this to be reimbursed. He says that TMK could have 
attended the scene and viewed the damage but chose not to, asking instead for 
photographs to substantiate the claim. He says that as it was TMKs decision not to attend, 
it should cover the costs he incurred in supplying the information it required.
Im not minded to require TMK to cover these costs. Its a common principle of insurance 
contracts that it is a policyholders duty to prove their claim, and meet reasonable costs in 
doing so. In addition, the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say that when a claim is 
made, he needs to At your expense, provide us with a written claim containing as much 
information as possible of the loss, liability, destruction, damage, accident or injury 
including the amount of the claim.
I understand Mr Hs position that as TMK asked for the photographs, and chose not to 
attend the property to view the damage, it should be liable for the costs he incurred in 
providing this information. I dont agree. It seems to me that asking Mr H to provide this 
information was a normal and reasonable request from TMK in order to confirm a valid 
claim had been made. In the circumstances, I think it was fair for it to rely on the policy 
condition which said that Mr H would have to pay any costs incurred in doing so.
Fuel costs and mileage
Mr H provided a number of receipts to TMK for fuel purchased in the period when the 
works were being carried out. TMK said the amount of fuel being purchased appeared excessive when looking at the distances he had to travel. It said it thought that the 
additional mileage hed have travelled in driving to the property and also purchasing items 
was 127 miles. It hasnt made any offer of fuel costs or a mileage rate for this. In 
communications with Mr H, it had said it hadnt been clear why Mr H needed to attend the 
property to carry out the works.
The reasoning for this no longer seems to me to be supported by TMKs position. If it 
now accepts it should pay Mr Hs rate for the hours hes claimed, it seems it accepts he 
would need to attend the property to carry out the repair works. So the costs he 
incurred in attending the property should also be covered.
Mr H has asked for the mileage calculated by TMK, 127 miles, to be reimbursed at a rate 
of 45p per mile. This is a common rate, and in line with HMRC guidance for business mile 
rates. It takes into account not only fuel costs but insurance, depreciation, road tax and 
wear and tear on the vehicle.
I accept that TMK should cover Mr Hs additional mileage to attend the property to carry 
out the repairs. Im satisfied that it should pay 127 miles at a rate of 45p per mile. It 
should also add 8% simple interest per year from the dates of travel to the date of 
settlement, for the same reasons I explained previously.
Tarpaulin
Mr H purchased and installed a tarpaulin to temporarily protect the property and prevent 
further damage. Hes claimed the cost of this but TMK declined to include the cost in its 
settlement offer. It said the tarpaulin could have been re-used on future works. Mr H says 
he prefers to purchase new tarpaulins rather than re-use them, as they could be damaged 
when used and its not a good use of time to check them for damage before deciding 
whether to re-use or dispose of them.
Im not persuaded that TMK needs to make any settlement for the tarpaulin. Mr H doesnt 
seem to suggest that he couldnt re-use the tarpaulin in question (or re-use one hed 
purchased previously rather than purchase a new one), but chose to use it once and 
dispose of it as thats his standard practice. He hasnt said (or provided any evidence to 
show) that the tarpaulin he purchased was damaged and couldnt be re-used. TMK should 
only be liable for costs that Mr H would otherwise not have incurred, and he has a duty to 
mitigate his losses.
I think its fair to say that the tarpaulin, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, 
could have been re-used, and so its cost wouldnt be solely linked to the claim. In 
disposing of it rather than confirming whether it could be re-used, I dont think Mr H has 
mitigated his losses. TMK doesnt need to include the tarpaulin in its settlement.
Underlay, cable ties and dust sheets
Mr H claimed the costs of a roll of underlay, cable ties and dust sheets from TMK. No 
settlement offer was made for these items. TMK said that it didnt understand why 
these items had been purchased given the nature of the works and the items being 
claimed.
Mr H has explained to us that hed purchased these items in order to prevent further 
damage to the property. He observes that TMK didnt attend the property to review the 
damage or the steps he was taking to effect repairs and prevent further damage.
I think Mr H raises a good point here. He was liable for the damage which had occurred and has explained what he did, why and the reason these items were purchased, in order 
to prevent further damage, for which hed potentially be liable. Such a liability would 
extend to TMK as his insurer and so I think by purchasing and using these items, hes 
acted in order to seek to mitigate his loss (and the potentially liability of TMK). I havent 
been made aware of anything from TMK to suggest that Mr H took unnecessary 
precautions or that the items hes claimed for werent used for the purpose outlined by Mr 
H.
I do want to note theres a difference here between these items and the photographs Ive 
discussed previously. While I said that TMKs lack of attendance at the site wasnt a 
reason to ask it to pay the costs of the photographs, I do conclude here that the lack of 
attendance at the site is a reason to pay these items. The photographs were required by 
TMK in order to validate the claim. With these items, Mr H acted in what he considered to 
the most appropriate way to protect the property from further damage. These items were 
part of that.
If TMK wanted to dispute how hed done so, or question why hed purchased these 
items, then it could have arranged for the property to be visited and the steps taken by 
Mr H to be reviewed. It didnt do so, and if it accepts he acted reasonably in carrying out 
the works (which by accepting his hours and rate, it should be assumed it has done), 
then it should also be liable for the costs he incurred in protecting the property from 
further damage.
I conclude that TMK should make a settlement for these items. It should also pay simple 
interest at a rate of 8% per year from the dates of purchase to the date of settlement. Ive 
previously outlined the reasons why this should be paid.
The responses to my provisional decision
On receipt of my provisional decision, Mr H queried an administrative point in relation to 
TMKs role as the insurer of the policy, but has made no comments on my provisional 
findings or recommendations for what should be included in the settlement.
TMK indicated it accepted the provisional findings and proposed that rather than calculate 
interest on every item, it pay the equivalent of 3 years of interest, given the incident dates 
in October 2018 and anticipated settlement by April 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further points have been made by either party about what I considered to be a fair 
settlement to Mr H, and which items should be included in the settlement. Ive reviewed my 
findings on these points and dont see any reason for me to change any of them.
I also think that TMKs offer with regards to the addition of interest to be practical and 
reasonable. It seems to me that doing this will enable the settlement figure to be reached 
more quickly than working out how much interest should be paid on each individual item. It 
also wont be to Mr Hs detriment as the interest is being back-dated to the date of the 
incidents, not the date that the costs were incurred which would have been later.
On reviewing all of the information available to me, Ive noted that in my provisional decision, 
I omitted to address a claim Mr H had made for cleaning costs. Hed claimed £200 for this, 
having contracted cleaners to carry out the works and paid them in cash. TMK offered £100 as Mr H hadnt provided a receipt for these costs or any details in order to validate the 
amount claimed. Mr H said this was unfair, as hed needed to source the cleaner at short 
notice and so paid cash. Our investigator had considered TMKs offer to be fair.
I agree that this was a fair offer by TMK. It was reasonable for it to expect that if Mr H 
contracted cleaners in the course of his professional duties, and incur costs which were 
known to likely form part of an insurance claim, hed obtain a receipt for the services 
rendered. I think it was reasonable to offer half the amount claimed in the absence of any 
confirmation of the amount claimed having been paid. Im not minded to ask TMK to include 
any further amount in the settlement.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Tokio 
Marine Kiln Insurance Limited must:
- Cover Mr Hs hourly rate at the number of hours hed claimed for to carry out the 
remedial works.
- Cover 127 miles of additional travel at a rate of 45p per mile.
- Cover the purchase costs of underlay, cable ties and dust sheets purchased by Mr H 
to protect the property from further damage.
TMK must also pay 8% simple interest per year for a total of 3 years on these amounts. 
Any settlement made will need to take into account the two £500 policy excesses which are 
applicable to the claims made by Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman