DRN-3039959
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants 
BMWFS to accept his rejection of the car and to refund at least two thirds of the monthly 
payments, plus the deposit.
What happened
Mr D obtained a new car using a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in June 2018. The 
following month, Mr D had to return the car to the supplying garage because of a noise 
coming from the roof trim and then, over the following months, the car had to be returned on 
several occasions for various faults.
When Mr D complained to BMWFS, it offered for Mr D to return the car, it would settle the 
agreement and he could use the deposit towards a replacement car at the supplying garage. 
It also offered to refund him two months payments in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr D rejected this offer and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. But neither party 
agreed with her recommendations for putting things right, so the complaint was passed to 
me.
My first provisional decision
I set out my conclusions in a provisional decision dated 22 July 2021. I said:
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is the supplier of goods 
under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality. It seems 
clear from BMWFSs response to our investigators conclusions that it now agrees 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality because it has agreed to accept Mr Ds rejection 
of the car. So I dont need to consider this in any detail as both parties are now in 
agreement. The matter that remains in dispute is what BMWFS needs to do to put 
this right and the compensation it should fairly pay.
I agree with our investigator that BMWFS should accept Mr Ds rejection of the car 
and end the agreement with nothing further for him to pay. It should refund the 
deposit he paid of £5,078, plus interest.
Mr D told us he hadnt driven the car since December 2020, apart from a couple of 
occasions when he really needed it. And I thought this was a reasonable decision  even 
though BMWFS said the car remained roadworthy, there had been several problems with 
the car and some faults remained, despite attempted repair. I set out how I thought BMWFS 
should compensate Mr D for the lack of use of the car since December 2020, including 
refunding all payments, plus interest, and reimbursing other costs such as insurance 
premiums.
I went on to consider compensation for Mr Ds loss of enjoyment of the car before he 
stopped driving it  so from the date he obtained it to December 2020. I said:
Mr D says he covered considerably less mileage than he was able to under the terms 
of the hire purchase agreement. Although Mr D said hed contracted to an annual 
mileage of 10,000 miles, I can see the agreement sets out an annual mileage of 
8,000 miles per annum. So, from the date he obtained the car (June 2018), to the 
date he stopped driving it (December 2020), he was able to drive up to 20,000 miles 
without incurring an excess mileage charge. Mr D says he only drove the car 16,000 
miles. Whilst I will take this mileage into account when arriving at the compensation 
figure, I dont think its fair to calculate compensation based solely on the miles he 
could have driven and didnt. I say this because I cant conclude with any certainty 
that Mr D would have driven the maximum allowed mileage if he hadnt experienced 
problems with the car. Particularly taking into account the national lockdowns which 
would have naturally meant he would have covered less miles.
Whilst he was provided with a courtesy car, this was not the same specification as 
the car hed obtained and was paying for, and his enjoyment of the car has been 
affected. Our investigator recommended that BMWFS should refund three months 
payments. Whilst Im aware Mr D would like considerably more than this, I think this 
amounts to fair and reasonable compensation. Im not recommending there are three 
specific months that should be refunded. Rather, that three months refund, which 
amounts to £1,950, is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr D for his lack 
of enjoyment. So its not appropriate to award interest on this payment.
I then considered compensation for any distress and inconvenience cause to Mr D because 
he was supplied with an unsatisfactory quality car. I said:
Mr D was supplied with a brand-new car and it was reasonable for him to expect it to 
be fault free for a significant period of time. He experienced a number of problems 
with the car and returned it to the garage on at least six occasions for repair. And 
hes reported that at least two of the initial faults have not been successfully fixed. 
Fortunately, he had access to another car, but there were occasions  particularly 
with his young family  that he needed two cars. Its clear this has been inconvenient 
for him. Ive also thought about whether BMWFS treated Mr D fairly after he raised 
his complaint. I think its clear from its communications with the supplying garage 
that, by February 2021, it thought rejection would probably be the outcome if the 
complaint was referred to this service. So its disappointing that it didnt accept Mr Ds 
rejection of the car until it was recommended by our investigator. Taking all this into 
account, I think £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr Ds been caused.
I thought BMWFS should record the agreement as settled on Mr Ds credit file or remove it 
altogether.
Finally I explained why I didnt think the cost of the new car Mr D had ordered and the likely 
value of his existing car made a difference to my conclusions. I said:
I appreciate the overall compensation award is considerably less than Mr D would 
like. But I have considered this very carefully and have explained why I think this is a fair outcome in the circumstances here. I also understand that Mr Ds recently had to 
pay more than he did in 2018 for a new car. But I dont find its BMWFSs 
responsibility to compensate Mr D for the increased price  hes chosen the car he 
would like and he reasonably will have to pay more for a brand new car now than he 
did three years ago.
Finally, Mr D has obtained an online valuation of his car and says its worth more 
than the outstanding amount he owes  and that its increasing. He feels BMWFS 
has gained because of the delay in settling his complaint. My role is to decide what 
BMWFS should do to fairly compensate Mr D. The value BMWFS is able to sell the 
car for does not form part of my consideration  my role does not extend to fining or 
penalising the business.
In summary, I concluded BMWFS needed to take the following action to resolve the 
complaint:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr D to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
3. Refund the deposit paid.
4. Refund all Mr Ds payments from, and including, January 2021 to the date of the 
settlement.
5. Provide a pro-rata refund of payments from 21 December 2020 to the January 2021 
payment date.
6. Provide a pro-rata reimbursement of Mr Ds insurance premium from 21 December 
2020 to the date of settlement.
7. Reimburse Mr D with £50 for the cost of the June 2021 MOT.
8. Pay Mr D £1,950, being the equivalent of three months payments, to reflect his loss 
of enjoyment of the car.
9. Pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
10. Mark the agreement as settled on Mr Ds credit file or remove it altogether.
11. Add interest at 8% simple to items 3,4,5,6 and 7 above, from the date Mr D made the 
payments to the date of settlement.
My second provisional decision
Neither party agreed with my first provisional decision, so I reconsidered my conclusions 
taking into account their comments. I was minded to change my conclusions and I set out 
the reasons why in a second provisional decision dated 18 August 2021. I said:
BMWFS says I didnt take into account that Mr D was initially happy with what it 
offered in its final response to his complaint  it didnt agree to accept his rejection of 
the car, but it agreed he could exchange it for another car using the deposit he paid 
in 2018 as part payment, that his existing agreement would be settled, and that 
BMWFS would refund two months payments as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think 
Mr Ds actions here were unreasonable or have a bearing on the outcome of his complaint. I say this because Mr D entered negotiations with the supplying garage for 
a replacement car but, as he couldnt find a suitable car for the same, or similar, 
monthly cost, he decided BMWFSs offer wasnt acceptable and he referred his 
complaint to us.
As I explained in my provisional decision, BMWFS is responsible for supplying a car 
to Mr D that was not of satisfactory quality. Mr D asked to reject the car on 21 
December 2020 following at least six times he had to return it to the supplying garage 
for repairs. Mr D told BMWFS that the repairs had only been partially successful. He 
said there was still a rattling noise, a clutch judder, and that there was a delay in 
engaging into gear when the car was driven. Ive not seen an independent report to 
evidence these faults, but Ive no reason to doubt what Mr D says. And the fact that 
the car passed an MOT in June 2021 doesnt mean these faults dont exist  just that 
they werent identified during the MOT, which isnt surprising considering and MOT 
does not include a road test.
BMWFS says it doesnt agree to refund Mr Ds payments from December 2020, 
because theres nothing to suggest the car was unroadworthy. It says Mr D chose not 
to drive the car, although he has in fact been driving it.
Mr D told us he chose not to drive the car because it still had faults and he was 
worried that driving the car would make the faults worse or that it might break down. 
And his concern about a break down and the safety of the car is understandable, 
particularly bearing in mind his young family would likely have been in the car with 
him.
But Mr D also told us that there have been occasions since December 2020 when 
hes had to use the car because he needed transport and his wifes car wasnt 
available.
We asked him to supply a recent mileage reading and I can see that since December 
2020 he has driven the car around 948 miles. This roughly equates to an annual 
mileage of around 1,500, compared to the 8,000 maximum mileage allowable in the 
hire purchase contract.
Whilst I find Mr D has driven the car considerably less than he might have done since 
December 2020, he has had some use of it. And I dont think the number of miles 
hes covered reflects what hes said about being concerned about driving the car. For 
that reason, I dont think it would be fair for BMWFS to refund all the payments hes 
made since December 2020. It seems to me that Mr D has continued to have use of 
the car, albeit he decided to keep the mileage to a minimum. I think it would be fair 
for BMWFS to refund two months payments. As the refund does not relate to specific 
months, I dont require BMWFS to add interest to this refund.
In my provisional decision, I outlined why I thought BMWFS should reimburse Mr D 
for the costs of running the car since December 2020, specifically his insurance 
premium and MOT. Mr D would also like the car tax reimbursed. But now I am aware 
of the mileage Mr D has covered since December 2020, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to ask BMWFS to reimburse him for the costs of running a car, when 
he has had some use of it.
I appreciate Mr D will be unhappy with my revised conclusions  he had already said 
that he should be entitled to more than Id originally suggested. But I cannot fairly 
order BMWFS to refund all payments and costs of running the car when it has been used. I think the refund of two months payments fairly reflects that he limited his use 
of the car, but that this was his choice to do so.
In my provisional decision, I set out why I thought BMWFS should pay Mr D £1,950  
the equivalent of three months payments  to reflect his loss of enjoyment of the car. 
BMWFS did not agree because it said Id recommended a full refund of payments 
from December 2020 and that Mr D had been provided with a courtesy car when his 
car was being repaired. The refund of payments from December 2020 reflected the 
fact that Mr D told us he had not used the car since then and is a separate issue from 
his lack of enjoyment of the car up until December 2020.
Whilst he was provided with a courtesy car, this wasnt the car he was paying for. 
Hed chosen a new car and, because it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, his enjoyment of it was curtailed. I think the refund of three months 
payments fairly reflects this.
BMWFS also said that £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused was 
excessive. Ive reconsidered this carefully but am not minded to change my 
conclusion for the reasons I set out in my earlier provisional decision. In summary, 
Mr D had to return his car to the garage on at least six occasions. And BMWFS didnt 
accept Mr Ds rejection of the car when he asked it to in December 2020, even 
though its clear from BMWFSs correspondence with the supplying garage that it 
thought this was the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
In summary, I concluded BMWFS needed to take the following action to resolve the 
complaint:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr D to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
3. Refund the deposit paid, plus interest at 8% simple from the date the deposit was 
paid to the date of settlement. *
4. Pay Mr D £1,300, being the equivalent of two months payments, to reflect his 
limited use of the car since December 2020.
5. Pay Mr D £1,950, being the equivalent of three months payments, to reflect his 
loss of enjoyment of the car.
6. Pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
7. Mark the agreement as settled on Mr Ds credit file or remove it altogether.
BMWFS agreed with my second provisional decision.
Mr D didnt agree. He set out his reasons in some detail and I will summarise them very 
briefly here  he said:
Hes driven the car on no more than five occasions since December 2020 and he set out 
the journeys he made. He emphasised he only used the car for emergency purposes 
when he had no alternative option  his wife needing her car to transport their young 
family, and hiring a car not really being an option. He didnt know what else he should 
do, taking into account we were in the middle of a pandemic and there was no guarantee 
that his payments would be refunded.The use of his car equates to less than 19% of his contracted allowance of 8,000 miles a 
year.
The car still has faults. He drove it, knowing it might break down. He didnt think this was 
acceptable but had no other option. He didnt feel safe driving the car in case he had an 
accident which would further complicate the situation.
The compensation does not cover his inconvenience over three years, a year of chasing 
this complaint, and the lack of use hes had of the car.
It should be taken into account that he has remained loyal to the brand, ordering a new 
car from BMW.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I mentioned in my second provisional decision that I realised Mr D would be disappointed 
with my revised conclusions. I recognise his strength of feeling and I want to reassure him 
that I considered this very carefully before I reached my revised conclusions. I have now 
considered the detail of his response and carefully considered what he has said. I am sorry 
to disappoint him, but I dont find any reason to depart from those conclusions.
Mr D said he chose not to drive the car from December 2020 because it still had faults and 
he did not feel safe to drive it. I accepted this as reasonable and I accepted that he may 
have still used it  despite his concerns  for emergencies. But his emergency use extended 
to driving 948 miles, which I dont consider reflects the concerns he expressed. I fully accept 
Mr D was put in a difficult situation and that he drove far less than the mileage allowed under 
the terms of the hire purchase agreement. But I cant say for certain how much mileage he 
would have covered, and I think a refund of two months payments is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
I find the overall compensation as set out in my second provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable. I appreciate Mr D has remained loyal to BMW, but this isnt something that I can 
take into account in arriving at my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr D to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
3. Refund the deposit paid, plus interest at 8% simple from the date the deposit was paid to 
the date of settlement. *
4. Pay Mr D £1,300, being the equivalent of two months payments, to reflect his limited use 
of the car since December 2020.
5. Pay Mr D £1,950, being the equivalent of three months payments, to reflect his loss of 
enjoyment of the car.
6. Pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.7. Mark the agreement as settled on Mr Ds credit file or remove it altogether.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. BMW Finance Plc must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman