DRN-2722369
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hadnt told her that action 
needed to be taken following her most recent annual boiler service, that it charged her £60 
excess in error and that it changed her policy terms without letting her know. 
What happened
Mrs H took out a HomePlan maintenance agreement with a third-party business, who Ill 
refer to as Company A, in 2012. In around 2015 the agreement became part annual boiler 
service contract and part insurance policy. RSA took over as the insurance policy 
underwriters in June 2017 and Company A continued to manage the day to day 
administration of the policy. The policy underwritten by RSA covered Mrs Hs central heating 
system, boiler, plumbing, electrics, drains and pipes. The annual boiler maintenance 
agreement continued with Company A. The combined policies cost around £250 annually 
and were automatically renewed every year.  
Company A carried out an annual service on Mrs Hs boiler in March 2019 under the 
maintenance agreement. 
Mrs H contacted Company A in July 2019 to report a fault with the boiler, and again the 
following day when the boiler started working again. Mrs Hs husband then contacted 
Company A two days later, as the boiler had again stopped working and Mrs H was without 
heating and hot water. Company A said a £60 excess would be charged. 
An engineer went to Mrs Hs home the following day and found a variety of faults with the 
boiler. The boiler was assessed by Company A as being beyond economical repair (BER). 
Company A informed Mrs H that the boiler would need to be replaced, but that it couldnt be 
replaced under the RSA policy because the boiler was more than 10 years old. 
Mrs H complained to RSA. She said when she took out the contract, she was told there 
would be no excess charged, and there hadnt been until 2019, so she said she shouldnt 
have been asked to pay this. Mrs H also believed her boiler would be replaced if it wasnt 
working and this was why she took the policy out. Mrs H said that there had been a boiler 
service every year and she was assured each time that the boiler was working fine. 
Mrs H said when she first contacted Company A in July 2019, she was told shed receive a 
call within a few hours. But by the time she contacted Company A to let it know the boiler 
was working again, over 24 hours had passed and she hadnt received a call as promised.
Mrs H said when the engineer inspected the boiler, he asked about the most recent service, 
as he said the boiler was mostly corroded. Mrs H said shes now seen service paperwork 
from the March 2019 service that highlighted issues with the boiler and said these werent 
relayed to her. Mrs H said she wanted to know what actions Company A undertook when it 
received the report from the service engineer in March 2019.
 
In relation to RSA declining her claim to have her boiler replaced, Mrs H said she never 
received amended terms and conditions saying the boiler would not be replaced if it was 
over 10 years old. She asked for evidence to show these were sent to her. Mrs H said the 
goalposts had been moved during her contract without her being told of the changes and so 
this policy was not suitable for her. Mrs H said she would have replaced her boiler in 2016, 
when it was ten years old, if shed known the policy no longer covered her for replacing it.
 
Mrs H said she should get a replacement boiler, £60 refund for the excess charged and the 
cost of the phone call her husband had to make while the family were on holiday.
 
RSA responded and said it went through Mrs Hs policy from the time it started in 2012. It 
said renewals were sent out to Mrs H in December of every year. And it said it sent a new 
schedule by her preferred method whenever she or it made a change to the insurance, and 
each year before renewal so she could check the cover met her needs.
 
RSA said Mrs Hs husband agreed the £60 excess charge and when Mrs H called to discuss 
this, it agreed to refund it but didnt action this. It said it has since arranged the refund. It said 
the engineer who attended on 17 July 2019 said parts of the boiler had scale on them and 
the agreement doesnt cover damage due to scale, sludge or debris. Mrs H was offered 
£150 compensation because of the missed appointment and for the inconvenience and 
stress of Company A not advising of the fault following the boiler service in March 2019.
Mrs H was unhappy with the response and so complained to this service. She said various 
repairs have been carried out over seven years without an excess being charged. And this 
hasnt yet been refunded. Mrs H said action should have been taken when the boiler was 
found to be corroded during the March 2019 annual service. Mrs H said she would have 
replaced the boiler then if she had known about the problems with it. Mrs H said the only 
policy documentation she ever received was from 2013 and theres nothing about the boiler 
not being replaced if older than 10 years. Mrs H believed her boiler would be replaced if it 
couldnt be repaired. She said the new boiler cost around £1,500. 
Mrs H also said she arranged for a family member to wait for an engineer at her home 
because she was on holiday. And while the engineer arrived and parked outside her home, 
he didnt visit her property. Mrs H said her husband had to call to sort this out.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said Mrs Hs policy is split in two  an 
insurance contract and a service contract. And that the service contract, for an annual boiler 
service, is not covered under the insurance contract. This means the annual boiler service 
contract is not a regulated activity and so this service cant look into what happened when 
Company A carried out the annual services on Mrs Hs boiler. 
Our investigator said Mrs H didnt have a £60 excess on her policy and this has now been 
refunded. He also said RSA settled the claim in line with the terms and conditions and that 
clear information was provided regarding the policy benefits at each renewal. 
Mrs H didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2021 and said that I intended to ask RSA to pay 
an additional £50 compensation to Mrs H for taking the excess amount out of her account 
and initially overlooking returning it to her. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond.
 
Mrs H responded and said she doesnt agree that the correct paperwork was sent to her. 
That theres no concrete evidence that it was sent to her, because it wasnt. Mrs H said that 
when she took out her contract there was never any communication about RSA being the 
insurer. She said Company As failure to communicate left her in financial hardship. 
RSA also responded and agreed to pay the additional compensation. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am partially upholding this complaint.
Mrs H has raised a number of different complaint points and asked this service to look into 
them. However, while our service can consider a wide variety of complaints about financial 
services, we arent free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set 
out what complaints we can consider are the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) in the FCA 
handbook. I appreciate that it must be quite frustrating from Mrs Hs perspective that we can 
only look at some of the issues shes raised. So Ill first of all explain what we can look at and 
why. 
Broadly speaking, this service can only look into complaints about regulated activities 
undertaken by regulated businesses. Both RSA and Company A are businesses regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and this means we can look into complaints about 
either of them. However, for the purposes of this decision, I can only look into what RSA has 
or hasnt done, as complaints about separate businesses need to be looked at separately by 
this service. If Mrs H wants to raise a complaint against Company A then she can do this, 
but we would deal with it as a separate complaint. So I will only be looking into RSAs 
actions and this means I can only look at what has happened since RSA took over as 
underwriter of Mrs Hs policy in June 2017. 
The policy Mrs H bought from Company A is made up of two parts. One is the boiler 
maintenance contract and the other is the insurance policy. My understanding is that the 
annual boiler service is carried out under the maintenance contract and if any issues arise 
and the boiler needs attention, then its likely repairs can be carried out under the insurance 
policy. And the boiler maintenance contract is provided by Company A, while the insurance 
policy  although administered by Company A  is provided and underwritten by RSA. And 
so this means I can only look at the insurance policy here, as this is the only part of the 
contract that RSA is responsible for. 
In terms of what I cant look at, I cant look at anything to do with the boiler maintenance 
contract. So although Mrs H has complained that she wasnt told about the faults found with 
her boiler in March 2019, I cant look into this because it is part of the maintenance contract 
that is provided by Company A. Just to be clear, Im not saying that something hasnt gone 
wrong with the maintenance part of the contract, its just that I cant look into whether or not it 
has. As I said above, I can only look into the insurance policy from the point it was taken 
over by RSA in June 2017. 
Did RSA act fairly when it charged £60 excess?
RSA said that Mrs H shouldnt have been charged the £60 excess following it attending her 
property on 17 July 2019. RSA confirmed Mrs H didnt ever have an excess for boiler related 
call outs  it said the only excess was on internal and external drains. RSA has now 
refunded the money, but at the time Mrs H brought this complaint to our service, RSA hadnt 
refunded it yet and acknowledged that it overlooked doing so.  
So RSA incorrectly told Mrs H she would be charged, took a payment from her account and 
overlooked refunding the money when it said it would. I can see from what Mrs H has said to 
this service that having £60 unexpectedly taken out of her account left her both distressed and inconvenienced, as she had not planned for this to happen and could ill afford it. And so 
I think RSA should compensate Mrs H for this error and Im satisfied £50 is a fair amount.
 
I realise that Mrs H had previously been awarded £150 compensation, but this issue wasnt 
taken into account when that amount was calculated. So the £50 I mentioned is in addition to 
any compensation already awarded.  
Did RSA act fairly when it said Mrs Hs boiler was BER?
 
I can see that a number of faults with Mrs Hs boiler were identified during 17 July 2019 call 
out. The next step for RSA was to calculate the cost of repairing the boiler. Ive seen the 
notes that show this was done and the first calculation was for around £1,150. There was 
also a second calculation of over £800. RSA then checked the cost of a comparable boiler 
with an independent supplier and the cost was around £999. 
The terms of Mrs Hs policy say that for repairing a boiler to be considered economical, the 
cost of parts including VAT should not exceed 75% of the price of a boiler of the same or 
similar make and model to that covered. So, taking the figures above into consideration, Im 
satisfied that RSA acted fairly and in line with its own terms and conditions when it said the 
cost of repairing the boiler meant it was BER.
  
Documentation provided to Mrs H
 
Mrs H complained that she wasnt told about what she thought was a change in her policy 
terms, namely that her boiler would no longer be replaced under the policy regardless of age 
 it would only be replaced under the policy if it was under 10 years old. 
I can only look at what has happened since RSA took over as underwriters of the policy and 
so I cant look into whether it was the case that Mrs H was initially covered for a replacement 
boiler regardless of how old her boiler was. Although I will say that Mrs H forwarded a copy 
of earlier terms and conditions that show the boiler was covered for only 12 years, and not 
indefinitely regardless of its age. 
RSA said it changed the terms of the policy in relation to boiler replacement coverage from 
12 years to 10 years from 2017. And it said this was communicated to consumers, like 
Mrs H, as and when their policies were up for renewal and the existing cover was 
guaranteed until that point.  
RSA told me that from November 2017 all renewals were issued based on the new RSA 
terms and conditions. And, in addition, it said the change in the terms was highlighted by 
enclosing a leaflet that explained RSA would no longer honour boiler replacement on 
policies where the boiler is over 10 years old at renewal. I have no way of knowing if the 
leaflet was definitely included in Mrs Hs renewal documents, but Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, that it was most likely sent to affected customers by RSA. And I can 
see the schedule of insurance for 2017 / 2018 shows the boiler was only covered for 10 
years. I can also see that the schedule was correctly addressed, so Im satisfied RSA sent 
the insurance schedule that showed the boiler was only covered for 10 years. 
Mrs H has made claims under the policy and so she has, over several years, renewed and 
used the policy. So she knew she had the policy, and it was up to Mrs H to ensure she read 
the policy documentation to ensure the policy continued to meet her needs.  
Did RSA act fairly when it didnt contribute towards the cost of Mrs Hs new boiler? As outlined above, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say that her 
boiler is only covered under the boiler replacement part of the policy until it is 10 years old. 
And so Im satisfied that RSA acted fairly when it told Mrs H that it wouldnt contribute 
towards the cost of her new boiler. 
Mrs H also said if she had known that her boiler was no longer covered after 10 years then 
she would have had it replaced sooner. It might well be that Mrs H would have done this. But 
I cant see this makes any difference to the complaint Mrs H has brought to this service. If 
Mrs H had wanted a new boiler before the old one was 10 years old, she would still have 
had to pay for that herself. It would not have been covered by the policy unless it had 
stopped working and was deemed to be BER. And this didnt happen until 2019. 
I understand that Mrs H said the main reason she took out the policy was so that her boiler 
would be fully covered. And its the case that the policy didnt cover Mrs H for a replacement 
boiler since 2016. But the policy did offer cover for boiler repairs, as well as cover for central 
heating, plumbing, electrics drains and pipes. So Im satisfied Mrs H still had the benefit of a 
policy that covered a range of issues, including ensuring she had a working boiler until it was 
deemed to be BER in 2019. 
Customer service provided by RSA
RSA has already offered to pay £150 compensation in relation to one of its engineers 
missing an appointment with Mrs H and because Company A hadnt informed her about 
problems with her boiler after the annual service in March 2019. But, as I said above, I think 
RSA needs to pay an additional £50 for taking the £60 excess amount from Mrs Hs bank 
account and initially overlooking returning that to her. 
  
My final decision
I am partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to 
pay an additional £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman