DRN-3350497
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service hes received from American Express Services Europe 
Limited, trading as American Express (AmEx), surrounding a fine he incurred on his AmEx 
charge card account from a hotel.
What happened
Mr J was charged a fine by a hotel for smoking in the bathroom of his hotel room when he 
stayed there. The hotel had Mr Js AmEx charge card account details held as security and 
requested the fine amount from AmEx, who then paid the hotel from Mr Js AmEx charge 
card account. Mr J disputed the fine with AmEx. But given that Mr J didnt dispute that he 
had smoked in the hotel room bathroom, AmEx felt that the fine charged by the hotel was 
fair. Mr J wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
AmEx looked at Mr Js complaint. They maintained that the fine charged by the hotel was 
reasonable, and as such they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr J by allowing 
the fine amount to be taken from his AmEx charge card account.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with AmExs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that AmEx had acted 
unfairly towards Mr J, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J doesnt dispute that he did smoke in the hotel room bathroom, but he feels that the fine 
that was charged by the hotel because of this was excessive and so he asked AmEx to act 
on his behalf and challenge and recover the fine amount that they allowed the hotel to take.
While I can appreciate how Mr H might feel that the hotel has charged him excessively, I 
dont feel that its AmExs responsibility or obligation to pursue this matter on Mr Js behalf in 
the way that Mr J would have liked. 
Rather, I feel it was incumbent on Mr J to have challenged the fine with the hotel himself, if 
he wasnt happy with the fine amount, although I acknowledge that there was no guarantee 
that Mr J would have been successful in doing so, especially given as he freely admits that 
he did smoke in the hotel room bathroom, which wasnt permitted by the hotel.
I appreciate that Mr J feels that the fine amount charged by the hotel is unfair and excessive, 
and that this of itself should provide justification for AmEx to act on his behalf, But I dont feel 
that the fine amount was unquestionably excessive here, and because of this Im satisfied 
that the responsibility for challenging the fine rested with Mr J and that it was fair for AmEx to 
allow the hotel to take what appears to have been a reasonable and legitimate fine amount.
Mr J has questioned why AmEx arent obliged to provide the protective service thats usually 
offered by credit card accounts, such as that provided under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. However, given that the hotel have charged what appears to be a legitimate 
charge as a consequence of Mr J undertaking an act prohibited by the hotel, which Mr J has 
admitted to doing, its questionable whether a section 75 claim would be successful here, if it 
were possible that one could be raised.
But the protection offered by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 only applies to credit accounts. 
And Mr Js AmEx account is a charge card account and therefore isnt a credit account and 
doesnt entail any form of credit agreement. As such, Mr Js account isnt an eligible account 
such that a section 75 claim could be raised.
Finally, Mr J is unhappy with the language used by AmExs agent when he spoke with them 
on the telephone. AmEx dispute Mr Js testimony about what their agent said to him, and 
unfortunately a recording of the telephone call no longer exists. 
Given the impartial nature of this service this makes it very difficult for me to uphold this 
aspect of Mr Js complaint as he would like. This is because theres nothing to confirm what 
AmExs agent did or did not say. Furthermore, I dont feel that it can be reasonably 
hypothesised from the information that is available to me that its more likely than not, on 
balance, that AmExs agent would have spoken to Mr J in the aggressive and dismissive 
manner which Mr J contends here, and as such I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably 
uphold this aspect of Mr Js complaint..
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing AmEx to take any further action. I trust that 
Mr J will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman