DRN-4104346
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pay a cheque he issued. 
What happened
Mr Ws told us that on 15 September 2022 he wrote a cheque made out to himself for 
£50,000 and paid it into an account he holds with another bank Ill call N. The cheque was 
processed by N but Lloyds later declined to pay it. On 21 September 2022 Lloyds sent Mr W 
a letter to let him know the cheque hadnt been paid. Mr Ws explained he was away at the 
time so wasnt aware his cheque hadnt been paid. 
Mr Ws advised he contacted Lloyds to try and understand what happened and also visited 
the branch on several occasions. Mr W says he wasnt contacted by Lloyds as promised and 
that he was told the complaint had been closed despite the issue being unresolved. 
Lloyds issued a final response on 3 November 2022 and paid Mr W £30 to cover his travel 
costs and £20 to apologise for the service provided. Lloyds also apologised that Mr Ws 
complaint had been closed when it shouldve been escalated and that the information 
provided differed between the people he spoke with. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint and upheld it. In his submissions, 
Mr W explained he had intended to use the funds to pay into a savings account so had lost 
out on the interest he wouldve received. Mr W also said hed incurred taxi costs when 
visiting the branch. Our investigator asked Lloyds to pay Mr W 3.75% interest from the 15 
September 2022 until 21 September 2022, the date it wrote to let him know the cheque 
hadnt been paid. The investigator also asked Lloyds to pay Mr W a total of £70 in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience cause in addition to the £30 compensation paid for the cost 
of his taxis. 
Lloyds accepted the investigators recommendations but Mr W asked to appeal and said 
hed made multiple complaints about the issues raised and that Lloyds hadnt shared the full 
details with us. As Mr W asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr W is upset that Lloyds didnt pay the cheque he deposited. N was 
satisfied the cheque was genuine and passed it to Lloyds for processing. And whilst Lloyds 
has confirmed Mr Ws cheque was likely scrutinised whilst being processed, it hasnt been 
able to explain why it declined to pay it. So whilst Lloyds did write to Mr W to confirm his 
cheque hadnt been paid, it cant tell us why. Im satisfied its reasonable for Lloyds to 
compensate Mr W for the loss of interest he may have suffered along with the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr W on 21 September 2022 to advise it hadnt paid the cheque. Whilst it 
took around a week, thats in line with Lloyds process when a cheque isnt paid. And Im not 
persuaded it was unreasonable for Lloyds to write to Mr W explaining what had happened. 
Mr Ws told us he was away for around a month so didnt initially see Lloyds letter. But thats 
not something I can reasonably say Lloyds would have been aware of. 
Our investigator recommended Lloyds pay Mr W interest at the rate the savings account 
wouldve paid (3.75%) from 15 September 2022 to 21 September 2022. In addition, the 
investigator awarded 8% simple interest on the refund amount until the date of settlement. 
Im satisfied that the interest award is a fair way to recognise Mr Ws losses and resolve this 
part of his complaint.
Lloyds has agreed to pay Mr W a total of £70 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused along with £30 to cover his travel costs. Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im 
satisfied the settlement agreed reasonably reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr W 
and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
Mr Ws explained that he raised several complaints about this issue with Lloyds and that he 
is unhappy with the way his case was dealt with. I understand Mr W feels Lloyds has misled 
us and failed to provide all its evidence. But Lloyds final response accepts Mr Ws complaint 
wasnt escalated as it shouldve been and that the service provided was poor at times. I 
should also add that complaint handling, in its own right, isnt something our service has the 
powers to consider unless its directly connected to the main issues raised. And whilst I dont 
doubt what Mr Ws told us about his experiences with Lloyds I think its fair to say they 
werent directly linked to the key issue which was the decision not to pay his cheque. So 
whilst I understand Mr W is upset at the way his complaint was handled, our rules dont allow 
me to make an award or uphold a complaint on that basis. 
Lloyds has agreed to refund interest and pay Mr W £70 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused in addition to £30 travel costs. As Im satisfied thats a fair way to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint Im not increasing the award further or telling Lloyds to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle as 
follows: 
- Pay Mr W 3.75% interest on the £50,000 cheque funds from 15 September 2022 to 
21 September 2022 plus 8% interest on that award until the date of settlement
- Pay Mr W £30 in respect of travel costs plus £70 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused (less any compensation already paid)Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman