DRN-2567213
The complaint
  Mr M complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave him incorrect 
information about payments to his mortgage. Halifax paid Mr M £150 compensation, but he 
wants £1,760.
What happened
 Mr M and his mother had a Halifax mortgage. They became estranged, and Mr M moved 
out in September 2019. It was agreed that the mortgage would be transferred from Mr M and 
his mother, to his mother and sister.
On 14 October, Mr M rang Halifax. He explained that the other party to the current mortgage 
was transferring to another Halifax mortgage with another person, and he was coming off the 
mortgage. He asked what he was supposed to be doing about his repayments, if the transfer 
went beyond the current month. The adviser didnt understand what Mr M wanted, although 
he explained it clearly. She put him on hold, and when she came back asked again what he 
wanted. Mr M explained again that he wanted to know what would happen to the additional 
money that would have been paid off the mortgage. The adviser still didnt understand, and 
Mr M explained again. He was put on hold and eventually the call disconnected.
Mr M tried again, ringing on 15 October. He explained again that the agreement with the 
other parties was for the exact amount of the mortgage, and he wanted to know what would 
happen about payments he would be making before the transfer concluded and he came off 
the mortgage. This adviser, like the previous one, didnt understand. She talked about Mr M 
having requested a redemption figure, which he hadnt, and she then offered him a 
redemption figure, which again wasnt what hed requested, and then talked about the 
amount of his direct debits. She repeatedly misunderstood what Mr M wanted to know. Mr M 
had to correct her several times. 
Mr M was put on hold again, and after another long wait, the adviser said Mr M could 
continue paying his direct debit but only until three months. Mr M again explained this 
wasnt what he had asked, and repeated his question about what would happen to payments 
he made before the transfer. The adviser confirmed that these payments would be refunded.
Mr M next rang on 18 and 19 December. By then, hed signed the agreement finalising the 
mortgage transfer.  He wanted to check that the January payment wouldnt be requested, 
and also wanted to know when hed get the November and December payments refunded. 
Hed made the normal monthly payment of £580.02 in both months.
On 18 December, he was again put on hold, and had to go before the adviser came back to 
him. On 19 December, the adviser told Mr M that the existing mortgage would end when the 
new one started, and Mr M asked if he could pause the January payment, if the transfer 
didnt go through in December. Halifaxs adviser told Mr M that might affect his credit file. Mr 
M accepted that. But Halifaxs adviser also said that hed have thought both parties would be 
liable to the end of the mortgage, and asked whod told Mr M that hed be refunded for the 
monthly payments from November onwards. Mr M told him, providing his mobile number and 
approximate date for the call. He said that if hed been told that he wouldnt be refunded for 
the monthly payments, hed have made different arrangements  and hed signed the 
agreement now.
In its reply to Mr Ms complaint, Halifax agreed that the advisor had said overpayments 
would be refunded after the new mortgage was in place. It said this was correct, but only on 
the basis there were no further redemption statements. But it said that the advisor should 
have told Mr M that the statement was only valid to the end of the month.
Halifax said it couldnt refund Mr Ms monthly payments because theyd been paid to redeem 
the mortgage, and hed been party to that mortgage. It paid Mr M £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He explained that between November 
2019 and January 2020, hed paid £1,740,06 to a mortgage to which hes no longer a party, 
because Halifax had told him the payments would be refunded after completion, as they 
were made after the redemption figure had been generated. 
Mr M also explained that because of the estrangement, hed had to move out of the property 
in September, but because Halifax had told him the payments would be refunded, he hadnt 
been able to rent a property. He also said that the payments hed made had come off his 
mothers mortgage, and he hadnt agreed to have his payments reducing the balance. He 
asked for the three payments, totalling £1,740.06, to be refunded to him.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said that the payments Mr M made 
werent overpayments but his normal monthly mortgage payments. He recognised that 
Halifax had raised Mr Ms expectations that hed be refunded for the mortgage payments, 
but thought the £150 compensation paid by Halifax was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that at the very least hed expect a refund of the payments made 
between November and January, less the interest which would have accrued, as he was 
aware that would have been charged regardless.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. I explained that the information available to me had been limited, because 
the estrangement meant that Mr Ms mother hadnt consented to this complaint. This meant 
the information Halifax was able to provide couldnt include anything relating to her.
I set out that there were two key parts to Mr Ms complaint:
- Financial loss.  This was that Halifax told Mr M in October that hed receive his 
payments back, when the existing mortgage ended. And as a result of the payments, 
the capital balance on the mortgage was lower when it transferred to the two new 
borrowers than it would have been if he hadnt made them. So the new borrowers 
benefitted from Mr Ms payments.
- Compensation for distress, including financial difficulties. Mr M said that between 
November and January, he couldnt live in the property because of the estrangement, 
but he was paying for the mortgage. He said he wasnt able to rent a property and 
was living out of a bag of clothes in someone elses house. Mr M said this affected 
his personal life, work, and mental and physical problems.What Halifax told Mr M 
The advisers on both calls on 14 and 15 October provided a really poor service to Mr M. Mr 
M remained calm, patient and polite despite his question being repeatedly misunderstood by 
both advisers. As Ive set out above, the 15 October call handler did confirm that Mr H would 
be refunded for the payments.  
Whether there was financial loss as a result of Halifaxs error
Mr M and his mother were jointly responsible for the existing mortgage until the date of the 
transfer in early 2020. So it would never have been correct to say, as the Halifax adviser did, 
that Mr M would be refunded with all of the monthly payments, because he was still liable 
until that mortgage ended. 
I didnt know what arrangement Mr M and his mother had about the mortgage payments 
before the estrangement, nor the content of the December legal agreement between Mr M 
and his mother. From what Mr M told us, it looked as if Mr M might have been paying the full 
amount of the mortgage each month. But I couldnt automatically assume that theyd be 
liable for half each, because both parties to a joint mortgage are jointly and severally liable 
 in other words, either can be held to account for the full amount. So it wasnt possible to 
say, for instance, that Mr M would be entitled to half of his £1,740.06 payments back, on the 
grounds that only half was his responsibility. Until the end of the mortgage, Mr M could be 
held liable for all payments due. So it had been good advice when the third adviser told Mr M 
that if he didnt make the January 2020 payment, it could affect his credit file.
When an employee gives incorrect information, it doesnt follow that the bank is bound to 
carry out what theyve said. To take an extreme example, if an adviser told someone they 
neednt pay any more on their mortgage, the bank couldnt be expected to honour this. So I 
didnt find that Halifax was bound to refund the £1,740.06 because of its advisors error  Mr 
M was jointly and severally liable for the payments.
But I can take account of the financial impact of this error, as Mr M relied on it.
I accepted that Mr Ms belief that hed receive £1,740.06 back, which was based on the 
information from Halifaxs October adviser, would have influenced the figure at which he 
agreed to settle with his estranged mother. On the 19 December call, Mr M said hed signed 
that agreement the previous Monday. It was in that call that the adviser first told Mr M that he 
wouldnt be getting the £1,740.06 back. So Mr M signed the settlement agreement on the 
basis of that incorrect information.
I didnt have details of that legal agreement and, because of the estrangement, it was very 
unlikely that both parties to it would agree to its release. But I considered it was more likely 
than not that Mr M did settle for a figure on the basis that hed be receiving a £1,740.06 
refund from Halifax in due course. So my provisional decision was that I intended to order 
Halifax to refund Mr M £1,740.06, providing that Mr M provides either a copy of the 
agreement, or his qualified solicitor confirms in writing that the settlement figure took this 
expected refund into account.
Distress and inconvenience
I accepted that Mr M had a difficult and unpleasant time in the last few months of the 
mortgage. Any estrangement is stressful, especially between family members. And it would 
have been upsetting and inconvenient to be living out of a bag of clothes in someone elses 
house. But I couldnt find that these problems resulted from Halifaxs advisers mistake. If the 
adviser had been right and Mr M had been entitled to a refund when the mortgage ended in early 2020, Mr M would still have had to deal with not having his own home, in the months 
after he moved out of the home which he and his mother had shared, in September 2019. 
The problem which caused this stress and upset during those months was the 
estrangement. So I didnt consider Halifax should pay Mr M any compensation for that 
period, distressing as Im sure it was for Mr M.
Halifax paid Mr M £150 compensation for the poor customer service which he received on 
the phone calls. Ive listened to the four calls in October and December. Both calls in 
October, and the first December call, were very poor indeed. The advisers repeatedly didnt 
understand Mr Ms clear question, interpreting it in many different ways, all of which were 
wrong. They put him on hold for long periods, but without a proper answer after the holds. 
They simply werent providing an adequate service. Only the final call handler was 
competent. 
So I considered that £150 compensation should be increased to £250 because of the 
extremely poor quality of the customer service on these calls and the impact this will have 
had on him at what was already a distressing time..
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax accepted my provisional decision, subject to receiving the evidence which my 
provisional decision said that Mr M would have to provide.
Mr M replied that he could provide:
- An email from his solicitor requesting removal of his belongings; and 
- An email for a settlement he had to pay.
But he said he had no evidence about the remortgage, to which he wasnt a party, and hed 
only signed one document about the remortgage. He asked what he should provide.
I clarified that what Mr M would have to provide, as evidence of financial loss, was written 
confirmation from his solicitor that the financial agreement signed in December 2019 took 
into account the expectation that Mr M would receive £1,740.06 back from Halifax when the 
mortgage ended.
Mr M replied that hed contacted his solicitor. Mr M said that hed signed the paperwork for 
the balance of the mortgage at the time hed asked Halifax about his payments. But he 
hadnt talked to his solicitor about the return of any future payments. He said that no-one had 
told him there could be a second settlement figure. Mr M suggested that Halifax might have 
a copy of the agreement hed signed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its very unfortunate that Mr M hasnt been able to show written confirmation from his 
solicitor that the financial agreement signed in December 2019 took into account the 
expectation that Mr M would receive £1,740.06 back from Halifax when the mortgage ended. 
Id have expected Mr M and his solicitor to have discussed the figures and to have discussed 
the basis on which those figures had been calculated. 
The settlement figure alone doesnt provide sufficient evidence that Mr M suffered a financial 
loss as a result of Halifaxs incorrect information. Thats because we dont have evidence of 
all the financial factors involved in the dispute between Mr M and his mother  and we cant 
get involved in the detail of that family dispute. What Id have had to see, in order to have independent proof of the basis on which Mr M 
accepted the settlement figure, was written confirmation from his solicitor that the financial 
agreement signed in December 2019 took into account the expectation that Mr M would 
receive a refund from Halifax for monthly payments hed made, which in the event totalled 
£1,740.06, when the mortgage ended. This would have shown that hed accepted less under 
the settlement than hed otherwise have got, on the understanding that his additional 
repayments would be refunded by Halifax. 
As Mr M hasnt been able to provide this evidence, I cant order Halifax to pay him £1,740.06 
for financial loss.
I do, however, order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Mr M a further £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the £150 already paid, 
making £250 in all. This reflects the very poor customer service which Halifaxs three phone 
advisers gave to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I order Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, to pay Mr M a further £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
for its very poor customer service. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman