DRN-4325873
The complaint
Ms D complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Car Insurance (UKI) unfairly 
cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2023, Ms D took out a policy with UKI to start in June 2023. A condition of the policy 
was she needed to download and register on an app that tracked her driving. 
Ms D was sent a welcome email on 24 May. The email explained she was required to 
download and register on the app within the first 7 days of the policy start date. 
As Ms D hadnt done this, UKI sent an email on 29 May reminding Ms D to do this and 
explaining, if she failed to do so, her policy would be cancelled. It also sent a letter on 12 
June which explained Ms Ds policy was going to be cancelled but she could prevent this by 
activating the app and calling UKI before 26 June otherwise itd be cancelled on that date.
As Ms D didnt activate the app and call UKI, her policy was cancelled.
Ms D complained about this to UKI. It didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint, so she brought the 
matter to this service. She feels UKI is at fault here and says the email of 29 May and letter 
of 12 June werent sent as UKI has said. Further, she feels UKI shouldve done more to 
contact her before cancelling the policy given the severity of its impact.
An Investigator looked into matters and felt UKI had acted fairly. So, they didnt uphold Ms 
Ds complaint. Ms D disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must tell Ms D that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policy documents as well as the emails and letters sent by UKI about Ms 
Ds insurance policy. The terms and conditions state the following.
When you purchase your policy, we will send a link to the email address you have 
provided, which will enable you to download the [app]. You will need to follow the 
instructions provided to register your account on the [app]. You must ensure that you 
enable the location services on your mobile device and configure your mobile device 
settings as per the instructions provided upon registration of the [app]. You must 
ensure that you download and register your account on the [app] within 7 days of 
your policy start date or we reserve the right to cancel your policy. This may affect 
your ability to purchase insurance in the future.
The welcome email sent to Ms D on 24 May was clear  Ms D was required to download and 
register on the app as a condition of her policy and a failure to do so may result in her policy 
being cancelled. UKI has also shown Ms D was sent a reminder email about this on 29 May. 
Ms Ds policy, like most other motor insurance policies, allows UKI to cancel it on giving 
seven days notice. It states:
We can cancel the policy at any time if we have a valid reason. If we have to do this, 
well  give you at least 7 days notice. Well send our cancellation notice to the latest 
address we have for you
Well only cancel the policy if we have valid reasons for doing so. For example: 
-If youve failed to co-operate with us, or send us information or documentation as 
described in your policy, and that has affected our ability to process your claim, or 
deal with your policy
As Ms D hadnt downloaded and registered on the app, UKI sent her a cancellation notice on 
12 June in the post. The notification said her policy would be cancelled if she hadnt 
downloaded the app or contacted UKI before 26 June. 
UKI has shown it sent the communications to Ms Ds correct email and postal addresses 
and, from the evidence Ive seen, I dont have any reason to doubt they were sent. I say this 
because the records for the emails and letter she did receive reflect the same information 
and have been recorded on UKIs system in the same way as those she says she didnt. So, 
whilst I understand Ms D says she didnt receive the email of 29 May or letter of 12 June, I 
havent seen any evidence this is because of anything UKI got wrong. Further, Im satisfied 
the sales journey, policy documents and correspondence she acknowledges receiving had 
made it clear the app must be downloaded and registered by Ms D and UKI reserved the 
right to cancel the policy if she didnt.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied UKI acted within the policy terms in cancelling 
Ms Ds policy because of her failure to download and register on the app. And it did so fairly 
and reasonably.
I recognise Ms D will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman