DRN-1848461
The complaint
Mr K says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH), irresponsibly lent to him. He 
says the loans made his financial situation worse and he couldnt afford the repayments, or 
his normal living expenditures, because of the lending. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans LAH provided to Mr K between 
August 2017 and August 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 16/08/2017 £750 45 02/05/2018
2 13/12/2017 £750 45 17/10/2018
3 02/05/2018 £750 45 19/12/2018
4 19/12/2018 £2,000 45 07/08/2019
5 07/08/2019 £2,250 46 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint and thought the loans 5 and 6 shouldnt have been 
given. LAH disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr K could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ive considered the pattern of lending up to loan 4 and I think this lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be unsustainable. So I 
think LAH was irresponsible to continue lending after this point.
Ive considered the points LAH made in response to the adjudicators view. It says Mr Ks 
reliance on credit, both with LAH and externally, seemed to be reducing. And his income 
may have increased. 
But these arent new points  and they arent borne out by the lending pattern. As can be 
seen in the table above Mr K took loan 4 straight after repaying loan 3. And hed only just 
repaid loans 1 and 2. And the amount borrowed for loan 4 was significantly higher than the 
earlier loans. There were no breaks in the lending. 
So it looks to me like his financial situation was worsening and his need for credit was 
increasing. I dont think its been demonstrated that the lending from December 2018 was 
sustainable. Because of this the points raised by LAH havent changed my decision and Im 
upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Mr K loans 4 and 5.
If LAH has sold the outstanding debts LAH should buy these back if LAH is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy the debts back then LAH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything LAH 
has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr K originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr K having made 
overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal LAH has 
already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr K. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then LAH should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr K. LAH shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
LAH has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ks credit file. 
LAH do not have to remove loan 5 from Mr Ks credit file until these have been repaid, but 
LAH should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give Mr 
K a certificate showing how much tax LAH has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman