DRN-2381890
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Allianz Insurance Plc which provides her with insurance for her 
business, which Ill refer to as H. Money was stolen from Hs safe during a burglary and 
Allianz has declined to provide settlement in respect of this loss (it has settled for other 
losses resulting from the burglary). 
What happened
Hs premises were burgled in 2018. Ms S had put some money in the safe just prior to the 
burglary  as it was a bank holiday weekend shed been unable to bank it. Ms S made a 
claim to Allianz. Ultimately Allianz settled for much of the claim. But regarding the money in 
the safe, it felt Ms S hadnt evidenced that the money was most likely in there at the time of 
the burglary. Ms S provided Allianz with some further evidence of the transaction that led to 
the cash being placed in the safe. Allianz said there was no evidence in the business 
records of this transaction having taken place and it would expect it to have been recorded.  
Allianz said it was satisfied this element of the claim had been correctly declined.
Ms S complained to this service. And she provided further evidence. But our investigator 
wasnt persuaded Ms S had evidenced a loss from the safe. As such she felt it wasnt 
reasonable to require Allianz to settle this part of the claim. Ms S asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is an upsetting and frustrating situation for Ms S. But I can reasonably 
fault Allianz for wanting to see proof that satisfies it that this loss occurred. That isnt to say it 
thinks Ms S is lying, although I understand that for Ms S, this level of scrutiny and continued 
denial of this part of her claim, makes her feel this is the case. 
The difficulty for Ms S is that she has to be able to show that its most likely that the money 
was in the safe when the safe was stolen. Her testimony alone isnt sufficient to show that. It 
isnt unreasonable for Allianz to want to see corroborative evidence. And I dont think Allianz 
view that a transaction of this size should have some proper record on the business 
accounts, or at least within data kept by the business, is an unreasonable one for it to hold. 
And I note that whilst Allianz hasnt strictly referred to it, regarding money in the safe, the 
policy does require that proper records are kept. 
Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms S, Im not persuaded the evidence that 
shes been able to provide amounts to a proper record of the cash claimed for. This means 
I cant reasonably say that Allianz acted unfairly when it declined this part of the claim. As 
such I also cant reasonably require Allianz to provide settlement to Ms S in respect of this 
part of the claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman