DRN-2933727
The complaint
Ms C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc mishandled her claim on a motor
insurance policy.
What happened
On 8 January 2018, Ms C got a new vehicle on a lease agreement with a lease company.
She had to make lease payments of about £300.00 per month.
For the year from March 2020, Ms C used a comparison website and took out an RSA policy
for the vehicle. She correctly stated that the owner of the car was a lease company. In
answer to a question about the registered keeper of the car, Ms C incorrectly stated that she
was the registered keeper.
On about 9 November 2020, Ms C reported that someone had taken her car. The lease
company asked her for a lease settlement figure of about £25,000.00. Ms C made a claim to
RSA for that amount (and for some personal belongings). In the meantime, she had to carry
on making the lease payments even though she no longer had the vehicle.
On 18 November 2020, RSA declined the claim, saying that if it had known the lease
company was the registered keeper, it wouldnt have given Ms C cover. Ms C complained to
RSA. On 24 November 2020, RSA wrote a final response turning down the complaint. Ms C
brought her complaint to us a couple of weeks later.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He referred to
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He thought that
Ms C had taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. He thought that there
hadnt been a qualifying misrepresentation as he didnt think the incorrect answer was
deliberate. He said that the car dealership had given Ms C a Keeper Input Form that asked
her to complete her details under a section headed Registered Keeper Detail.
The investigator recommended that RSA should reassess the claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms C 
and to RSA on 6 July 2021. I summarise my findings:
Following the theft of the car - Ms C has suffered financial loss and inconvenience. 
But  keeping in mind that RSA wouldnt have issued a policy at all  I wasnt minded 
to find that RSA treated Ms C unfairly by treating her policy as void from the start
and declining to pay her claim.
Subject to any further information from Ms C or from RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
RSA hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Ms C disagrees with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
Section 2(2) of CIDRA 2012 requires the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. Section 3 of CIDRA 2012 provides 
clarification as to what may, or may not, constitute reasonable care (emphasis 
added):
3 Reasonable care
(1) Whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation is to be determined in the light of all the relevant 
circumstances.
(2) The following are examples of things which may need to be taken into account in 
making a determination under subsection (1)-
(a) the type of consumer insurance contract in question, and its target market,
(b) any relevant explanatory material or publicity produced or authorised by the 
insurer,
(c) how clear, and how specific, the insurer's questions were,
(d) in the case of a failure to respond to the insurer's questions in connection 
with the renewal or variation of a consumer insurance contract, how clearly the 
insurer communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the 
possible consequences of failing to do so),
(e) whether or not an agent was acting for the consumer.
(3) The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer: but this is 
subject to subsections (4) and (5).
(4) If the insurer was, or ought to have been, aware of any particular characteristics 
or circumstances of the actual consumer, those are to be taken into account.
(5) A misrepresentation made dishonestly is always to be taken as showing lack of 
reasonable care.
She took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. The FOS website makes 
clear that:
"Customers are only expected to answer questions to the best of their knowledge 
and belief. In some cases, it might not be reasonable to expect a customer to know 
the answer to a question at all. But the customer still has to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation. So, if a customer is unsure of the answer to a
question, it's reasonable to expect them to find out the answer. "
In assessing whether or not she took reasonable care, there was no burden on her 
as a consumer to make enquiries of a third party to identify who held the V5 in 
circumstances where:
a. She had drawn a reasonable conclusion from the paperwork in her possession 
that she was the registered keeper;
b. It does not follow that she would realise that a responsibility for taxing a vehicle 
was indicative of who held the V5: independent research (for example, via google) 
would have indicated to her that she was the registered keeper in circumstances 
where she was responsible for service and MOT of the vehicle. 
Further, it is a reasonable presumption that the lease company taxed the vehicle on 
her behalf as owner of the vehicle.There was therefore nothing to put her on notice that she might not be the registered 
keeper. She was not ''unsure", all the information available to her indicated that she 
was the registered keeper. She had a reasonable basis for her belief and nothing to 
contradict it. The passage of time since she took out the initial lease agreement does 
nothing to alter this. In light of the information she had, and the circumstances she 
was in, it was the most reasonable conclusion to draw.
Further, she did not make a qualifying misrepresentation because:
a. Her misrepresentation was not in breach of the section 2(2) duty, as set out above;
and
b. The eligibility document disclosed by RSA was not a document available to her, or
any consumer prior to taking out the insurance policy.
Section 4 of CIDRA 2012 provides:
4 Qualifying misrepresentations: definition and remedies
(1) An insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by the 
consumer before a consumer insurance contract was entered into or varied only if-
(a) the consumer made the misrepresentation in breach of the duty set out in section 
2(2), and
(b) the insurer shows that without the misrepresentation, that insurer would not have 
entered into the contract (or agreed to the variation) at all, or would have done so 
only on different terms.
Section 3 of the RSA policy document states (insofar as is relevant to this claim):
"How we will settle a claim under Sections 2 and 3 ...
C. Hiring and other agreements
If we are aware that you are paying/or your car by hire purchase or under a leasing 
agreement we will either:
Pay the cost of replacement to any company to which you are liable under the hire 
purchase or leasing agreement. "
On a plain reading of Section 3 of the RSA policy document, no distinction can be 
drawn as to whether or not the leasing company was, or was not, the registered 
keeper, particularly when the specific questionnaire which she had answered on the 
comparison website asked for her confirmation that the owner of the vehicle was the 
lease company. A plain reading of the policy document provides for a pay out in the 
circumstances in which her leased vehicle was stolen.
Neither Section 3 of the RSA policy document, which is the consumer-facing 
document, nor the comparison website platform made clear that RSA would not offer 
insurance in circumstances where the policy holder was not the registered keeper.
The investigator/ombudsman was shown the underlying eligibility criteria, which is a
document she had never seen before. It is not available to consumers, nor was it 
clear within the consumer RSA documentation, or the comparison website 
documentation, that it was a fundamental requirement that the policyholder should be 
the registered keeper. This creates an unfairness to the consumer. The materiality of 
the registered keeper question (i.e. it not being an acceptable risk "full stop") was 
never made clear. If this were a fundamental term to the cover being provided, that 
should have been made clear within the process of applying for insurance. RSA' s 
failure to do so has exposed her to huge financial loss and, at the time the policy was 
taken out, denied her and other consumers the opportunity to take out insurance 
cover from a provider who would have offered cover in both situations. Thisunfairness is particularly pronounced in circumstances where she took out cover via 
a comparison website. If this information had been made clear a reasonable 
consumer would have made a different choice of cover.
Finally, RSA have said that it would be unfair for them to pick up the claim for 
something they would not have offered cover for in the first place, and that therefore 
the risk was not acceptable to them. By any objective standard, the risk to the insurer 
in relation to this claim is no different in circumstances where she is, or is not, the 
registered keeper. She insured the correct vehicle, against the correct loss, at the 
correct address, under the correct name, declaring that the lease company owned 
the vehicle. She made an innocent and reasonable misrepresentation about who 
holds the V5 form, which does not bear on the risk underwritten by the insurer, i.e. 
the risk of theft of the vehicle in question.
In these circumstances, it is unfair to deny her the remedy set out m the initial 
recommendation of the investigator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law (including CIDRA), regulation and good practice.
I accept that in 2018, the car dealer had given Ms C a Keeper Input Form that required
her to give her personal details.
I accept that Ms C was responsible for paying a garage to service the car.
The comparison website asked Ms C questions including the following:
Whose name is on the registration document?
And an information button made clear that the registration document was the V5 issued by
DVLA. So Im satisfied that the question was clear and specific.
Ms C answered that her name was on the registration document. That wasnt correct. The
V5 said the lease company was the registered keeper.
Ms C later said she hadnt seen the V5. But shed had the vehicle for over two years during
which DVLA mustve sent the registered keeper (the lease company) reminders about road 
tax for the vehicle.
Notwithstanding the Keeper Input Form, I consider that Ms C had had ample time to
realise that she wasnt the registered keeper. So I find that  in all the relevant 
circumstances - Ms C didnt take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation.
Section 3 of the policy dealt with claims for fire and theft. The policy terms included the
following:
How we will settle a claim under Sections 2 and 3
C. Hiring and other agreements
If we are aware that you are paying for your car by hire purchase or under a
leasing agreement we will either:
 pay the cost of replacement to any company to which you are liable under the hirepurchase or leasing agreement.
If you have the right to keep your car at the end of the agreement and the amount
you owe is less than the proceeds of your claim, we will pay you the difference.
 replace your car if we have the permission of the company from which you are
buying or leasing your car to do so.
From that, I find that RSA had written its policy contemplating that the policyholder might be
leasing the insured car from a leasing company. But I dont find that a lease agreement
meant that the leasing company would be the registered keeper.
RSA has said that if Ms C had correctly answered the question about the registered keeper,
it wouldnt have offered cover at all. Its final response included the following:
The eligibility criteria clearly show that we do not provide cover where policies are in
the name of companies or lease companies. These vehicles are deemed as
unacceptable risk to be covered meaning that we do not cover this type of vehicle
ownership. Based on this we have acted according to our underwriting criteria.
So the investigator asked to see the RSAs eligibility criteria or underwriting criteria. In
response, RSA has shown us an extract as follows:
A risk will be acceptable where the vehicle is owned and registered for licensing
purposes:-
1 in the name of the Policyholder, or in the name of the Policyholders Spouse, Civil
Partner or Life Partner (NB the Spouse, Civil Partner or Life Partner does not have to
be a named driver on the policy), or in the name of the Policyholders Parent, Step
Parent or Foster Parent (NB the Parent, Step Parent or Foster Parent does not have
to be a named driver on the policy), or in both the names of the Policyholder and the
Policyholders Spouse, Civil Partner, Life Partner or Parent, if the vehicle is jointly 
owned 
Where lease company is the owner of the vehicle but the keeper is one of the
acceptable options above N.B Policies in the name of a company remain
unacceptable. Vehicles owned or registered in the name of 'Other' will not be
acceptable. Vehicles on contract hire or rental will be considered, but must be
referred to Motor U/W.
I dont think those criteria were available  or intended - for consumers to read. On balance, I
consider that the criteria support RSAs position that it wouldnt have offered a policy to a
driver of a vehicle of which a lease company was both the owner and registered keeper. So 
 notwithstanding that Ms C didnt know of the criteria - I find that Ms C had made a 
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA Section 4.
I acknowledge that  following the theft of the car - Ms C has suffered financial loss and
inconvenience. But  keeping in mind that without the misrepresentation RSA wouldnt have 
issued a policy at all  I dont find that RSA treated Ms C unfairly by treating her policy as 
void from the start and declining to pay her claim.
RSA has said that it refunded the premium. Ms C hasnt said otherwise. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct RSA to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman