DRN-3721647
The complaint
Mr H complains that, in 1998, National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account (PBA). Mr H says NatWest said he had to have the PBA, if he wanted the overdraft 
he was applying for. 
What happened
Mr H had had a bank account with NatWest since 1988. This was at first an ordinary, fee 
free account. In October 1998 the account changed to an Advantage Gold account. This was 
a PBA which, at the time, cost £8 a month. The account came with a package of benefits, 
including worldwide family travel insurance (if the travel ticket or accommodation was bought 
with the NatWest account card) extended warranties, purchase protection and card 
protection. It also included discounts on overdraft rates and on home insurance, and 
eligibility for a Visa Gold card with a minimum credit limit of £3,000. (Other benefits were 
added in later years, such as car breakdown and mobile phone insurance.)
In July 2015, NatWest told its customers it was changing its range of products and would be 
changing the Advantage Gold account over to a Select Premium account, which was similar. 
This wasnt a sale, as it was an administrative migration of accounts. 
Mr H says he needed a £5,000 overdraft in 1998. He says the NatWest manager told him 
the only way he could have the overdraft was by taking the PBA. Mr Hs representative says 
Mr H took the account under duress. He says Mr H had no use for the other benefits. He 
said the overdraft didnt last long, but Mr H found it difficult to cancel the ongoing account 
fee, and that this was taken from his account for over twenty years. 
Im looking only at whether the PPI was mis-sold  that is to say, what happened in October 
1998. If Mr H believes he was later unfairly prevented from cancelling his account fee, he 
would need to make a separate complaint.  
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint about 
the mis-sale shouldnt be upheld. Mr H didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The main problem is that this all happened about 24 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember the detail of everything that happened that long 
ago. It is possible that they are remembering everything, but Im also aware that two 
people can have different recollections of the same conversation. So it may not be fair to 
rely only on what someone now remembers.  
Also, where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt 
usually be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it 
was several years ago.
And the evidence from NatWest is that Mr H had already made successful overdraft 
applications before October 1998. This was in the years when he had an ordinary 
account, before the Advantage Gold account started. 
NatWest records say Mr H successfully applied in October 1998 for the overdraft to be 
increased from £200 to £1,000 (although Mr H is saying he remembers it as £5,000). But 
NatWest records show that Mr H also was given a £1,000 overdraft from September 1993 
to May 1997. 
So this does suggest Mr H would have known he could get a significant overdraft even 
with his fee-free account.  I realise he may have been told something different when he 
went back for an increase in October 1998. But I also cant be sure that NatWest didnt 
just point out the reduced interest rates with the Advantage Gold account, and the other 
benefits that came with the account; and whether Mr H has now forgotten that this was 
the reason he took the account. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mr Hs complaint on the point 
about duress. 
Ive checked whether there are other reasons for saying the account was mis-sold.
For example, it might have been mis-sold if NatWest made the customer believe it had 
checked their circumstances and was saying the account fitted their needs well. Or if 
NatWest didnt give enough information for the customer to make an informed decision. 
Again there is the problem that this happened so long ago, and theres no real evidence to 
show what happened. 
NatWest said it didnt make a formal recommendation. But, even if it had, I wouldnt have 
decided that a recommendation was inappropriate. Mr H could potentially have used the 
main features, such as the lower-interest overdraft and the travel insurance. It would then 
have been up to him to decide if, for him, the features and the convenience of a single 
package were worth the monthly cost. 
I also cant know what information NatWest gave Mr H. But the packaged account was 
fairly simple at the time, so I think its likely the main features were explained  and, 
because it was a fairly straightforward package, fuller information probably wouldnt have 
changed whether Mr H took the account. (This is assuming he was given a choice, which I 
accept he is saying he wasnt really.) 
Overall, I cant say that the account was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman