DRN-3077219
The complaint
Miss F complains about the service she received from Nationwide Building Society in 
relation to two loan agreements she held.
 
What happened
Miss F has two personal loans with Nationwide. They were taken out in December 2019 and 
January 2020 respectively. In April 2020 Miss F began to experience financial difficulty as a 
result of reduced income due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So she contacted Nationwide, who 
agreed a three-month payment break for both loans, in line with temporary guidance issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This was later extended by a further three months, 
meaning no payments were due on Miss Fs loans up until, and including, September 2020. 
In August 2020, Miss F realised she wouldnt be returning to work in September as expected, 
so she contacted Nationwide, who agreed a nil payment plan for a further three months 
meaning her next payments wouldnt be due until January 2021. And in January 2021, 
following the plan, Miss F contacted Nationwide to explain she wanted to get back to making 
monthly payments. But she said the arrears were too high to clear, and the monthly 
payments difficult to meet. So, she asked if she could merge the loans together.
Nationwide agreed to this, and said it wouldnt affect her credit file, and agreed a time and 
date to call her back to arrange it. But the call never went ahead as agreed, and a number of 
further arranged calls also didnt materialise. Instead, Nationwide continued to chase her for 
the arrears on the loans. So, unhappy with the service she received, Miss F complained. 
She said she was unhappy she was chased for a debt when Nationwide had made promises 
to amalgamate the loans, but hadnt done so, and she was unhappy with the impact the 
matter has had on her credit file. She said it prevented her from changing her car for a 
cheaper one on finance. Shes also unhappy Nationwide mentioned they would call the 
police during one of the calls. She feels the overall compensation offered is too low. 
Nationwide considered Miss Fs complaint. They agreed they provided poor service, and 
apologised for not having called when they said they would. They also accepted theyd 
agreed to stop the arrears calls on her account, but these had continued incorrectly. They 
also said that when Miss F called in January, they shouldve explained that re-writing her 
loans wasnt possible, as shed previously been on a nil payment plan. 
So in an attempt to resolve the complaint, Nationwide agreed again to amalgamate the 
loans, which they actioned in March 2021. And they agreed to remove any adverse 
information relating to payments due between December 2020 and March 2021 from 
Miss Fs credit file. They also paid her £300 in compensation. They also explained that the 
reason they mentioned calling the police was because Miss F had mentioned feeling 
suicidal. And they said that if Miss F was alone, they had a safeguarding responsibility to 
report the matter. But as she had someone with her, in the end, this wasnt necessary. 
But Miss F said the £300 was insufficient compensation to reflect the severe distress the 
matter had caused her, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Since the complaints been with us, Nationwide paid a further £75 compensation in relation 
to the removal of the adverse information, as they feel they could have done more to monitor 
whether this had been actioned.
An investigator considered Miss Fs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
she accepted errors had been made on Nationwides part, and that four call-backs had been 
agreed to discuss the merging of the loans that didnt materialise. She also thought 
Nationwide provided poor service in continuing to chase Miss F in relation to the arrears on 
her account, when theyd previously agreed to call her to merge her loans  which wouldve, 
in the process, removed those arrears.
 
But the investigator said that while thered been several errors on Nationwides part, she felt 
their offer to; remove any adverse information relating to the December 2020 to March 2021 
payments from Miss Fs credit file; and paying her £300 in compensation, which they later 
increased to £375, was a fair resolution to her complaint. She also said that while shed been 
unable to listen to all of the calls, Nationwides notes showed that the comments regarding 
calling the police, related to remarks Miss F had made about feeling suicidal. And she said 
she was satisfied Nationwide wouldve had a duty to do refer the matter to the police if she 
was alone in such circumstances. So she didnt recommend Nationwide do anything more. 
But Miss F remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking first at the missed appointments. I appreciate this would have been frustrating for 
Miss F. She had made a call in January 2021 and had assurances from Nationwide that they 
would call her to arrange merging her loans. And Nationwide agreed on at least four 
occasions to call back and discuss this with Miss F, but this didnt happen. So to be 
continually chased for the arrears on her account instead, I can imagine must have been 
distressing for Miss F.
 
Nationwide have explained that they agreed to stop calls from their collections department 
while they were arranging for Miss Fs loans to be merged. But they said that wasnt set up 
correctly on their systems, which meant the calls continued. They apologised and accepted 
this was an error on their part, and have since amalgamated the two loans  this was 
finalised in March. But I agree that Nationwide were at fault here (as they have accepted), 
and that the numerous calls Miss F received wouldve been particularly distressing. So I 
think she should be compensated for this. 
Looking at the impact this matter has had on Miss Fs credit file, it seems that late payments 
were recorded against her for the months of January, February and March 2021. This has 
had a negative impact on Miss Fs credit file in general, and more specifically, Miss Fs 
explained that this prevented her taking out new car finance to reduce her outgoings when 
she was struggling. 
Nationwide have again accepted that the adverse information recorded against her during 
this period would likely have not occurred, had they called her back and amalgamated her 
loans when theyd agreed to. So they have instructed the credit reference agencies to 
remove any adverse information from Miss Fs credit file relating to this period
 I appreciate it wouldve been stressful for Miss F to have had had her credit file negatively 
impacted at this time. Especially when she was already struggling to meet her credit 
obligations. So Im pleased to see Nationwide have taken steps to reverse this, and they 
should ensure this is actioned. But I think this issue wouldve also added further to the stress 
Miss F was experiencing at this time, and for this I think she should be compensated.
Miss F has said that the adverse information recorded on her credit file also prevented her 
from buying a different, cheaper car on finance. 
I havent seen anything directly linking the missed Nationwide payments and subsequent 
drop in credit score to Miss F not being able to obtain further finance. But I can see that her 
credit score did reduce significantly around the time of these missed payments. And I think 
its likely this reduction wouldve had an impact on any credit applications she made. So Ill 
take this into account when considering compensation. 
Miss F has also complained that the advisors she spoke with were particularly difficult, and 
said that one had threatened to call the police on her and fill out an abuse form. 
Nationwide however, have said that during this particular call, Miss F was very distressed, 
and that she made comments relating to suicide. Theyve said that in such instances, they 
have a safeguarding responsibility, and are required to make a safeguarding call to the 
police if that person is alone, to ensure their safety. They said that in this instance, it was 
confirmed that Miss F was not alone, so they didnt proceed with the call. But they said that 
they were acting in Miss Fs best interests. 
I accept this was a stressful time for Miss F, and that being told by Nationwide that the police 
may be called, would have likely startled her. But in instances such as this, where I think its 
more likely than not that Nationwide had a genuine safeguarding concern, banks and 
financial institutions do have a duty of care, and are expected to notify authorities if they feel 
a customer may be putting either themselves or someone else at risk of harm. So, Ive not 
upheld this element of Miss Fs complaint, as I think Nationwides acted reasonably. 
Its clear that this has been a stressful time for Miss F. And its clear that despite her 
struggles, she was making every attempt to contact Nationwide and maintain her payments 
where possible. She was also proactive in making several calls to Nationwide when they 
failed to attend the appointments theyd arranged, to try to ensure the matter didnt have any 
further impact on her credit file. 
But Nationwide have taken steps to put Miss Fs credit file back in order. And they have also 
paid her £375 to compensate her for the distress this matter caused. So while distressing, 
and there have been failings on Nationwides part, having taken everything into account, I 
think the amount Nationwide have paid Miss F, fairly compensates her for the distress and 
inconvenience they have caused. So Im not instructing them to do anything more. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think her complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Brad McIlquhamOmbudsman