DRN-2841304
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) poor customer service, under her 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs G s contacted Aviva as her boiler developed a fault. It sent an engineer, who Mrs G 
said told her that the boiler needed one replacement part. The engineer didnt carry out a 
repair at the time and left. When Mrs G hadnt heard from Aviva for over a week, she 
contacted them. 
It was at this point that Aviva told Mrs G that her boiler had a few issues and it deemed the 
boiler beyond economical repair (BER). In line with the terms and conditions of her policy, 
Aviva said it would cover the cost of a new boiler, but Mrs G would have to pay for the 
installation cost. 
Mrs G wasnt happy that she would have to pay for the installation cost and that it was likely 
that there would be additional delays in getting the boiler installed, so she arranged for an 
independent engineer to install a new boiler. 
Mrs G complained to Aviva, as she was unhappy that it had advised her that her boiler was 
BER and that it didnt tell her sooner. Also, that she hadnt received an annual service as per 
her policy terms. 
In its final response, Aviva ultimately accepted that its standard of service wasnt as it 
wouldve liked, due to the delays and not telling Mrs G sooner that her boiler was BER. It 
confirmed that under the terms and conditions of the policy, it would replace the boiler free of 
charge, but Mrs G would be responsible for the installation cost. 
Aviva apologised for its poor service and offered to refund the cost of the annual service as 
well as a goodwill gesture payment of £368, as this was the cost it wouldve incurred, had it 
replaced the boiler. 
Mrs G was unhappy by the outcome and so referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Aviva did get things wrong, but it offered to put them right by offering to refund the 
cost of the annual service and providing a cash settlement of £368, which wouldve been 
what it wouldve cost them to replace the boiler. She thought the offer was fair and 
reasonable and there was nothing further she could ask Aviva to do. 
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator. She said that if she had waited for Aviva to replace 
her boiler, it wouldve taken a long time and for this Aviva should offer her more 
compensation. She felt that she didnt get an apology from Aviva and she thought it made 
the offer too quickly. She did ask if Aviva could send her the £368 it offered. And she asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mrs G, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
My role is to determine whether Aviva acted fairly towards Mrs G in dealing with her claim. 
To this end, I think the main issues are whether Aviva wouldve delayed installing the 
replacement boiler and whether its offer of £368 is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs G said that if she had waited for Aviva to replace her boiler there wouldve been 
unnecessary delays. Aviva has apologised for the delay that Mrs G experienced and it 
acknowledged that it shouldve informed Mrs G sooner that her boiler was BER. 
I understand why the delay wouldve been a worry for Mrs G. But my role is to look at what 
happened and not to speculate on a future event that may or may not happen. I can see that 
Aviva acknowledged the delay as well as recognised that its engineer likely gave Mrs G 
incorrect information. For those errors, it offered a goodwill gesture of £368. Which it 
confirmed was the amount it would cost Aviva, to replace Mrs Gs boiler. 
I have next considered whether Avivas offer of £368 is fair. I understand that Mrs G is 
seeking a greater amount of compensation as she believed that Aviva hadnt treated her 
properly, nor had it apologised, and it made the offer too quickly. 
I have reviewed the evidence and dealing with whether Aviva had apologised to Mrs G, I can 
see that in its final response it apologised a few times for the poor service Mrs G 
experienced. So, I cant agree that Aviva didnt apologise to Mrs G. 
Mrs G said that Aviva made its goodwill gesture too quickly and the amount should be 
increased. I have looked at the complaint notes as well as the final response letter.  The 
complaint notes and the final response letter showed that Avivas goodwill gesture offer was 
made after its final response had been issued and at least two weeks after Mrs G initially 
complained. I can see that Aviva had been investigating Mrs Gs complaint. Consequently, I 
do think Aviva did consider Mrs Gs complaint before it made the offer and so I dont agree 
that it made the offer too quickly. 
Finally, I have looked at whether the goodwill gesture of £368 was fair. I asked Aviva how it 
arrived at the figure of £368. It said that the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy provided 
that if a boiler was deemed BER, Avivas responsibility under the policy was to pay for the 
cost of a new boiler. Mrs Gs obligation would be to pay for the installation cost of the 
replacement boiler, if she wished Aviva to supply a new boiler.
Mrs G believes that she ought to be paid more. Aviva said that because it buys boilers in 
bulk this attracts discounts from its suppliers. So, it offered the full cost of the boiler that it 
wouldve paid, for Mrs Gs replacement boiler. In the circumstances, I dont think that Aviva 
were unreasonable in relying on the terms and conditions of the policy, when it offered the 
£368. And I dont think the amount offered was unfair.  
Overall, I think Aviva acted fairly when it relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The offer of £368 by way of a goodwill gesture is fair. Aviva has confirmed it has raised the 
payment to be credited to Mrs G. If Mrs G hasnt received it, I recommend that she contact Aviva to arrange payment, as I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £368 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman