DRN-2007805
The complaint
Mrs M says Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Mrs M says she took the loan to repay other lending. She says the loan was 
unaffordable for her and she repaid it early by taking out further borrowing therefore leaving 
her with more debt.  
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Savvy provided to Mrs M in April 2019. Mrs M borrowed 
£2,010 which was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly repayments of £151.39. Mrs M 
repaid the loan in full in July 2019. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They thought that the checks carried out by 
Savvy didnt give any cause for concern that would suggest it should carry out further 
checks. The adjudicator didnt think it would have been proportionate for Savvy to have 
asked for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable for her.
Mrs M asked for her complaint to be review by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Savvy has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to the loan. This included a 
credit check, a creditworthiness check and an automated income validation check. Savvy 
has also been able to give us a copy of the call recording of the underwriting conversation it 
had with Mrs M in advance of agreeing to provide the loan. 
During that call Mrs M confirmed she was employed, and her monthly income was £1,600. 
She also received further a further monthly income payment of £450 from a war pension. 
Mrs M confirmed her expenditure each month was around £1,500. This left Mrs M with a 
disposable income each month of around £550. So, on the face of it the lending would 
appear affordable on a pounds and pence basis and it wasnt unreasonable for Savvy to 
have agreed to lend to Mrs M. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate after taking into account the term of the loan. But I 
dont think there was anything in the information that Mrs M provided to Savvy which would 
have caused it to be concerned that she was having problems managing her finances.
Its possible that Mrs Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information Savvy obtained. Mrs M has told us she 
didnt make any false representation regarding her income and expenditure. And Savvy was 
able to validate all of the information she gave so this seems likely. But if her circumstances 
were different Mrs Ms actual financial position may well have been more apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. 
Mrs M has provided us with a copy of her own credit report and its possible the information 
on that report was different from the information Savvy saw on its own credit report. But 
neither report shows that Mrs M had any county court judgments, was in an individual 
voluntary arrangement or other insolvency. And I note that during the underwriting call 
Savvys representative did ask about other borrowing and also about a credit card debt that 
was being repaid with a payment arrangement. Mrs M explained how this had arisen when 
her husband lost his job, but the debt was being paid off in accordance with the payment 
plan and wasnt showing any arrears. Savvy could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. That 
information  and the fact the loan was at the beginning of the lending relationship  I dont 
think indicated there was a greater risk of the loan being unaffordable or unsustainable for 
Mrs M. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Savvy needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mrs M for evidence of her income and outgoings 
which Savvy could have gathered from her bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by Savvy 
before it lent to Mrs M. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led Savvy 
to conclude that it should decline Mrs Ms application for the loan. And there isnt anything to 
have prompted it to ask for more information about Mrs M. So, I dont think Savvy was wrong 
to have provided this loan, based solely on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Savvy did for the loan was 
proportionate and the lending looked affordable for Mrs M. I think Savvys decision to lend to 
Mrs M wasnt unreasonable. 
I appreciate my conclusion to Mrs Ms complaint will be a disappointment to her. But I hope I 
have managed to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman