DRN-3277276
The complaint
Mr L complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) handling and value of his 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L had a leak at his home and raised a claim with Fairmead. After accepting the claim 
Fairmead, offered Mr L a settlement of £1,308.36. Mr L told Fairmead that this wasnt 
enough to complete the required works. So Fairmead asked Mr L to get his own quotes for 
the work. It also instructed another surveyor to compile a scope of works. 
Mr L told Fairmead that he suffered from health issues and this was noted.
Following Fairmeads surveyors report, it offered Mr L £3,000 for the works. But Mr Ls own 
quote came in at £3,500. Mr L complained to Fairmead about the handling (as he had had to 
chase on occasions) and the value of the claim. Also, his original contractor could no longer 
do the work and his new contractor provided an increased quote of £6,200. 
In its final response, Fairmead said that the quote Mr L had obtained from his contractor had 
been excessive and it had relied upon its surveyors report when determining the value of 
the claim. In addition, Mr L hadnt provided any evidence to support why the quote was as 
high as it was. And because of this the settlement offer it had offered Mr L was fair. 
Mr L was given his referral rights and he referred a complaint to this service.  Following his 
referral, Fairmead offered to settle the claim by paying the total repair costs of £6,200 as well 
as £200 for the trouble and upset it caused and a further £200, disturbance allowance. 
Mr L remained upset with the amount of compensation Fairmead offered. So, one of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. His view was 
that Mr L had experienced substantial distress and Fairmeads mistake had a significant 
impact on his day to day life. He recommended that Fairmead increase the distress and 
inconvenience award by a further £200. 
Fairmead accepted his view, Mr L did not. He said that Fairmead hadnt offered him 
alternative accommodation, he had been treated badly by Fairmead. And that there was 
extra work that he had had to pay for. He didnt tell Fairmead about this extra work as he 
didnt want the additional stress and upset, given his health issues. So, he asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint, which I think Mr L will be disappointed 
with. But I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr L held a home insurance policy with Fairmead. A leak occurred in his home and 
Fairmead accepted the claim. Initially, Fairmead offered a cash settlement that Mr L said 
didnt cover the full cost of the repairs that were required. Following Mr L being given his 
referral rights, Fairmead increased its offer to cover the full cost of £6,200, which is the 
amount that Mr Ls contractor quoted for the repairs. And I think Fairmead were fair to offer 
to pay the full cost of the repairs.
The main issue of this complaint is whether Fairmead ought to have offered Mr L alternative 
accommodation given the condition of his home due to the leak. And whether Fairmead 
ought to consider the extra work that Mr L had to undertake to complete the repairs of the 
leak. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and I can see that alternative 
accommodation is permitted. I asked Fairmead why it hadnt offered Mr L alternative 
accommodation, as the policy allowed. It said that having reviewed the reinstatement works 
that took place, alternative accommodation shouldve been considered. Which it accepted 
wasnt done at the time. 
But, Fairmead said that retrospectively, it did take the provision of alternative 
accommodation into account and initially offered £200 by way of a disturbance allowance. In 
addition, it offered a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Moreover, it 
accepted our investigators recommendation to increase the compensation by a further 
£200. So, in total, the amount offered for the disturbance allowance and the compensation 
for distress and inconvenience caused was £600. 
I have to consider whether this amount was fair in the circumstances. Mr L said that as a 
result of the leak, he had no heating and hot water for about three weeks. He also said that 
he and his family felt uncomfortable and stressed. And their many ailments, were 
exacerbated by having lived in the home due to the condition of their home. 
I have carefully reviewed the contact notes and claim file. And although Mr L said that he 
had suffered from loss heat and hot water for three weeks, there is no evidence that 
suggests that Mr L told Fairmead or any of their agents that he was without heating and hot 
water. 
I also asked Fairmead to check whether Mr L advised them that he was without heating and 
hot water. It said that that there wasnt anything categoric to show that Mr L had told it or its 
agents that he was without these utilities. 
Moreover, Fairmead confirmed that the repair to fix the leak wouldve been Mr Ls 
responsibility. So, I think that once the leak had been repaired by Mr L, this possibly couldve 
meant that the time without heating and hot water wouldve been reduced. 
Mr L said that he also had pets living with him. He told Fairmead that he wouldnt have 
placed the pets elsewhere, so potentially, this couldve caused an issue with securing 
alternative accommodation. Ultimately, Fairmead has accepted that there wouldve been a 
level of disruption , given the nature of the incident, but to say how long the disruption lasted, 
it couldnt confirm this as Mr L was responsible for the repair of the leak. And this wouldve 
impacted on the provision of heating and hot water. 
Mr L has mentioned that he and his family suffered from health issues, which Fairmead 
noted.  I asked Mr L to provide evidence that showed the effect this incident had on his and his familys health. Mr L said that a charge would be made for his doctor to write a letter. But 
it was suggested that he could download the information, without charge, from the health 
service. But this also wasnt provided.  In the absence of any supporting evidence from Mr L, 
I am unable to reasonably ask Fairmead to increase its offer of compensation for the distress 
caused. 
Mr L said that he had to undertake extra work as a result of the leak and that he hadnt 
informed Fairmead of this, due to the additional stress. I asked Mr L if he could provide a 
report and the invoice from his builder who carried out the extra work. He said that his 
builder was out of the country. So, nothing further was provided.  Again, in the absence of 
this supporting evidence, I am unable to reasonably and fairly ask Fairmead to consider the 
extra work that Mr L said was carried out. But, Fairmead has said that if this information is 
provided, it would review this, which I think is fair. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Mr L was impacted by the leak. Fairmead had 
agreed to cover the full cost of the repairs of £6,200, which I think is fair. 
Putting things right
In relation to the compensation, I think that Fairmead have recognised that Mr L suffered 
from a level of disruption and I agree that he did. However, in the absence of any supporting 
evidence as mentioned, I think it is fair and reasonable that Fairmead pay compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused of £400. It should also pay a disturbance allowance of £200. 
My final decision
To put matters Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused of £400, if it hasnt done so already. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should also pay £200 disturbance allowance, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Fairmead Insurance Limited should also settle the repair costs of £6,200, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Fairmead Insurance Limited should also pay interest on the amounts above, within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Fairmead Insurance Limited to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred above, Fairmead Insurance Limited must give Mr L a certificate 
showing how much tax it deducts, if he asks them for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman