DRN-3714740
The complaint
Mr S complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing caused
him a financial loss due to incorrect information being displayed on their website.
What happened
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought that IWeb should pay some 
redress to put things right. IWeb didnt agree with the redress so the complaint came to me 
for a decision. 
After reviewing the complaint I came to the same overall outcome as our Investigator; that 
some redress was due for what happened. However I thought a different form of redress 
was appropriate. I issued a provisional decision on 19 August 2022 which said:
Mr S held shares in a company I will call CE. In early 2021 IWeb displayed information on
their website about an upcoming dividend showing an ex-dividend date of 7 January 2021.
Based on this information Mr S sold his shares on that date. Under normal circumstances for
the distribution of dividends this would mean that Mr S would be entitled to the dividend
payment. However the correct ex-dividend date was 11 January 2021. Because, based on
the information from IWeb, Mr S had sold his shares before then he didnt receive the
dividend.
Unfortunately IWeb hasnt meaningfully engaged in the complaint process when dealing with
our Investigator. This means that I need to come to a decision in the absence of information
about the situation. To do this I have made several assumptions about what happened:
- that IWeb act as nominee for the shares held by Mr S
- as nominee IWeb had access to information about the dividend payment dates
- and that IWeb didnt tell Mr S directly about the timetable for the dividend
Mr Ss account is held on an execution-only basis. This means that IWeb is expected to
carry out trades but it doesnt provide any advice. The shares are electronic without a
physical share certificate. This means IWeb act as the nominee  the legal owner of the
shares - and Mr S has the beneficial interest. This also means IWeb gets the
communications from the companies that Mr S holds shares in  such as company CE.
Unless IWeb can show they gave Mr S information about the correct dividend dates I think
its reasonable that he can rely on information from the website. Information all parties now
agree was wrong. This is especially important here because this was a special dividend
process and didnt follow the usual order of dates.
IWeb say they arent responsible for any third-party information displayed on their website.
And I agree that terms and conditions say this. But my role is to look and see if I think IWeb
has acted fairly and reasonably  and I dont think they have.
Based on the assumptions Ive been forced to make above, I think IWeb were directly aware
about the dividend dates for company CE. Rather than communicate this to Mr S they chose
to rely on third party information, which turned out to be incorrect.
Of course its possible IWeb werent made directly aware, but as nominee they have access
to full details of corporate actions such as this special dividend. In this case in particular, the
record date was correct as 8 January 2021, but with this special dividend, it was the record
date that determined if the special dividend would happen and then set the ex-dividend date
as 11 January 2021.
Whilst I appreciate all platforms rely on third party information, I think IWeb was able to know
the information it was displaying was wrong, or couldve given Mr S the information to know
it might be wrong  that is that the special dividend wasnt going to be confirmed until the
record date on this occasion. As I cant see it did either of these things, I think its fair Mr S
relied on the information IWeb was displaying and I think it needs to take responsibility for
this.
IWeb are the expert in these matters and I dont think its fair or reasonable that in this
particular set of circumstances they are able to waive all responsibility. So IWeb should put
Mr S back in the position he would be in had the correct information been displayed or
communicated to him directly. They should also make a payment for the inconvenience
caused by what happened.
Had the correct ex-dividend date been displayed Im satisfied Mr S wouldve kept the shares
until that date and sold them at the first opportunity afterwards. This means he wouldve
been entitled to the dividend.
IWeb should calculate the dividend amount Mr S was entitled to for his number of shares.
They should then work out the sale price of the shares at the first available opportunity on
the ex-dividend date. This should be compared with the amount Mr S received when he sold
his shares prematurely due to the incorrect information. IWeb should then pay Mr S any
difference so he hasnt suffered a financial loss. They should also provide their calculations.
IWeb should also pay Mr S £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience of what
happened.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision. 
IWeb replied providing the calculations for the redress I proposed which showed that Mr S 
didnt suffer a financial loss due to what happened. IWeb didnt agree to the £100 payment 
saying that the position of Mr S had improved from what happened so they didnt see a 
rationale for the payment. 
Mr S said that he didnt have any further comment to make. And when provided with the 
calculations showing there was no financial loss from what happened we werent provided 
with a response.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I find myself coming to the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision, 
and for the same reasons.
Looking at the calculations provided by IWeb Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt financially 
disadvantaged by what happened so there is no payment to be made for that aspect of the 
complaint. 
IWeb should however still pay Mr S £100 for the inconvenience of what happened. IWeb 
have said they would agree to this if I could explain why a cash award should be paid 
bearing in mind that the information Mr S relied on improved his position. They also said 
there had been a significant cost to them with the complaint.
Whether or not Mr S incurred a financial loss doesnt affect my opinion that a payment of 
£100 is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. Its agreed that Mr S relied on 
incorrect information on the IWeb website and that this caused him inconvenience. Mr S was 
put to some worry and concern thinking that he had been financially affected by his actions 
which he based on the incorrect information. It turns out that Mr S didnt suffer a financial 
loss, but it took some time for this to become clear. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied a payment of £100 is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr S £100 to put 
things right for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr S £100 to put 
things right for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman