DRN-3540947
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Find Insurance NI Ltd (FIN) didnt provide a copy of the policy 
document when selling him a commercial insurance policy which led him to think his 
business interruption cover was wider than it actually was.
What happened
Mr C first took out a commercial insurance policy through FIN in 2016. It was due for annual 
renewal in December 2019. At the end of November 2019, FIN wrote to Mr C setting out the 
terms on which his current insurer was prepared to renew and it recommended the policy to 
him. The policy was renewed.
In 2021 Mr C made a claim to the insurer for business interruption losses caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. The insurer declined the claim. It said he was only covered for business 
interruption resulting from physical damage to property and a specified list of diseases which 
didnt include Covid-19.
Mr C complained to FIN about the policy being mis-sold, saying that hed never received the 
policy document.
FIN said the policy document had been hand-delivered to him not long after the policy had 
first been taken out in 2016. It said the policy wording had been provided on a number of 
occasions including the last renewal in 2019. 
Unhappy with FINs response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He said hed never 
been provided with a copy of the policy wording, so he wasnt aware of the limitations on the 
business interruption cover. He explained how the pandemic had impacted his business.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think FIN could show that it had complied with its duty to provide Mr C with clear 
information about the policy he was renewing. But he thought that even if Mr C had 
received a copy of the policy document, he wouldnt have behaved any differently.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the related actions of public authorities had an 
impact on Mr Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Most insurance policies run for a year. Even though Mr Cs policy was renewed every year 
since it was taken out in 2016, it wasnt one continuous policy. Each policy is a separate 
contract in its own right and effectively each renewal is a new sale. So, in this complaint Im 
looking at whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr C in 2019 as it was under that policy that he 
tried to bring a claim.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  which sets out relevant rules that FIN 
needed to follow  says that when selling a policy, a firm should understand its customers 
demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent with those demands and 
needs. FIN sold Mr Cs policy on an advised basis which means it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. FIN also had a general duty to provide 
information that is clear, fair and not misleading.
Generally, after the sale a consumer is sent policy documents which outline the full benefits, 
terms, conditions and exclusions. Traditionally this used to be sent by post, but with 
changing technology, this can now be by email or an online portal which the consumer logs 
into.
When FIN wrote to Mr C inviting him to renew the policy, it told him he had the right to 
request a copy of the policy document. On 6 December 2019 FIN wrote to Mr C confirming 
that the policy had been renewed. The letter said the policy schedule and certificate of 
insurance were enclosed. There was no mention of the policy document.
FIN has told us that according to its file notes a staff member would hand deliver the policy 
documents to Mr C and the staff member had confirmed that she had done so. Before the 
pandemic it had always dealt with Mr C in face to face meetings. FIN also mentioned Mr C 
had previously made a claim under a different part of the policy and he hadnt told it then that 
he didnt have a copy of the policy.
Mr C says he has kept a copy of all the documents received from FIN and none of them refer 
to the policy document being enclosed. He thinks its clear from the size of the envelopes 
that the letters wouldnt have enclosed a policy document of over 80 pages.
It isnt clear that FIN provided a copy of the policy document on renewal. But either way, it 
had an obligation to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr C which is a more demanding 
requirement than providing Mr C with certain information.
The next thing I must consider is whether Mr C would have done something differently if hed 
had a copy of the policy document and whether the policy was mis-sold to him.
Mr C says FIN knew from visiting his premises that he dealt with clubs and schools which 
brought together large groups of people for events. So, he thought he should have been 
covered in the policy for more than the specified diseases and also his suppliers not being 
able to operate.
I can see FIN provided Mr C with a copy of the schedule which said he was covered for 
business interruption caused by Disease, Infestation and Defective Sanitation. 
While I can understand Mr C might have wanted cover for business interruption caused by 
diseases, I havent seen anything to indicate that he wanted any wider cover than that 
provided by the policy. In view of the nature of the business, I do think some level of disease 
cover would have been useful for him and the policy did provide cover for a specified list of 
diseases. They included diseases such as Legionnaires disease, measles, meningitis and 
mumps which might be seen as potential causes of school closures. As Covid-19 wasnt in 
existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list 
of diseases. Covid-19 wasnt added to the list of notifiable diseases in the part of the UK 
where Mr Cs business was until the end of February 2020 and, even when claims began 
later in March 2020, many insurers argued that policies with cover for notifiable diseases 
didnt provide cover. Given this, as well as the lack of any evidence indicating cover for a wider range of diseases 
was a particular concern for Mr C, I wouldnt expect FIN to have explained that the policy 
didnt provide cover for all notifiable diseases at that time. 
While I accept that Mr C would have read the policy if hed been provided with the full policy 
wording before renewal, again, Im not persuaded that he would have bought a different 
policy at that time, for the reasons set out above. Overall, while I think it should have 
provided clearer information, Im not convinced that FIN recommended a policy which wasnt 
consistent with his demands and needs. I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping 
for but, having considered the matter very carefully, Im not going to require FIN to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman