DRN-3628848
The complaint
Mr F has complained National Westminster Bank plc wont refund him for transactions he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
In 2021 Mr F complained to his bank that his debit card details had been used without his 
authority. There was some confusion setting up the complaint. NatWest then confirmed they 
wouldnt be refunding Mr F. They believed hed allowed the first use of his card on a taxi 
app. They were also concerned Mr F hadnt reported his debit card lost or stolen earlier.
Mr F brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator also noted that Mr F admitted hed given his card details to a friend to use 
on a taxi app. Mr F provided us with evidence to show that for a part of the time transactions 
were being made, he was out of the country. The investigator felt Mr F had more likely given 
his authority to his friend who then subsequently continued to use Mr Fs card details. As this 
amounted to apparent authority, he wouldnt be asking NatWest to refund Mr F.
Still unhappy, Mr F has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by NatWest and 
Mr F. This includes his evidence of travel last year. Ive also noted the detail in our 
investigators views of 2 April and 29 July 2022 but feel no need to rerun some of the 
arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive the decision Im 
making.
Were the transactions authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Fs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves.
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr F can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mr F needs 
to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by 
NatWest. In other words, Mr Fs genuine card details were used to make them.
Turning to consent, I think all the evidence suggests a friend of Mr F was using his card 
details to pay for taxis using an app. Mr F doesnt dispute providing his card details first off 
and authorising at least an initial transaction. 
Our investigator suggested Mr F provided apparent authority to his friend to make the 
transactions. Apparent authority can be withdrawn or annulled by the payment service user 
(Mr F in this context). But theres no evidence Mr F withdrew this authority until he 
discovered what had happened.
I appreciate the idea of giving apparent authority may not be something that would have 
occurred to Mr F. On the other hand theres no dispute he did allow a friend to use his card 
details when booking a taxi using an app. This means that  and I see no reason why this 
wouldnt have occurred to him  hed have known those card details were known and open 
to continued use. Mr F has never told us he asked his friend to stop using his card details.
I accept when Mr F realised there were more transactions on his account than hed 
anticipated, he took steps to report his card details stolen. At that stage theres no doubt 
Mr F had withdrawn any authority.
On balance, I dont believe Mr F had withdrawn apparent authority earlier than that. This 
means the disputed transactions were authorised.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman