The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc dealt with a claim she made 
under her home emergency cover for a blocked kitchen sink.
Mrs O is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
Mrs O holds a home emergency insurance policy, which is underwritten by Royal & Sun 
Alliance (RSA).  
On 6 July 2019 Mrs O contacted RSA in order to report that her kitchen sink was blocked. A 
tradesperson was immediately instructed to attend Mrs Os property and visited the same 
day. 
RSA said the tradesperson unblocked the kitchen sink but there was a foul smell that they 
werent able to eradicate. However, Mrs O said the tradesperson didnt unblock the sink  
she said that was done by her son instead. And she said the only thing the tradesperson did 
was take photographs of the damage caused to her property due to the blockage.
Mrs O said the problem persisted after the tradesperson left her property. She was unhappy 
with how RSA had handled her home emergency claim. She felt, it should have undertaken 
further work, and had it done so in a timely manner, her home wouldnt have sustained the 
damage it did. So, she complained.
When RSA responded to Mrs Os complaint it stated the tradesperson had completed a 
report confirming the work theyd undertaken during their visit. So, it said it had evidence 
theyd unblocked the sink. And RSA reiterated to Mrs O that any work over and above that 
wasnt covered under the remit of her home emergency policy. So, it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong  and it didnt uphold her complaint about how it had dealt with her home 
emergency claim. But it did recognise that Mrs O had received poor customer service in 
discussing her claim with it. So, RSA offered to compensate her £100 to reflect that.
Being dissatisfied with how RSA proposed to resolve her complaint, Mrs O referred it to our 
service. She was also unhappy RSA hadnt issue its final response in a timely manner. Our 
investigator looked into what happened but they didnt uphold this complaint. They thought 
RSA had acted fairly in declining to undertake any further work under Mrs Os home 
emergency policy. And they werent persuaded there were any delays in responding to Mrs 
Os complaint that prejudiced her ability to refer it to our service. Overall, our investigator felt 
the compensation RSA had offered to acknowledge the shortfalls in service it had identified 
was fair and reasonable. But Mrs O disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
DRN-1758687What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mrs O and RSA that Ive read everything thats been sent. Ive 
also listened to all the call recordings RSA has provided our service. So if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
I can see Mrs O feels very strongly about the issues raised in her complaint. And I recognise 
that she feels let down by RSAs final response. But, while I have sympathy with Mrs Os 
position, my role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated her unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right.   
Ill focus first on the dispute between Mrs O and RSA regarding whether any emergency 
work was undertaken under her home emergency policy.
RSA said it received confirmation from the tradesperson that attended Mrs Os property, 
which confirmed theyd unblocked her kitchen sink. But Mrs O disputes they did that. Shes 
clear in what she says  namely that her son unblocked the sink.
I dont doubt what Mrs O is saying here. However, the tradesperson that was appointed to 
undertake emergency work provided a report to RSA which stated theyd attended property 
to unlock kitchen sink removed waist pipe machined to stack cleared blockage checked and 
tested left free flowing saying keeps getting bad smells recommend CCTV survey.
Given the level of detail of the work the tradesperson stated had been undertaken I can 
understand why RSA thought emergency work had been undertaken at Mrs Os property by 
the attending tradesperson. And I dont think it acted unfairly in relying on the report it 
received. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error here. 
Ill deal next with the scope of the work that was authorised by RSA as its clear that Mrs O 
feels the emergency work didnt go far enough. 
RSA said it thought Mrs O had an issue with a drain pipe or an internal pipe that needed 
repairing. And, as outlined above, Mrs O was advised to instruct a CCTV survey of the drain 
in efforts to identify what was causing the problem  failing which a more invasive internal 
search would be required. 
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Os home insurance policy. And Im 
satisfied that the further work that RSA recommended here was beyond the scope of Mrs 
Os home emergency cover. Ill explain why.
Under the terms of Mrs Os home emergency policy only repairs necessary to restore the 
service or to prevent further damage to the home as a result of failure of or damage to the 
plumbing or drainage are covered. And the policy goes on to explain in clear intelligible 
language that dripping taps or any other parts of the plumbing or drainage system where 
water is safely escaping down a drain are excluded.
Im persuaded from the evidence presented that the sink had been unblocked. So, water 
was safely escaping. Im therefore satisfied that RSA provided cover in line with Mrs Os 
policy here. I appreciate Mrs O may have wanted RSA to cover the cost of a CCTV survey, or other 
investigative work. However, this isnt what her home emergency policy provides for. And, 
from the telephone calls Ive heard, I think RSA managed Mrs Os expectations as to the 
scope of work that was authorised under her policy. I therefore cant fairly conclude that RSA 
should have undertaken any further work here.
I can see RSA recommended that Mrs O contact her buildings insurer to discuss any further 
work that may have been required to resolve the problems she continued to experience 
following the tradespersons visit to her property. I think that was a helpful suggestion. 
It appears Mrs O feels that, had RSA undertaken more extensive work under her policy, the 
damage her property sustained would have been reduced. But, as Ive already outlined, Im 
not persuaded RSA was required to do anything further under the remit of Mrs Os home 
emergency cover.
Ill turn now to the concerns Mrs O raised that she didnt receive RSAs final response to her 
complaint promptly. RSA has provided a copy of its final response letter to our service. Its 
dated 19 July 2019 and addressed to Mrs O at her home address. This is the same address 
as the one thats been given to our service.
Mrs O says she didnt receive this correspondence until October 2019  and Ive no reason 
to doubt what she says here. But, based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that its more 
likely than not that RSA posted its final response to Mrs O on the date shown on the letter. 
And while there was a delay in Mrs O receiving that correspondence, this isnt something I 
can fairly hold RSA responsible for. In any event, this didnt impact Mrs Os ability to bring 
her complaint to us within the time limits that apply. So, she hasnt been prejudiced here.
Finally, I can see RSA has offered to pay £100 in recognition of the poor service Mrs O 
received when discussing her claim.
Ive carefully considered the overall impact of RSAs shortfalls in service on Mrs O and Im 
satisfied that £100 is a fair amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs 
O would have suffered here. I know Mrs O has indicated that she wants our service to tell 
RSA to make pay a further £250 to resolve her complaint. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted. So, I wont be asking RSA to 
increase its award. It isn't clear that sum has already been paid to Mrs O  if it hasnt RSA 
should pay her £100 to resolve this complaint.
I understand Mrs O feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and that 
shell be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve 
her dispute with RSA informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs O any further 
with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
has made an offer to pay Mrs O £100 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
should pay Mrs O £100, if it hasnt done so already. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman