DRN-3583584
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H took a payment holiday on his Lloyds loan during the pandemic, due to him suffering 
with coronavirus. Later on, Mr H says that Lloyds wrote to him to ask him for the full amount 
of the arrears. Mr H contacted Lloyds and he made them an offer of £100 a month. 
Mr H says that he received correspondence from Lloyds to contact them by a certain date or 
his account would be closed, so he says he rang them on the day of the deadline, but the 
call handler told him his account was closed that morning. Mr Hs account defaulted. 
Mr H made a complaint to Lloyds who did not uphold his complaint. They said that his £100 
a month offer wasnt accepted and despite several attempts to contact him, they were 
unable to discuss this further. Lloyds said that due to the loan being in arrears for some time 
and as theyd been unable to discuss this and agree a plan with Mr H, his account was 
closed and passed to their recoveries team. Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said that Lloyds issued a default notice 
dated 29 June 2021. The notice requested Mr H to make a payment for £1,443.17 by 17 July 
2021 and if this didnt happen, they may end his agreement. Our investigator couldnt see 
that the payment of £1,443.17 was made by 17 July 2021 and therefore he didnt think that 
Mr H not being able to speak to Lloyds would have changed the outcome of the default 
being applied. Our investigator said that since the default was applied, Mr H still hasnt been 
able to meet his contractual monthly payments. Our investigator said a default would 
generally be recorded when the arrears had built up to an unacceptable level, which is most 
often when a consumer is between three and six months in arrears. 
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that he did not receive a default notice. He says he told Lloyds when he 
rang them that the only letter he had received from them is the one to ring them in 14 days, 
which he rang them on the 14th day. Mr H said that he wouldnt have been asking for help if 
he could pay the monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Mr H had trouble making his repayments in 2020 originally. Ive read everything that 
Mr H has said about his difficulty during this timeframe, so Im aware of his circumstances 
here. 
I can see that Lloyds sent Mr H a default notice letter dated 29 June 2021. The default notice 
sets out that Mr H had to either repay the outstanding arrears (£1,443.17) or come to an 
arrangement with Lloyds by 17 July 2021. The letter also sets out what would happen if they 
didnt receive the arrears payment by this date. One of the things the letter shows is that 
they would end the agreement with Mr H unless he makes an arrangement with them to 
repay the arrears. But Mr H wasnt able to pay his contractual monthly payment, so Im not 
persuaded he would have been able to make an arrangement to reduce the arrears also. 
I know Mr H says he did not receive the default notice. But the default notice was sent to his 
registered address. It is the same address as other letters he received from Lloyds. So it 
would not be fair for me to hold Lloyds responsible for any postal errors if Mr H did not 
receive the default notice, as this would be outside of their control. 
Mr H then received another letter from Lloyds after this date. I know he received this letter as 
he provided a copy of it to our service. This letter refers to the default notice, so if Mr H had 
not received the default notice previously, this letter would have made him aware a default 
notice had been sent. The letter dated 20 July asks him to get in touch with Lloyds within 14 
days of the letter. 
Mr H says he rang Lloyds on the 14th day, but he was told the account was closed. While 
this may seem unfair to Mr H that it appears he was denied the chance to speak to Lloyds to 
make an arrangement, I can see that Mr H did not end up making an agreement to clear the 
arrears or return to his contractual monthly payments. So even if Lloyds hadnt closed the 
account when they did, Im not persuaded that a default would have been avoided here.
Lloyds had tried to get in touch with Mr H in the days leading up to his account being closed. 
I asked Lloyds why this was as I looked at the income and expenditure form Mr H provided 
our service, which he said he sent to Lloyds, which showed he had offered them £100 a 
month. Lloyds said they tried to ring him to ascertain if he could repay the arrears balance of 
£1,438.17 and return to his normal contractual conditions. This reasoning is different to what 
Lloyds said in their final response letter to Mr H, but Im satisfied this was the reason why 
they tried to speak to him and Ill explain why.
Lloyds system notes show an entry on 13 July 2021. The notes show Lloyds wanted to 
discuss Mr Hs offer and the best option moving forward. The notes show his offer of £100. 
The notes also show that after all of his outgoings (which would include the Lloyds payment), 
he would have a surplus figure of £52.09 a month, so Im satisfied that Lloyds were clear 
with the information which Mr H had provided them.
Mr Hs account did not default until 6 August, based on a screenshot Lloyds have provided 
me. I can see that Mr H spoke to Lloyds on 6 August. The call notes show that he set up a 
repayment plan for £94 here. But I also asked Lloyds what would have happened if they 
would have spoken to Mr H before they closed his account regarding his offer of £100 a 
month. Lloyds told me that they could not accept that monthly repayment as being sufficient 
as it did not clear the arrears or meet the contractual payment. So regardless of Mr H not 
speaking to Lloyds before the account was closed, they were unable to set a repayment plan 
in place to avoid a default based on Mr Hs circumstances. 
Im satisfied that this was fair. Payment arrangements tend to be for short term financial 
difficulties. Mr H started to have financial difficulties in 2020. By the time his account 
defaulted, he had built up about five months worth of arrears and the arrears were building month on month. Im satisfied Lloyds had shown Mr H forbearance prior to defaulting the 
account by arranging several payment holidays. It also appears that the last time they 
charged him interest on the loan was 21 December 2020. 
From Mr Hs payment history, I can see he only made payments totalling £15 to his account 
in March 2022. So even if Lloyds wouldnt have registered the default when they did and 
they agreed to Mr Hs proposal, its almost certain his account would have been defaulted in 
March 2022 when he did not pay at least £94 to his account, as the system notes suggest he 
agreed to this in August 2021 (although he often paid £100+ a month). So because the 
default was registered in August 2021, this works in Mr Hs favour as this will be removed 
from his credit file earlier than if his account defaulted in March 2022, which Im persuaded 
that it would have done when he paid a total of £15 instead of at least £94. 
It's clear to me what a difficult time Mr H has been through and is still going through here. He 
was clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with his finances at a very tough time. It appears 
Mr H is still making payments to his loan. This should be reflected on his credit file that the 
outstanding balance is reducing each month. 
But Lloyds have a duty to reflect the actual account status to the credit reference agencies. 
They would not be expected to keep Mr H on repayment plans indefinitely while arrears 
accrue each month and their customers financial situation is not improving. They did agree 
to payment plans previously to help Mr H and they stopped interest on the account for a 
prolonged period of time. So Im satisfied they have shown Mr H forbearance, but 
unfortunately based on Mr Hs circumstances, he was not in a position to pay his contractual 
monthly repayment and clear the arrears in a timely manner to avoid a default. So Im 
satisfied that Lloyds did nothing wrong by registering the default when they did. So it follows 
I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman