DRN-4193608
The complaint
Mr P, a partner in a business B, complains about the way Funding Circle Ltd has sought to 
recover payment under a loan it arranged for him and his business partner. Mr P believes 
Funding Circle should show greater forbearance as he and his partner are in financial 
difficulty following alleged fraudulent activity by one of their employees.
What happened
I recently wrote to both parties to set out my provisional conclusions in respect of the 
complaint. Ive reproduced my provisional decision here. In it, I said:
In 2018 Mr P and his partner entered into a loan agreement arranged on their behalf 
by Funding Circle. The loan of £261,184 was made for business purposes and was 
placed with a corporate investor C through Funding Circles peer-to-peer lending 
platform. Under the loan arrangements, Funding Circle administered the loan on Cs 
behalf.
By mid-2020 the loan had fallen into arrears. Mr P has described the chain of events 
that led to this position in some detail. For the purposes of this decision I will simply 
say that he has attributed the partnerships financial problems to the activities of a 
former employee, which he has reported to the police. Mr P is unhappy that having 
explained the situation to Funding Circle, it has maintained the stance that he and his 
business partner are liable to repay at the contractual rate, and that it has expressed 
the intention to pursue legal action in respect of the money owed.
Funding Circle says that it is not responsible for the situation Mr P and his partner 
found themselves in, and while it is sympathetic it has an obligation towards the 
lender to recover payment. Funding Circle has said it accepts the loan will be repaid 
over time and that it is amenable to agreeing a reduced payment plan based on the 
borrowers affordability. However, it has said Mr Ps proposal of £80 per month is 
significantly lower than the contractual amount of £5,613.87. It has asked the 
partners to provide security for the loan to avoid the need for legal action.
Our initial assessment
Our investigator didnt think we could deal with the complaint. She noted that our 
compulsory jurisdiction (to which Funding Circle is subject) only covers peer-to-peer 
lending where it meets the definition of the credit-related regulated activity of 
operating an electronic system in relation to lending, as set out in Article 36H of The 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (as 
amended). Ill call this the RAO for ease of reading.
The investigator thought the arrangements between the business partners and 
Funding Circle didnt meet the RAO definition because the lender was an 
incorporated company and the borrowing  while undertaken by the partners as 
relevant recipients of credit  was for business purposes and rather more than the 
£25,000 limit set out in Article 36H.
Mr P has asked for this review. He feels that Funding Circle was wrong to construct 
the lending arrangements in a way that would take the borrowing outside the 
regulatory and legal protections he believes he is afforded by the FCA and by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And he argues that Funding Circle is acting 
unreasonably towards him in seeking repayment in the amount it has, taking into 
account the background circumstances.
My provisional findings
Ill deal first with the question of our power to deal with the complaint. Our 
investigator correctly identified the boundaries at play under the RAO in terms of 
Article 36H activity. The reasons she explained as to why the lending arrangements 
fell outside the defined regulated activity were correct, and for the sake of 
completeness, I share her view on this aspect.
As an observation, I see no reason to think Funding Circle wasnt entitled to structure 
the loan in the way it did. The RAO recognises the possibility that lending 
arrangements might be structured in a way that takes them out of regulated activity, 
and the CCA also excludes most loans for business purposes at a much lower level 
than the amount Mr P and his partner borrowed. So while I appreciate the way he 
feels about that situation, its worth recognising that neither Parliament nor the FCA 
sought to provide the same level of protection to this business borrowing as they did 
to consumer borrowing.
But Im conscious that Mr Ps cause for concern isnt in relation to the lending activity. 
He hasnt sought to complain about the decision to approve the borrowing. And while 
hes said hes unhappy with the way in which Funding Circle structured the 
arrangements, that wasnt the basis of the complaint he made  thats something that 
he only discovered in the course of our review of the complaint.
Rather, Mr P has complained about the way Funding Circle has dealt with the 
partners in relation to the administration of the debt. That is a different credit-related 
regulated activity under Article 39G of the RAO, to which the exceptions relating to 
business and financial limits do not apply. As Funding Circle was acting on behalf of 
the lender, rather than acting as lender itself, I find it was carrying on Article 39G 
activity and as such, the complaint is within our jurisdiction.
However, Im not minded to agree with Mr Ps assertion that seeking repayment of 
the debt he and his partner agreed they would be liable for amounts to 
disproportionate action, or an unreasonable stance for the lender to take. I dont 
doubt the partners found themselves in an incredibly difficult financial situation 
following their discovery of their employees actions, and I have every sympathy with 
the steps Mr P says he had to take and the impact those actions had on his 
business.
But Im minded to say that Funding Circle has demonstrated forbearance in its 
response to those difficulties. It has said it is willing to consider the partners financial 
circumstances and a suitable repayment plan. I dont think its inherently unfair that 
as part of that plan, Funding Circle asks the partners to provide security for the debt 
on a voluntary basis. Its quite common in the event of a court judgment for a debt of 
this size for the claimant to seek an order for a legal charge. If such an agreement 
can be reached prior to proceedings, then that seems to me entirely appropriate.I do hope Mr P and his business partner are able to recover the money they believe 
they are owed by their former employee, and that they are then in a position to use 
this to address the debt Funding Circle is administering on the lenders behalf. In the 
meantime, Im minded to say that the fair way to resolve the dispute is for the parties 
to try to come to a reasonable repayment plan as an interim measure, as Funding 
Circle has indicated. Currently, I dont think its for me to stand in the way of a 
reasonable request that some form of security is offered to achieve this.
I invited the parties to provide further submissions or comments before making my final 
determination.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P raised a number of points relating to the ongoing police investigation and why he felt it 
would be appropriate for Funding Circle to suspend recovery action until the underlying issue 
was resolved. He said he had asked the police for an update and would forward new 
evidence to us. Mr P also noted the impact charges over his property would have and 
suggested what he considered a suitable alternative.
I put Mr Ps response to Funding Circle  who didnt respond directly to my provisional 
decision  to see whether it was minded to change its stance. Funding Circle acknowledged 
the background circumstances and that the employees activity had impacted on Bs ability 
to manage the loan payments. However, it told us that C had sold the debt to another party, 
A, and that as a result Funding Circle no longer serviced the debt. Consequently it couldnt 
comment on any steps that might be taken to recover the debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disagreed with my proposed conclusion in terms of our power to deal with 
the complaint. Nor have they given me reason to reach a different conclusion in respect of 
the approach Funding Circle took towards Mr P and his business partner in administering the 
debt on Cs behalf. 
Im conscious Mr P said he intended to send additional evidence relating to the police 
investigation. While that might give some background as to how that matter is progressing, 
and when it might be concluded, I dont see that it has a material bearing on the way 
Funding Circle dealt with the debt that led to his complaint.
Further, given that Funding Circle is no longer acting as administrator of the debt, the current 
status of the police investigation and any forbearance that might be offered is a matter for 
him to take up with the new debt owners, rather than Funding Circle. After all, if Funding 
Circle isnt acting as the debt administrator, it wont be taking legal proceedings in relation to 
the balance.
I trust Funding Circle has been in touch with Mr P to tell him who now owns the debt and to 
whom he should direct any future correspondence. If it hasnt yet done so, Im sure it 
understands the need to do so, and that it will be taking those steps without further delay.
Taking all of this into account, I am adopting my provisional findings in full as the basis for 
my final decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision, I dont require Funding 
Circle Ltd to take any action to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman