DRN-4169522
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr T with a loan for £700 in October 2021. The loan had an APR of 770% and 
an 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £2,590.02, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £1,890.02, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £143.89. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing this loan. Mr T disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was passed 
forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 30 May 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 30 May 2023 - setting out why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ts complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts 
complaint.
I explained that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether   
Mr T could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr T prior to 
providing him his loan. It also carried out credit checks. L2Gs said its checks suggested           
Mr T had more than enough to cover the payments to these loans and so it was reasonably 
entitled to lend. 
I carefully considered what L2G said. But it was clear that Mr T had had significant difficulties 
repaying credit in the past. In particular, I was mindful that Mr T had a number of defaults. I 
did appreciate that the majority of these were historic. Nonetheless there was one account 
which had defaulted in the months leading up to this loan.   
So I thought that L2G ought to have obtained further information on Mr Ts expenditure to 
check that the recent default wasnt an indication of him once again being in a difficult 
financial position. And I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing 
this loan, it would have seen that Mr T was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most 
of his income was being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing 
commitments. Mr Ts bank statements also showed the real reason for his difficulties too. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr T would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr T was in no sort of position to make the 
payments to this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr T with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr T ended up paying and was being 
expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with. 
So it was my intention to find that Mr T lost out because of what L2G did wrong and direct it 
to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T confirmed that he agreed with my provisional decision and that he had nothing further 
to add.
L2G confirmed that it didnt have anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ts complaint in my provisional decision 
of 30 May 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Mr Ts complaint. And 
I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what I think L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Mr T by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr T made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £700 originally lent. If Mr T has already 
repaid more than £700 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. And any 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr T;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr T to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ts credit file. HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman