DRN-3081602
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Alphera. He experienced issues with air leaking from the tyres, the engine management light 
illuminating and a fault with the turbo pipe. Mr F was advised by the supplying dealer to take 
the car for a diagnostic. Mr F did this. He also paid for some repairs. 
Following this he experienced the car shaking. The dealer said this was due to a problem 
with the tyres and replaced two tyres. Mr F asked Alphera to reimburse him the cost of 
repairs. Alphera said that the dealer would pay for the repairs but not the health check that 
Mr F had arranged to be carried out. Mr F complained to this service because he hasnt 
received a refund for the repairs.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that whilst I didnt think that Alphera 
should be responsible for all the costs incurred by Mr F, I could see that he had paid for 
some repairs for faults which arose in the first 6 months of supply, and I said that these 
repair costs should be refunded. I said that the refunds should exclude the health check cists 
because this wasnt a repair and wasnt authorised by the supplying dealer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Therefore, I dont see any reason to 
reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Alphera must
Refund Mr F the costs of repairs carried out between October 2019 and December 2019 
upon presentation by Mr F of the repair invoices.
Alphera does not have to refund the cost of any repairs for which Mr F cannot provide an 
invoice. Nor does it have to refund the costs of the health check.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services GB Limited trading 
as Alphera Financial Services must take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman