DRN-3249833
The complaint
Through her representative, Mrs H complained that Santander UK Plc had failed to place in 
investment a sum of £20,000 that she instructed it to move out of a cash ISA. She is also 
unhappy with the way Santander has handled her complaint. Mrs H asked for redress to 
reflect loss she believes resulted from what happened.
Im grateful to Mrs Hs representative for his assistance throughout this complaint. However, 
to help keep things simpler, Ill mostly refer in my decision to Mrs H since this is a complaint 
about what happened to her. 
What happened
The facts surrounding this complaint arent all agreed but Mrs Hs representative has 
helpfully provided a timeline of events which I think its useful for me to briefly summarise in 
order to give a broad overview of the background to this complaint. 
In late May/early June 2017 Mrs H met with a named agent (Ill call W) at Santander.
Mrs H subsequently completed a Transfer Request Form (which I've seen) date stamped 
22 June 2017. This instructed Santander to transfer £20,000 from Mrs Hs cash ISA into her 
investment hub ISA.
Mrs H received a letter dated 23 June 2017 which said: We acknowledge receipt of your 
application to transfer your existing ISA into a Santander ISA.
The requested transfer was completed shortly afterwards. 
Regular twice yearly investment hub statements were issued.
During a phone call with Santander in January 2021, Mrs H became aware that the £20,000 
in her investment hub was in a cash only part of her account  this was subsequently moved 
into the investment part of the account to reflect Mrs Hs wishes in this regard. 
Mrs H is unhappy that, for over three and a half years, she wasnt either earning interest on 
the cash or in a potential position to receive an investment return because the £20,000 
remained as cash. To resolve things, Mrs H wants Santander to reimburse loss of interest 
from June 2017 to February 2021. She feels that shes lost out on at least £1,350 interest 
which she could have achieved had her £20,000 remained within her cash ISA. 
When Mrs H first contacted Santander about this, it seemed to accept that it had let Mrs H 
down by not completing her investment in 2017 but it explained why it didnt agree that she 
had suffered any loss as a result. Santander credited her account with £100 by way of an 
apology for what happened.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this response and so Santander looked into things further. 
This resulted in Santander changing its mind about the merits of her complaint. 
It sent a final response letter to Mrs H in June 2021 saying that it could find no records from 
2017 in its system where it would expect to find information about meetings with financial 
planning mangers where advice was given.
In summary, it said her transfer request was actioned in line with her instructions and it was 
clear from looking at the regular statements which Mrs H could have accessed online at any 
time that the £20,000 had always been held in the cash element of her investment hub 
account. Santander offered to print and send the statements to her if required. So it didnt 
uphold her complaint. 
 
Santander acknowledged that this was a disappointing outcome for Mrs H. In recognition of 
its oversight when handling her complaint initially and for the upset caused Santander paid a 
further £100 into her account and said it sincerely apologised. 
Mrs H didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so she brought her complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel she had seen enough to be able to say that formal advice had 
been given to Mrs H in 2017 or that Santander had been made aware that Mrs H had 
wanted Santander to invest the transferred £20,000 into her share ISA. 
In her view, the investment hub statements showed Santander had done enough to make 
Mrs H reasonably aware that her money hadnt been invested as this was shown on the 
statements produced. 
And, whilst our investigator was sympathetic to Mrs Hs position and recognised her strength 
of feeling about what happened, she felt that the £200 already paid by Santander was fair 
and reasonable overall to reflect the frustration caused by the way it had handled her 
complaint. 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator. She mainly said she hadnt asked for compensation  
only reimbursement. And she believes the paperwork provided supports her complaint. 
She would like Santander to produce further evidence to support what it says and it feels 
that Santander hasnt provided value for the management fees paid for their services.  
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs H  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for her. But having thought about everything I've seen and been 
told, Ive independently reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why I say this. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mrs Hs complaint is that during a meeting on 20 June 
2017 in one of Santanders branches, Mrs H (along with her representative) met with a financial adviser (W) who led Mrs H to understand that she could better use £20,000 cash 
savings to invest instead and that W would arrange for this to happen. 
If I have not referred to each and every point mentioned during the course of the 
correspondence about this complaint, its because I have nothing further I can usefully add 
to what our investigator has said already. In my decision, I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
Mrs H said pros and cons of transferring monies into her existing investment hub ISA at 
Santander were discussed, and that W agreed to do this.
Santander says it keeps a record of advised sales on its system and that it holds no record 
of W having provided financial advice in June 2017.
This is clearly at odds with what Mrs H and her representative have told me.
Where information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the 
information thats available. 
This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. 
I must be impartial and take into account information from both parties when making my 
decision. Theres more detailed information on our website which explains the Financial 
Ombudsman Service approach and I've kept this in mind when thinking about Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
I've taken into account that Santanders system did record Mrs Hs meeting with its financial 
adviser in January 2021. I think its reasonable for me to rely on what Santander has told me 
about what it records on its system. So Ive no strong reason to think that a formal financial 
review with a financial adviser in 2017 resulting in advice being given wouldnt also appear 
on Santanders system. 
I think our investigator was right to conclude that the balance of the evidence suggests that 
the meeting Mrs H recalled with W in 2017 wasnt a formal advice meeting when suitability 
was discussed and recommendations were made. But I dont think I need to say more about 
this because it seems to me that Mrs Hs complaint is mainly focused on what happened 
after Mrs H decided to transfer her cash ISA when Mrs H thought W would move the money 
into investment for her. So thats what Im concentrating on in my decision. 
With the greatest of respect to Mrs H (and her representative), it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to expect Mrs H or her representative to remember word for word exactly what was said 
in 2017. I also have to keep in mind the possibility that there may have been some 
misunderstanding on Mrs Hs part about what needed to happen to move some of her cash 
savings into investments  and I think this is the most likely explanation for what happened. 
Ill explain why I say this.
Mrs H had an existing holding in Santanders investment hub with her money invested in a 
share fund. It might be helpful to record here that the Santander investment hub is an online 
platform that enables customers who are registered on it to pay in cash and buy, hold and 
sell shares or units in investment funds. It can be viewed and operated using a mobile phone 
or via online banking. 
Thinking about what happened in 2017, I have no doubt that Mrs H (and her representative) 
are certain about what theyve told me. And I accept that there was a discussion that prompted Mrs H to complete the Transfer Request Form. But this isnt enough of a reason 
for me to uphold the complaint.
The way I see things, this complaint turns on what I think Mrs H could reasonably have 
expected to happen following the meeting with W in 2017. Mrs H hasnt complained about 
being advised to invest so I dont think I need to say more about that. Mrs Hs main concern 
is that her £20,000 investment paid into the hub wasnt used to buy shares or units in the 
hub  instead the money sat as cash in the hub. 
After careful consideration of everything I've seen and been told, I dont feel I have seen 
enough to show that there was any obligation on Santanders part to do more than follow 
Mrs Hs instructions on the Transfer Request Form. 
And as far as I can see, Santander did carry out Mrs Hs instructions as set out on the form. 
Mrs H has sent me a copy of the Transfer Request Form which shows the box ticked next 
to where it says on the form: I want to transfer some of my ISA to my investment hub ISA 
and the account number of the ISA she wanted to transfer is filled in. 
Further on, the form is ticked next to where it says: Yes, I want to transfer some of the 
money paid in, in previous years and below this the form has been completed to indicate 
£20,000 cash should be transferred.
The form is date stamped to show it was received in Santanders mailroom on 22 June 2017. 
I havent seen anything else that makes me think Santander ought reasonably to have 
understood or assumed Mrs Hs intentions, beyond what she had expressly put on the form. 
There isnt anything on the form that would have required Santander to invest the money into 
shares or any investment funds once it was received into the investment hub ISA. 
The investment hub offered a range of investment choices. Santander says that Mrs H would 
have needed to instruct Santander to complete a share purchase for her and invest the 
funds. The Transfer Request Form Mrs H completed doesnt include anything about this and 
I cant see anything to show that specific investment options were considered or recorded 
anywhere else. 
Mrs H could have seen from the regular quarterly statements available to view that her 
cash wasnt put in a managed fund. For this to happen, she would have needed to make a 
decision on what fund(s) she wanted to invest the £20,000 in or what shares she wanted to 
use the money to buy  and she could have done this through the online platform. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that happened. 
I can understand why some of the information on the account statements that Mrs H could 
view might have been confusing. But I cant fairly say that anything I've seen from Santander 
is enough to have caused Mrs H to think it had invested her £20,000. I say this because the 
investment hub statements Santander has shown me do show, reasonably clearly in my 
view, the £20,000 in cash separate from her money invested in shares. 
The statement for the period running up to March 2017 (before Mrs H decided to move cash 
into the hub) has a column headed Cash/Investment name and this shows the value of 
shares Mrs H was invested in. There is nothing showing any cash in the hub. The statement covering the period 15 March 2017-15 September 2017 shows a cash entry 
in the Cash/Investment name column and a transaction is detailed showing £20,000 was 
deposited by cheque into the hub on 29 June 2017. 
So I think Mrs H could have seen that the £20,000 cash had been transferred to the hub, as 
she had instructed.
I havent overlooked the fact that Mrs H said that at no point in the meeting with W was she 
informed that the transfer would be into a cash only account or that she would have any 
further actions to carry out. And, in coming to my decision, Ive taken carefully into account 
everything that Mrs Hs representative has said, including comments sent in response to our 
investigators view. I appreciate that Mrs H feels strongly that she was let down by W in 2017 
and things were only put right when she made contact again with a different financial 
adviser. 
But I dont think Santander can fairly be held accountable for the fact Mrs Hs money 
remained in cash in the hub. As far as I can see, the regular statements that followed 
continued to show the £20,000 still as cash. 
Mrs Hs representative has mentioned paying management fees and so feels Santander is 
responsible for not having invested the £20,000 when it made no sense to keep the money 
as cash in the investment hub. But the regular platform fee for being a member of the 
investment hub covered administration costs  I havent seen anything to make me think 
Santander was responsible for managing Mrs Hs cash in the hub or that Mrs H was 
charged for that service. 
All this leads me to the conclusion that I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that 
it was an error by Santander that led to the £20,000 transferred from Mrs Hs cash ISA to 
her existing investment hub ISA in 2017 remaining as cash.
In order to be able to uphold Mrs Hs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that 
Santander has done something wrong  and I havent seen enough here to do so. So 
I cant award the redress Mrs H would like me to. 
Its unfortunate in my view that Santander sent two final response letters saying different 
things  although I think it's fair to say that neither letter offered Mrs H the reimbursement 
she was hoping for. But it is important that Santander should accurately set out its response 
to the complaint in a formal final response letter if necessary, by sending a corrected 
second response, as happened here. And taking things as a whole, I think that the 
payments already made to Mrs H reflect a genuine understanding and acknowledgment on 
Santanders part of the frustration undoubtedly experienced by Mrs H in the course of 
dealing with this complaint  and I believe that the £200 payment fairly reflects this. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H. But as Im satisfied Santander dealt with her complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action.
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mrs H hoped for, she will at least feel that her complaint 
has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman