DRN-2042865
 
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided poor service during a 
safeguard review and while it was opening a new bank account.
What happened
B was originally a sole trader business. In February 2019 it was incorporated. In May 2019 
HSBC contacted it about a safeguarding exercise and said it needed information about its 
business to help guard against fraud and financial crime. B completed online forms and 
complained about the process. In July 2019 it was told that it needed to apply for another 
bank account as the one it was using was still a sole trader account. B attempted to do this 
online but had difficulties and instead one director attended a branch in August 2019 to 
make an application. He was told that the shareholding of B was registered in the company 
secretarys name. This was not correct and B instructed a third party to change the details. 
B continued to be contacted about the safeguarding process and was told its account would 
be closed on 31 October 2019. It complained again in November 2019 when it did not have 
a working account and it was given an extension to complete the process. It found that the 
third party had not registered the changes at Companies House and this was corrected. It 
had a new account from 28 November 2019. 
HSBC accepts that it had provided poor communication about what was required. It paid B 
£250. B said that this was insufficient and did not reflect the time spent dealing with this. And 
that it had also had access to its account details restricted.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC had 
done enough to compensate B. There was poor communication between the team carrying 
out the safeguard exercise and the manager opening the new account. But he couldnt hold 
HSBC responsible for delays by the third party in changing the shareholder details. It had 
tried to contact B but had been unable to get through.
B had raised four complaints during the process. The first two were about difficulties in 
getting through to the safeguard team and he did not think it needed to do anything more 
about that. The third was that B was not notified that the account would be closed but HSBC 
had written to B about that. And the fourth was about the process and communication and it 
had accepted communication failings. We didnt tend to award compensation based on units 
of time and he thought that the compensation overall was sufficient.
B did not agree and it said that not all the complaint points had been considered. It did not 
have access to all the history of what happened when it submitted the complaint as access 
to the details on its sole trader account had been stopped. The director said he had received 
two phone messages between August and November 2019. He said he did not go back 
straightaway but did later. When he called no one seemed to know what was required. It was 
not true to state that he did not reply. He was not happy with the outcome and did not think 
that our review had been objective. He also said that he had asked that the security details 
be the same for the new and old accounts and this did not happen. HSBC had claimed he 
had failed security checks but there was no record of this.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 7 July 2020. I set out below what I said.
I said I thought that the director has now had the opportunity to put all Bs evidence about 
what happened forward. I said I was looking here at issues dealt with in the final response 
letters from HSBC dated 4 July 2019, 17 July 2019, 30 July 2019, 4 November 2019, 13 
December 2019 and 21 January 2020. And I had its related business file about this. There is 
no specific complaint about the director not meeting security requirements and so I wasnt 
looking at that here.
the background
HSBC accepts that in February 2019 B was not told it needed a new account. B has 
provided a screen shot from online banking taken on 4 July 2019 showing the account 
description as already being for a limited company. And so, I understood why it didnt think 
that there was any problem with the way the account was set up. Instead a new account 
application ought to have started in or before February 2019. Such an application would not 
have overlapped with this safeguard process. And it seemed unlikely to me that the 
safeguard process which started in May 2019 would have been needed at all for a new 
account about which similar checks would have recently been made.
I knew that there was a discrepancy in the details of the shareholding for B. While I agreed 
that this was down to B to resolve, I thought the reason for the application not proceeding 
would have been much clearer if there had not been a parallel safeguard exercise going on. 
To me there was considerable confusion caused about the purpose of the safeguard 
exercise - which was to maintain the old account - and the new account opening process. B 
says it contacted HSBC in August 2019 after it received the closure letter saying that it 
believed this was being used as an excuse to close its account. The director says I was 
assured I was wrong, and that the process was perhaps still ongoing. B considered it had 
done what it needed to do to have an account and therefore did not expect its account to be 
restricted from 1 November 2019.
B accepts that it can be difficult to get hold of the director. HSBC says attempts were made 
to call him, but I didnt know if any specific messages were left by the business manager. 
Unfortunately, Bs new application was suspended after 40 days as there had been no 
response. B says it received calls from the safeguard team. And I accepted when the 
director called back there was likely a lack of clarity about what was required. Thats 
especially because there was never any prospect of the sole trader account continuing 
whatever B had provided. And I didnt think it was clear enough that the issue was with the 
application for a new account.
my assessment
The safeguard exercise is part of a legitimate requirement of HSBC to check and update its 
information about businesses. So, I didnt agree with Bs complaint about the nature and any 
inherent inconvenience in that process. However, as I indicated above had B been given the 
correct information about the requirement for a new account it would not have been 
necessary. And all the time B spent after May 2019 completing safeguard forms online and 
discussing them was wasted. It could never have satisfied the requirements for the existing 
account as its legal structure had changed. Once that became evident to HSBC the only 
focus in my view ought to have been on the new account application. But the business 
manager did not tell the safeguard team that and there was still an overlap between the 
processes. While that is clearer now with the benefit of looking back at all the evidence, I 
didnt think that it was at all clear to B at the time.HSBC made an error in February 2019 and did not do enough to correct the consequences 
of this for B. I thought that this led to disruption and inconvenience to B, a trading business. I 
didnt consider that the compensation offered reflects the level of that especially taking into 
account the time period over which this continued. As our investigators said we dont tend to 
make awards based on units of time spent. And where we do, we would apply a modest 
hourly rate, not professional rates. Here Id looked at the overall impact and what I thought is 
reasonable. I had applied my own judgement and I considered the appropriate amount of 
compensation is £500  and which means a further payment of £250 to B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it would accept my decision and pay the extra compensation. The director of B 
said that he did not think raising additional detail would change things and said that he 
accepted my findings.
In view of this I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
Putting things right
The appropriate amount of total compensation remains £500 and this means a further 
payment to B of £250. It would be helpful if B can nominate the account to pay this money 
into if as anticipated it accepts this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay B total 
compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman