DRN-3350474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C went on holiday to a country Ill refer to as C in February 2020 and intended to 
return to the UK in early April 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation 
declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. On 23 March 2020 the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK citizens to return home. 
Mr and Mrs Cs original flight home was cancelled by the airline. They explained that they 
booked flights in May and June. The third flight they booked went ahead and they returned 
to the UK in June 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C claimed on their travel insurance policy for additional car hire costs for the 
time they were stuck in C. UKI agreed to pay the maximum benefit available under the policy 
for delay, totalling £500. They also said that they would consider the additional car hire costs 
if Mr and Mrs C could demonstrate theyd tried to come home early. Mr and Mrs C werent 
able to provide that evidence and so UKI hasnt paid the hire car costs. They complained to 
UKI but the decision to decline the claim was maintained. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that 
UKI had acted reasonably by offering the delay benefit and by stepping outside the policy 
terms to offer cover under the curtailment section of the policy. He thought it was reasonable 
for UKI to ask for evidence they tried to return home early as this wasnt something the 
policy actually covered.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that 
the lack of evidence shouldnt prevent the insurer from paying the claim. And they said they 
were elderly and not able to use internet and emails  so there was no paper trail they could 
rely on. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs Cs holiday wasnt cut short. They were due to return to the UK in April 
2020 but didnt return until June 2020. So, they had to stay abroad longer than 
planned. 
This means that, strictly speaking, there is no cover under the policy for cutting the 
holiday short  because Mr and Mrs C didnt do that. But, I think UKI has fairly 
offered to consider cover under this section of the policy if Mr and Mrs C can show 
they tried to come home before their original return date in April 2020. I think thats 
reasonable because the FCDO advised all citizens to return home on 23 March 
2020. 
The evidence theyve provided shows that they booked flights in May and June 2020. 
But these werent attempts to return home early as the bookings were after the 
original planned return date of April 2020. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs C cant provide a paper trail showing what 
they tried to do to get home. But, its for them to demonstrate that they have a valid 
claim under the policy. And, UKI has reasonably offered to consider their claim even 
though it doesnt fall under the curtailment section. So, I think its reasonable for them 
to ask for evidence that they attempted to come home early, in line with the relevant 
FCDO advice. 
UKI has paid the maximum delay benefit of £250 per person to Mr and Mrs C. The 
policy only covers delays if Mr and Mrs C had checked in. But, again, UKI has agreed 
to pay the claim anyway, given the circumstances. I think thats reasonable. 
Despite there being no cover under the policy I think UKI has acted fairly by offering 
the full benefit for delay and offering to cover the additional costs if theres evidence 
Mr and Mrs C tried to book an earlier flight to cut short their trip. I dont think there are 
any fair and reasonable grounds upon which I can ask UKI to take any further action.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman