DRN-2963084
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 18 December 2019, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline. The agreement was for £4,695 over 60 months; with 59 monthly 
repayments of £119.74 and a final payment of £129.74. At the time, the car was six years 
old and had done 90,245 miles. 
In March 2020, after driving 2,278 miles, the car broke down due to a failed timing belt. This, 
along with the spark plugs, oil, oil filter, coolant and coolant cap were all replaced by the 
supplying dealership, under warranty and at no cost to Mr M, on 11 March 2020.
Mr M had more problems with the car in March 2021 and repairs were done. But there were 
still problems with the engine, which eventually cut out and wouldnt restart in late March 
2021. Mr M obtained an independent engineers report which concluded that the engine may 
have been damaged as a result of the timing belt failure.
Mr M complained to Startline, asking to reject the car. But Startline didnt agree to the 
rejection, so Mr M brought his complaint to us for investigation. During the course of our 
investigation, Mr M voluntarily surrendered the car back to Startline.
Our investigator said that the expected lifespan of a timing belt was 60,000 to 100,000 miles; 
and the timing belt had failed after 92,523 miles. So she thought the timing belt had reached 
the end of its natural life, and replacing it was a wear and tear issue. Given this, and that Mr 
M had been able to drive the car for more than 2,000 miles before the timing belt failed, the 
investigator thought the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M. And 
she didnt think Startline needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think the car was fit for purpose when it 
was supplied to him, and that the car was dangerous to drive. Because Mr M didnt agree, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr M to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
When Mr M took possession of the car, it was six years old and had done 90,245 miles. Id 
expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age which had done significant mileage. And 
I think that any reasonable person would expect major components to need replacing much 
sooner than with a low mileage car, and for there to be costs associated with this.
In March 2020, the timing belt failed at 92,523 miles  2,278 miles after the car was supplied 
to Mr M. As the investigator explained, a timing belt would usually be expected to last in the 
region of 60,000 to 100,000 miles. And Ive seen nothing to show me that Mr M was told that 
the timing belt had been replaced before he took possession of the car. So it would be 
reasonable for Mr M to have to expect to replace the timing belt on the car as part of any 
regular ongoing maintenance. 
On 10 March 2021, Mr M had the bank one sensor, the crank shaft sensor, the ignition coil 
and the spark plugs replaced after the car had broken down. This cost him £330. Ive not 
seen anything to show me what the mileage on the car was at the point of this repair. But the 
MOT that took place on 3 December 2020 recorded the mileage at 99,303 miles. So its 
more than likely that the car had travelled over 100,000 miles at the point of this breakdown.
The car broke down again in late March 2021, with engine issues. Ive seen a copy of the 
independent engineers report dated 10 May 2021. At the point of inspection the car had 
done 101,227 miles  10,982 miles since being supplied to Mr M. And, as Mr M was still in 
possession of the failed timing belt, this was also inspected.
The engineer said the timing belt revealed considerable age perishing with cracks in the 
rubber  with tooth shear having occurred [and] fatigue cracking at the base of all the 
remaining, intact teeth. The engineer went on to say that failure of the timing belt inevitably 
causes a loss of camshaft timing [and] sub-optimal engine operation due to damage accrued 
during timing belt failure is not ruled out. 
The engineer concluded their opinion of the timing belt failure was that it was directly 
attributed to long-term age-related wear and tear, [and wear and tear] continued to progress 
[during] the current vehicle owners tenure to point it has fractured [which] resulted in 
consequential engine damage. The engineer didnt say that the tooth shear (which had caused the failure of the timing belt) 
was present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr M. And the engineer was 
quite clear that the timing belt failed due to age-related wear and tear; wear and tear that 
continued while Mr M was in possession of the car.
Mr M was also able to drive more than 2,000 miles before the timing belt failed. And, if the 
timing belt was worn to the point of failure when the car was supplied to him, I dont think 
hed have been able to do this. So, and while I appreciate that the timing belt failure was the 
likely case of the damage to the engine that caused it to stop working some 12-months later; 
Im satisfied that the timing belt failure was because of age-related wear and tear due to the 
age and mileage of the car. So I dont think this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr M, and I wont be asking Startline to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman