DRN-2969195
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) rejected his application to open a bank 
account with it.
What happened
Mr M applied for an account online on 4 April 2020. Shortly after his application was made, 
HSBC asked him take documentation into a branch to verify his identity and address. As he 
was abroad, Mr M says he contacted HSBC and it was agreed he could upload the 
information. He says he then had numerous messages telling him the evidence wasnt 
acceptable and so he sent other documents. Mr M says he called HSBC on various 
occasions but, as he was abroad, this was costly. He says he called the bank as his emails 
werent responded to or the call handler asked him to call back as the department he needed 
to speak to was closed. 
In May 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr M to confirm it wouldnt proceed with his application. 
Mr M was unhappy with the decision and complained to HSBC. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It apologised for any inconvenience its decision caused and the time it took for Mr 
M to speak to the bank on the phone  a service which it said had seen a significant 
increase due to the pandemic - but explained it wouldnt cover his call costs.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. He wanted to know the reason for the 
decision. Also, he found it inconvenient to keep supplying information to HSBC throughout 
the application process as well as the cost of long calls he made to HSBC. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint against HSBC. Mr M didnt agree and the case 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
A bank carries out a number of checks to ensure its satisfied before agreeing to provide a 
product or service to a potential customer. And we wont usually interfere with a banks 
commercial decision not to provide a product or service to a customer, as long as that 
decision has been made fairly and reasonably. 
HSBC undertook a number of checks when Mr M applied for the bank account to confirm, for 
example, Mr Ms identity and address. I note it asked him for further documents and this was 
inconvenient to him but I dont consider it unreasonable when HSBC did this. HSBC have 
sent to our service details about the checks they carried out and theyre the types of checks 
Id expect to see for such an application. Unfortunately, this information is commercially 
sensitive and so Im not able to share it with Mr M. But I do want to assure him that Ive 
considered this information carefully. Having done so, it shows HSBC considered his 
application and the information obtained before deciding not to provide the account. And I 
consider that this decision was made fairly and reasonably.
I understand Mr M wants to know why his application was rejected. However, the reasons 
are commercially sensitive and I wouldnt expect HSBC to provide further information. This is 
because providing information about why an application is rejected could undermine the 
effectiveness of the checks that are carried out. 
I appreciate Mr M wanted to discuss matters with HSBC rather than wait for replies to emails 
or discuss it through the chat facility. And that, when Mr M did call them, HSBC had 
increased call volumes which meant it took longer to answer his calls than it wouldve liked. 
However, it progressed Mr Ms application quickly so I dont think he needed to contact them 
on the phone, particularly as he was abroad and says it was expensive to do so. It also 
responded promptly when he raised concerns. In all the circumstances, I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything to put things right in relation to the calls Mr M made.
In summary, I dont consider that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting Mr Ms 
application for a bank account. Nor do I consider it needs to explain the reasons for this to 
Mr M or cover the cost of his calls. It follows that I dont uphold his complaint in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman