DRN-3246973
The complaint
Miss B complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to her 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss B was given a loan by MCF in December 2019. She borrowed £1,500 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Miss B appears to have faced some problems 
repaying the loan and a balance remained outstanding when she made her complaint.
I am aware that Miss B has also raised concerns over the operation of a credit card account 
she holds with MCF. But, in this decision, I will only be dealing with the loan she took in 
December 2019. I understand that Miss B intends to raise a separate complaint about her 
credit card account.
Miss Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
results of the checks that MCF performed before agreeing the loan should have led the 
lender to conclude that Miss B was facing problems managing her money. So our 
investigator didnt think the loan should have been agreed, and asked MCF to put things 
right.
MCF accepted our investigators assessment and set out for Miss B the steps it had taken to 
implement the redress that our investigator had recommended. Our investigator thought that 
MCFs actions put things right for Miss B in a fair and reasonable manner. But Miss B was 
unhappy with what MCF had done. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have said earlier, MCF has accepted our investigators assessment that the loan 
shouldnt have been provided to Miss B. So I dont need to consider any further whether or 
not the loan was lent responsibly. What I need to decide in this decision is whether the steps 
MCF has taken to put things right are fair, or if not, what else the lender should be directed 
to do.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In the case of irresponsible lending, it isnt possible to place a consumer back into the exact 
position they would have been had the loan not been agreed. The loan was provided, and 
the consumer has had the benefit of that capital. In all bar exceptional circumstances I would 
think it reasonable that the capital that was lent should be repaid. But I dont think a lender 
should benefit from its irresponsible lending  so I dont think it should receive any interest, 
or levy any other charges, as a result of the loan.
Here, in common with many other loans, the total interest that will be payable is calculated at 
the outset of the loan, and a proportion is paid as part of each monthly repayment. Should a 
consumer decide to exercise their right to end a loan early, a proportionate refund of the 
interest would be made. So it is relatively easy for MCF to demonstrate the amounts of 
capital and interest that formed Miss Bs borrowing.
The credit agreement that Miss B signed set out that she was borrowing £1,500. And that 
she would be charged interest of £968.52. So those amounts combined gave the total 
amount that Miss B would need to pay of £2,468.52. That was the balance of Miss Bs loan 
account at the start, and what would reduce as she made any repayments.
So to put things right, our investigator asked MCF to reduce the outstanding balance by the 
total of any interest or charges that had been paid to date. And to ensure that any remaining 
balance isnt subject to interest or charges either.
Miss B has only repaid a small part of the capital she borrowed. And based on what I said 
earlier I do think the whole amount of capital should be repaid. So by deducting the whole of 
the interest that was added at the outset of the loan from Miss Bs outstanding balance 
I think that MCF has fully complied with what our investigator asked it to do. And for the 
avoidance of doubt, those are the directions I would have given had I upheld the complaint.
So I think that what MCF has done is reasonable. I will repeat those steps below, but from 
the evidence I have seen I dont think MCF needs to do anything further in order to put 
things right.
There are two other matters that I should address at this point in my decision. As Miss B will 
see from my directions below, MCF has been directed to remove any adverse information 
from her credit file in relation to this loan. The information that MCF is being asked to remove 
is that which is already in place. Should Miss B fail to meet any repayment arrangement in 
the future in relation to the outstanding capital balance it wouldnt be unreasonable for MCF 
to reflect that delinquency on her credit file. And given that the removal of the historic 
information is to a degree outside of MCFs control it might take a short period of time for any 
changes to be reflected on Miss Bs credit file.
I also direct below that MCF should treat Miss B positively and sympathetically when 
discussing the repayment of the outstanding capital balance. But that doesnt mean it would 
be unreasonable for MCF to follow its normal debt collection approach should Miss B fail to 
repay what she owes. I have seen that MCF made an offer to Miss B to pay a reduced 
amount to settle her loan  although that might have implications in terms of her credit 
reporting. I dont think that offer is inconsistent with what I have directed MCF to do to put 
things right  but as the letter from MCF explained, Miss B doesnt need to accept the offer.
 
Putting things right
MCF has accepted that it shouldnt have lent to Miss B in December 2019. Unless it has 
already done so, MCF should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Miss B has made towards this loan as payments towards the capitalif reworking Miss Bs loan account as Ive directed results in Miss B effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MCF should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
if, as seems likely, reworking Miss Bs loan account leaves an amount of capital still 
to be paid, then I remind MCF that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B
remove any adverse information already recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to 
the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest. MCF must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman