DRN-3793907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage protection policy from Bank of 
Scotland Plc (BoS) alongside their mortgage lending in October 2006. 
Mr and Mrs W submit that the policy was unaffordable for them and this then caused them to 
have to sell Mrs Ws business to raise further capital. They also say the policy wasnt wanted 
or needed because they had appropriate cover, but it was forced upon them anyway. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their Total Mortgage Protection Plan alongside a mortgage advance. 
It comprised life assurance and critical illness cover with a sum assured matching their 
mortgage lending of £106,306. The policy was set up on a level term basis, and it ended in 
April 2007. 
In 2019, they enquired with BoS about payment protection insurance (PPI). It was as part of 
these enquiries that a complaint was pursued about their mortgage protection policy. Mr and 
Mrs W said that they had been unhappy with the increases to their payments, and this 
caused them to sell Mrs Ws business in order to reduce their mortgage debt by £20,000.  
In January 2020, BoS upheld the complaint. It issued Mr and Mrs W a cheque for £826.65, 
made up of a £450.59 refund of all premiums paid for the policy along with 8% interest of 
£470.07 and less £94.01 of basic rate tax. 
Mrs W further complained that the compensation did not account for their consequential 
losses. She said that if BoS hadnt mis-sold their policy, theyd have never needed to sell 
Mrs Ws business in order to reduce their outgoings.  
BoS wrote to Mr and Mrs W again. It said it did not agree that any financial difficulties they 
may have suffered were as a consequence of being sold their protection policy, and so no 
further compensation was due. 
Mrs W referred the complaint to this service. However, due to Mr W suffering from a serious 
ill health event, Mrs Ws wellbeing and a family bereavement, Mrs W only revisited the 
complaint with this service in early 2022. She explained that she and Mr W had accepted the 
settlement cheque issued by BoS because they had been told they could still pursue their 
additional concerns about the associated loss they had been caused.   
An investigator from this service considered the complaint. He concluded that BoSs 
proposal to resolve the complaint was fair and in line with what he would have suggested, 
had this service upheld the complaint on the same basis. He did not believe that the cost of 
the policy itself was the reason that Mr and Mrs W sold their business, nor did he believe 
BoS was liable for any financial loss beyond refunding the policy premiums with interest.  
Mr and Mrs W said they disagreed. They said the cost of the policy was wrapped in with their 
mortgage. They said they had managed to repay the mortgage perfectly well until the 
approximate £64 premium was added onto their costs for a policy they hadnt asked for. 
Because the policy wasnt explained to them, they had worried that the mortgage could get 
even higher. Mr and Mrs W said they remained of the view that if BoS had been honest 
about the policy when they made enquiries in 2006, they wouldnt have needed to sell the 
business to make a lump sum mortgage repayment.  
Our investigator was not minded to change his view on the complaint. He clarified with BoS 
that Mr and Mrs Ws protection policy had not been wrapped in with their mortgage payment 
 it was a separate direct debit. Though he understood their concerns about their mortgage 
value, he did not believe this was influenced by the protection policy, and he did not think 
BoS should do anything further to resolve the complaint.  
Mrs W said she and Mr W disagreed and she made a number of further written submissions. 
I have read these in their entirety, though I shant repeat them verbatim here. In summary, 
Mrs W said:
she accepts they hadnt realised that the mortgage repayments werent what they 
should have been;
but they remain of the view that the sale of the policy was what led them to feel 
overstretched; 
that is why they reduced the mortgage balance by using some of the proceeds from 
selling Mrs Ws business;
they also continue to believe that BoS failed to send them clear information about 
their mortgage;
they cannot understand why the policy refund wasnt suggested sooner, around 
2006/2007 when Mrs W had liaised with BoS about the mortgage cost;
they always had their own separate protection policy, so this additional cover was 
never needed;
they question how BoS can get away with only having to pay a refund many years 
later because they complained;
the proposed refund hasnt put them back in the same position as if the policy hadnt 
been mis-sold because the suggested compensation is more than twelve years late;
they feel the decision of this service should be reconsidered in light of their additional 
comments and they wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
BoS didnt have any further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs W. I was sorry to learn 
that things have been difficult for them in recent years, including pursuing this complaint. 
Though my answer wont be what Mr and Mrs W have hoped for, I dont believe this 
complaint should succeed. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
I was pleased to note that whilst it did not give full reasons for doing so, BoS upheld Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of the policy. I also note that the total redress paid to them 
in January 2020 was accepted by Mr and Mrs W at that time  albeit that they continued to 
remain unhappy about the consequence of the sale, which they feel has had additional 
financial detriment.  As the complaint was upheld, I have not seen full evidence of the rationale for the sale of the 
policy. However, on the face of it, I agree with both parties that it did not appear suitable for 
BoS to have recommended to Mr and Mrs W. Firstly, they already had an existing joint 
protection policy; there wasnt a clear documented need for additional cover matching the 
mortgage lending, rather than a lump sum for some other reason, such as family protection.  
Secondly, the policy was recommended on a level term basis  meaning the sum assured 
did not decrease. However, Mr and Mrs W had a capital repayment mortgage borrowing; so 
even if it had been right to propose a protection policy for the lending, Id have expected to 
see a discussion around decreasing term cover, which would have likely been cheaper in 
monthly premiums, as a policy of that type reduces broadly in line with repayment of a debt.  
Where this service upholds a complaint about a mis-sold term assurance policy such as Mr 
and Mrs Ws, the right redress is to place customers back in the financial position they would 
have been in, but for the unsuitable advice. So, in this case that means calculating a refund 
of all the premiums paid. Interest is also added to this calculation at 8% simple from the date 
the premiums were paid to the date the refund is made. So, whilst Mrs W has said it is unfair 
that it took until 2020 for BoS to put things right, the interest award accounts for that delay it 
is a calculation to reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs W have been deprived of that money in the 
intervening years.  
I know that Mrs W feels that the compensation they were paid in 2020 is insufficient because 
there are further losses which they believe have resulted from the sale of the policy. I have 
looked carefully at her arguments about that, but I do not agree with their assertion.  
When Mr and Mrs W took out their policy in October 2006, they were sent a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan  Demands and Needs Statement alongside their mortgage offer 
documentation. On the front page of this document, the mortgage details were set out; this 
confirmed the combined monthly loan repayment amount of £867.76 and the protection 
policy premium of £62.02, giving a total monthly repayment of £929.78. 
Protection policies such as the one taken out by Mr and Mrs W usually have a set policy 
premium from the outset which would not change (unless expressly agreed in defined 
circumstances, such as inflation increases). Mr and Mrs Ws policy premium did not alter and 
would have remained the same, had the cover continued beyond 2007.
Mrs W has explained that, in late 2006, she and Mr W became concerned about the 
mortgage repayment costs increasing. I can see this was the prompt for repaying some of 
the mortgage and changing their employment industry, which necessitated that Mrs W sold 
her business. However, the variation to the mortgage was not because of the protection 
policy, but because of a change to the Bank of England base rate in November 2006.  
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage rate changed because they had a split mortgage type  though 
part was a fixed rate mortgage, the remainder was a tracker mortgage. Accordingly, BoS 
wrote to them to explain that their monthly mortgage repayment would increase to £873.72 
from December 2006. It did the same when the rate went up a further 0.25% in January 
2007, noting that from February 2007 the mortgage repayment would be £877.27. 
Mrs W has confirmed to our investigator that for this reason they made the overpayment of 
£20,000 in March 2007; this had the required effect of reducing the repayments to £703.52. 
It is correct that if an ombudsman upholds a complaint at this service, our Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules (as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook) allow for the 
ombudsman to make a money award, which can include consequential or prospective loss. However, the loss claimed for here  the need for Mrs W to sell her business for affordability 
reasons  was because of the change to Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage repayment 
which varied as a result of the base rate change impacting their tracker mortgage, not 
because they were sold a protection policy in October 2006. 
This complaint is solely about the sale of the protection policy. Since I do not believe the 
recommendation to take out the policy had any bearing on Mr and Mrs Ws decision to sell 
Mrs Ws business (which was, in fact, a choice they made in order to reduce their mortgage 
repayment), I do not believe BoS is required to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
I do not agree that the need to raise funds from Mrs Ws business sale arose because of any 
consequence of Mr and Mrs W being unable to pay their £62 mortgage protection policy 
premiums. BoS has already rightly compensated them for the mis-sale of the policy by 
returning those premiums, with interest. I have not seen evidence that it ought to be liable for 
any other losses.  
If Mr and Mrs W consider they concerns in respect of the affordability of their mortgage 
lending from 2006, that would need to be pursued with BoS as a fresh complaint. I make no 
findings about the sale of the mortgage in the context of this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not believe Bank of Scotland plc needs to do anything further to settle this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman