DRN-1123913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that they were charged a £530 valuation fee by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC when they think it should have only been £370. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays through a mortgage broker. 
They believed the valuation fee would be £370 but it turned out to be £530. Unhappy with 
this they complained to Barclays.
Barclays rejected the complaint, saying the fee was higher because it was a multi-unit 
property; that is Mr and Mrs T were buying a house that had two self-contained flats within it, 
so each flat needed to be valued separately.
Our investigator said Barclays hadn't done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs T were disappointed 
with that as they said they didn't know where the figures had come from. They asked that 
their complaint be reviewed, so it's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T's mortgage broker filled in the Barclays mortgage application online. One of 
the questions asked was "Is the new mortgage for a freehold property split into self-
contained units which are let on an individual basis?" 
Because the broker answered "Yes" to that question a warning came up saying "If the 
property is arranged as more than one unit, additional valuation fees will be payable." To 
which the broker answered "Ok".
On 20 September 2018 Barclays emailed the broker to ask for confirmation of the values of 
each flat within the property. It went on to say "This is required for valuation purposes and 
the fee is likely to be higher than the amount of £370 indicated."
The broker replied later that day "Values of each of the flats within the subject property - The 
downstairs flat circa £295,000 and the upstairs flat £275,000."
Based on that information the valuation fee for each flat was £265, which gave a total of 
£530.
Having considered everything I'm satisfied Barclays did nothing wrong in charging Mr and 
Mrs T £530 for the valuation for their buy-to-let mortgage application as that fee matches its 
tariff of charges when each flat is considered separately. In such cases each flat needs to be 
inspected, so separate valuation fees are applicable. I'm satisfied Barclays based the fee on 
the information provided by Mr and Mrs T's broker and that it was entitled to rely on that information. All things considered there are no grounds for me to uphold this complaint 
against Barclays.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman