DRN-4072804
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) handled his loan 
account.
Mr S wants Sainsburys to pay him substantial compensation. 
What happened
Mr S has a loan with Sainsburys. On a few occasions, Mr S asked Sainsburys to change 
his loan repayment date. Mr S says that Sainsburys told him this wasnt possible.
In October 2022, Mr S asked Sainsburys to delay a loan repayment as he wouldnt have 
sufficient funds in his bank account. Sainsburys told Mr S that it couldnt change the date as 
the direct debit was due be taken from his bank account the next day.
Mr S says Sainsburys told him that it would try and change the payment due date for 
October 2022. If Sainsburys was successful in changing the payment date, Mr S would then 
have to make a manual payment. However, if Sainsburys couldnt change the date and the 
direct debit was returned as unpaid, Sainsburys would then retry the direct debit.
Mr S says that Sainsburys attempted to take the payment on 25 October 2022 so he could 
see that it hadnt been able to change the payment date as requested. Mr S then expected 
Sainsburys to retry the direct debit within the next seven days. After Sainsburys didnt do 
this, Mr S says he tried to make contact several times without success. 
Mr S complained to Sainsburys asking why it hadnt taken the payment as scheduled. He 
says he asked for details of how to make the payment online but didnt receive any reply.   
Mr S wanted Sainsburys to confirm that it hadnt reported the missed payment to the credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr S is unhappy that Sainsburys has reported missed payments which have impacted his 
credit file and his work. Mr S says he suffers from a health condition which makes it difficult 
to speak on the telephone. Mr S says Sainsburys has denied him the ability to pay the loan 
instalments in October, November, and December 2022. Mr S had enough money to make 
the payments but Sainsburys failed to take them. 
Mr S wants Sainsburys to compensate him for insisting that he speaks on the phone and for 
the inconvenience caused to him. 
After considering everything the investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be 
upheld. In summary the investigator thought that Mr S asked Sainsburys to suspend his 
direct debit payment in October 2022. And that Sainsburys told Mr S hed need to make a 
manual payment if this happened. 
The investigator also told Mr S that hed listened to a call recording in which Sainsburys 
explained that Mr S would need to make a payment in August 2022 if the next loan payment 
date was to be moved to 10 September 2022. The investigator agreed that the loan should 
be paid every month so it wasnt possible to skip the August payment.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators recommendation and said there has been bias on the 
part of this service. 
Mr S said the investigation is incomplete and that we need to consider the impact of 
Sainsburys failure to provide him with details of how to make a manual payment, which lead 
to missed payments from November 2022. Mr S said he repeatedly asked for this 
information by email.   
Mr S said Sainsburys failed to change the due date for his loan payments after multiple 
requests. Mr S said Sainsburys caused the missed payment in October 2022 and then 
reported that missed payment. 
Mr S said that once Sainsburys gave him the payment information by email on 1 March 
2023, he brought his account up to date within 48 hours.
Mr S was unhappy that the investigator didnt listen to calls from later in November 2022 
when he told Sainsburys he hadnt been receiving post. Mr S provided evidence which he 
said showed hed had problems receiving post from other businesses. 
The investigator responded to Mr Ss concerns. In summary, the investigator explained that 
in August 2022, Mr S wasnt just asking to change his payment date  he was asking to 
move it to the next month. And that by doing this, Mr S wouldve missed a payment which 
wasnt allowed under the terms of his loan agreement.
The investigator thought Sainsburys told Mr S that hed have to make a manual loan 
payment if the direct debit was suspended. The investigator thought it was reasonable for 
Sainsburys to report the missed payment to the credit reference agencies. 
The investigator was satisfied that Sainsburys wrote to Mr S with details of how to make a 
manual payment. And that in July 2022 Mr S had made a manual payment over the phone, 
so was aware of how to do this.
The investigator noted Mr Ss medical condition which made it difficult to speak over the 
phone but said that Sainsburys had given him the option to pay online or by post.
The investigator told Mr S that any failure by Sainsburys to respond to emails later in 
November and early December 2022 happened after hed complained. So, Mr S would first 
need to complain to Sainsburys before this service could consider this aspect further.
Finally, the investigator told Mr S that if he thought Sainsburys had failed to respond to his 
requests for email contact, despite explaining about his difficulties with receiving post and his 
medical condition impacting his ability to speak on the phone, Mr S would need to bring 
these concerns to Sainsburys as they didnt form part of his original complaint.
Mr S remains very unhappy and asked for further evidence and information to be 
considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr Ss complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
During this complaint, Mr S has raised further concerns about the way that Sainsburys 
handled his loan account. My decision looks at the events leading up to and including 
October 2022. If Mr S is unhappy about Sainsburys actions after this date, as the 
investigator explained, he will need to go back to Sainsburys so it can investigate further.
Mr S says he wanted to change his loan payment date and that Sainsburys refused. I can 
see that Mr S had discussions about changing the date, including during a call in mid-August 
2022. Ive listened to this call recording and dont agree that Sainsburys wouldnt change the 
date. Instead, Sainsburys explained that Mr S would need to make a payment in August 
2022 and could then change the date from September onwards. 
I can appreciate Mr S was unhappy that hed need to make two payments close together but 
a payment was due every month. Sainsburys wasnt asking Mr S to make two payments in 
the same month. And Sainsburys explained to Mr S who he would need to speak to so that 
the date could be changed. So, I dont think Sainsburys unfairly refused to change the loan 
payment date.
When Mr S spoke with Sainsburys in October 2022, he wanted to try and delay the payment 
by a week or so. Sainsburys told Mr S that as the payment was due to be made the next 
day, the direct debit would have already been called for. Sainsburys told Mr S that if there 
were insufficient funds, the direct debit would be retried within the next 10 days.
After Mr S asked Sainsburys if it would offer him forbearance to try and prevent the payment 
going through that month. Sainsburys told Mr S that it could cancel or suspend the direct 
debit. Mr S asked Sainsburys to try and suspend the direct debit which it did. The effect of 
this was that although there was a first attempt to take payment by direct debit the next day, 
there wasnt a second attempt so Mr S missed his October 2022 payment.
As I understand Mr Ss point about the October 2022 payment  he thought that if the 
suspension of his direct debit didnt take effect in October 2022, it would then roll over to 
November 2022 at which time hed have to make a manual payment for November. 
However, I think it wouldve been reasonably clear to Mr S that Sainsburys didnt take his 
October payment and that he should make a manual payment instead. 
I appreciate Mr S says Sainsburys didnt tell him how to make a manual payment but Ive 
seen copies of the letters that Sainsburys sent to him after the payment was missed in 
October 2022. Sainsburys letter of 9 November 2022 set out the arrears on the account and 
gave three different ways to make the payment, including by post. 
Although Mr S doesnt recall receiving these letters, Im satisfied that Sainsburys sent them. 
I cant blame Sainsburys for any failure with the postal service. Sainsburys also referred to 
the letters during a call in late November 2022. Mr S said it was irrelevant whether hed 
received them and said there could be many reasons why he didnt call sooner. If Mr S 
hadnt received the letters, I wouldve reasonably expected him to make this clear to 
Sainsburys at the time but I cant hear that he did. As Mr S didnt bring his account up to 
date in October/November 2022, I dont think Sainsburys was wrong to report a late 
payment. 
Mr S says he told Sainsburys that he had difficulties discussing his account over the phone 
due to a medical condition. Im very sorry that this was the case, but I cant see any other 
evidence of Mr S discussing his medical condition with Sainsburys when he was asking to 
move the payment date in October 2022. I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision and that things have moved on 
since he first brought his complaint to this service. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I 
dont uphold Mr Ss complaint as I dont find that Sainsburys was to blame for him missing 
the loan repayment in October 2022. And Im not persuaded that Sainsburys unfairly 
refused to change Mr Ss loan repayment date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman