DRN-2871753
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC have handled a refund on her credit 
card.
What happened
In 2019, Miss B agreed with her friends to buy some concert tickets using her credit card. 
Her friends then paid their share of the cost to her in instalments. But the concert was later 
cancelled. The cost of the tickets was refunded to Miss Bs credit card. But because there 
was a negative balance on the card, Miss B couldnt just take the refund out of the credit 
card account. 
Miss B asked Barclays to give her the refunded money so she could repay her friends. But 
Barclays said they wouldnt. Miss B felt that was unfair, and complained. Barclays offered 
Miss B a month without interest if she wanted to make a cash withdrawal from the credit card 
account, but wouldnt just give the refund to her. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. Our investigator felt Barclays had acted reasonably, 
because their decision was in line with the terms and conditions for the card. Miss B 
disagreed with that view, and commented that she felt the global pandemic meant banks 
should be acting with more goodwill in cases like this. She said while she could afford to pay 
the card off now, there was a principle to her complaint that meant she shouldnt have to.
The complaints come to me for a further review, and a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I cant see Barclays have made any mistakes with how theyve managed the refund here. Its 
been added to Miss Bs balance, reducing what she owes them by that much. Their terms 
cover this sort of thing, where they say theyll offset money owed to Miss B against money 
she owes them. 
Miss Bs had the benefit of the refunds, in as much as she no longer has to pay that much 
money to Barclays. But she wants to pass that on to her friends, who she had an informal 
agreement with to share the debt. 
Miss Bs talked about some of the measures banks have taken to help their customers 
during the coronavirus pandemic. Shes right that this has meant banks acting other than 
how their terms and conditions say they will, where its fair to their customers to do so. 
But this doesnt seem to be a case where thats needed from Barclays. Yes, the concert was 
cancelled because of measures to reduce the virus being spread. But that seems to be the 
extent of the impact the pandemic has had on the case. Its not left Miss B in the sort of 
financial difficulty that has led to banks taking exceptional steps to help their customers, as 
far as I can see. 
Miss B said on one of her calls with our investigator that she could afford to repay her credit 
card, in full. That tells me she can afford to refund her friends  and so pass on the benefit of 
the concert tickets being refunded  without financial difficulty. That leads me to conclude 
theres no need for Barclays to change their approach in this case. 
Barclays agreement with Miss B said they would offset refunds like this against what she 
owed them, overall. Theyve done that, in circumstances that dont call for them to take any 
exceptional steps to support their customer. So I find the service provided has been 
reasonable here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman