DRN-3664599
The complaint
Mr K complains about the actions of The Co-operative Bank Plc when he requested a 
refund.
What happened
Mr K bought a tool which he later found to be faulty using his Co-op credit card in September 
2021. He requested a refund of the money hed paid for the tool (about £116) from the card 
scheme through Co-op. 
Mr K said that there were problems making the refund claim via email and telephone with 
Co-op. Mr K told Co-op on 29 November 2021 that he was trying to make contact regarding 
a claim. Eventually he spoke with a staff member who refunded the amount to his account 
on 8 December. After this he was contacted in late December by another staff member who 
requested further information about the claim and raised the possibility of Co-op reclaiming 
the refund. It seems the refund had been made in error prior to the money being requested 
from the card scheme. 
Mr K wanted to make a complaint about this but didnt find the process straightforward. He 
complained to Co-op in January 2022 and also to us. Mr K told us that hed spent about 12 
hours on the phone dealing with this matter, and had messaged and emailed the bank. He 
also said he found the response from Co-op about reclaiming the refund intimidating and 
worrying. In order to resolve his complaint Mr K wanted the bank to confirm that he could 
keep his refund and to compensate him for his time and distress. He also asked for an 
apology and said that Co-op should improve their contact and complaint arrangements.
Co-op sent a final response letter to Mr K in February 2022 saying that it upheld his 
complaint although it didnt agree with all of his points. It apologised for the frustration, upset 
and poor customer service hed experienced. It confirmed that Mr K could keep his refund 
and that it would not continue to investigate his claim with the card scheme and so didnt 
require any further information from him. Co-op also offered Mr K £200 as an apology for his 
poor experience.  
Mr K responded to this letter and Co-op reviewed his complaint. It upheld two further aspects 
of his complaint and went into more detail about the actions it took regarding giving feedback 
to the staff members involved in this matter. Co-op apologised again and offered Mr K a 
further £75 compensation. 
Mr K emailed Co-op in March 2022 to say that he accepted the offer of £275 compensation 
but because some aspects of his complaint remained in dispute he would continue with his 
referral to us. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. They agreed that the communication and 
service Mr K received from Co-op could have been better however, they found that the 
resolution offered by Co-op was fair and reasonable. They didnt recommend that Co-op 
took any further action. Mr K disagreed with this recommendation and asked for his 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the case are known to both parties so I wont set out what happened in further 
detail. I want to reassure Co-op and Mr K that I have reviewed all the information available to 
me and taken into consideration everything thats been said.
Mr K said in response to our investigators recommendation that he feels further 
compensation is warranted because of the unacceptable level of obstruction (to making a 
complaint) and threat he experienced when he was told that his refund might be rescinded. 
Mr K said that hes spent far too much time and effort on this matter which has been ongoing 
for nine months, and that he felt he was treated as though hed acted fraudulently. In order to 
resolve his complaint he would like the bank to pay him further compensation in line with this 
Services approach to such awards. 
Mr K referred to the approach set out on our website which includes examples of awards of 
over £300 and up to £750 where a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and 
worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort 
out. Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or months. Mr K also referred to examples 
of awards of over £750 and up to £1,500 where a business's mistake has caused 
substantial distress, upset and worry  even potentially a serious offence or humiliation. 
There may have been serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact 
felt over many months. 
Let me begin by saying that I appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling about his experience and 
I am sorry to hear of the impact this has had on him. There isnt a specific calculation for 
awards to compensate for the emotional impact of errors. As mentioned we have an 
approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when making this decision. 
I dont think compensation of over £750 would be appropriate in this case as I cant find that 
this matter caused serious disruption to Mr Ks daily life over a sustained period or caused 
him substantial distress. This level of compensation might be appropriate for errors resulting 
in property damage, for example, or the loss of tens of thousands of pounds. I dont think an 
amount approaching £750 would be appropriate either. This level of compensation might be 
appropriate for errors resulting in the loss of a utility service, for example, or adverse 
information being recorded on someones credit file or public record.
I appreciate that it has taken until now for us to provide a decision to Mr K, however it was 
up to him whether to accept the resolution offered by Co-op in February 2022 or pursue his 
complaint further. In addition, I havent seen anything in the available information to suggest 
to me that Mr Ks circumstances were such that this experience was likely to have a far 
greater impact on him than it might have had on someone else.
Even if I were to consider that a compensation amount of over £300 would be appropriate, 
Co-op offered Mr K £275 in addition to allowing the refund to remain on his account. It 
accepted its errors and apologised to Mr K. Altogether, Ive concluded that Co-op offered 
Mr K a fair and reasonable level of compensation in the circumstances of this case and I am 
not asking it to make a further award.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint and dont require 
The Co-operative Bank Plc to do anything more than it has already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman