DRN-1651403
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
September 1999 alongside a credit card. Miss D, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading at Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From what Ive seen I think BoS made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the 
PPI. Ive seen that an X was put in the box on the application form to show she 
wanted PPI. And given that the sale happened in a meeting at a branch, I think she 
would have had the opportunity to review her application details before she signed 
the form. So on balance I think she knew she was buying PPI as part of her credit 
card application. But given that the length of time since the sale, its easy to 
understand why she cant remember this.
 
BoS recommended the PPI to Miss D so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted to have this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong and she found she needed a way to keep up with her credit card payments. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Miss D hasnt told us about any employer benefits she might have relied on, or other 
financial resources. So the PPI, which would have paid out up to 12 months if she couldnt 
work due to accident or sickness or if she lost her job, would have been a worthwhile benefit 
for her. 
Overall, I havent seen anything else about the sale that makes me think that something 
went wrong that could have led to the PPI being mis-sold. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss D paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Miss D back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. And from what Ive seen BoS has already 
paid this to Miss D. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman