DRN-1690863
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home insurance with St Andrews 
Insurance plc. The policy covered buildings and contents including accidental damage and 
legal expenses.
What happened
Miss Ks insurance policy with St Andrews started in 2007. It initially cost £310 for the year. 
The next year, 2008, Miss Ks insurance cost £348. 
In 2017, the renewal quote was for £1,141. At this time, Miss K says the premiums became 
unaffordable, so she shopped around. She found she could get insurance much cheaper 
elsewhere. She spoke to St Andrews, which provided a quote for a new policy. But Miss K 
chose to take out insurance elsewhere and cancelled her St Andrews policy. She then 
complained to St Andrews that shed been overcharged.
St Andrews said it had calculated the premiums correctly according to the risk of providing 
the insurance. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss K Disagreed, so Ive been 
asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Miss K 
fairly throughout the period she held its insurance policy.
If I find that St Andrews hasnt treated Miss K fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair and reasonable. However, in this case Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I would like to explain that an insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing 
the premium at renewal  and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this.  
Miss Ks policy with St Andrews started in 2007. She paid extra to protect her no claims 
bonus in case she made a claim, which made the policy more expensive. She made claims 
in 2008, 2009 and 2011, but the effect of those claims was reduced by the no claims bonus 
protection that shed paid for. At the 2012 renewal, Miss K contacted St Andrews and obtained a discount. So, I dont think 
that Miss K didnt engage with the price of the policy over an extended period, as is the case 
with some customers.
In 2014, Miss K contacted St Andrews again, and amended the policy to reflect that the 
property had been converted from three bedrooms to five. This caused an increase in the 
premium, but she also obtained a discount, which reduced the effect of this. St Andrews 
also provided a quote for a new alternative policy, but Miss K declined to change policies as 
she felt the new policy wouldnt have provided adequate cover for her contents. 
Having considered what St Andrews has said about the price increases on Miss Ks policy, 
Im satisfied it increased as a result of the claims made and the changes she made to her 
cover. And the price reflected St Andrews reassessment of the risk insured as a result of 
these changes. As Ive said, insurers are entitled to do this and I dont think St Andrews has 
treated Miss K unfairly as a result of this.
In 2017, Miss K found the renewal quote to be unaffordable. She shopped around and found 
insurance much cheaper elsewhere. She then spoke to St Andrews, which provided a quote 
for a new policy it had recently introduced. But Miss K chose to take insurance elsewhere, as 
this was still cheaper. 
Insurers often include discounts in order to obtain new customers. That means that a new 
customer will often be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. And 
insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of cover, excesses and 
differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. And each insurers costs 
may vary depending on many things, including the makeup of the pool of customers that 
they are insuring. So, just because the policy with St Andrews cost a lot more than Miss Ks 
new policy  that doesnt mean the amount charged was unfair.
Overall, I dont think that St Andrews treated Miss K unfairly when it set the price of her 
home insurance. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I've decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman