DRN-3870396
The complaint
Ms L complains about Starling Bank Limited. 
She says that Starling didnt do enough to protect her from being the victim of a scam and 
would like Starling to refund her the money she has lost
What happened
In February 2021, Ms L was contacted via WeChat by a scammer offering investment 
opportunities. 
Ms L was persuaded to purchase cryptocurrency from B and BDA (legitimate crypto 
exchanges) and transfer the funds to the scammer. In total, she made six payments totalling 
£24,750.
Once Ms L realised she had been the victim of a scam, she reported this to Starling and 
made a complaint.
Starling didnt uphold her complaint, so Ms L brought her complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld in part. They 
felt that while Starling may not have been able to prevent some of the loss that Ms L had 
suffered, it could have intervened from the fourth payment she made and prevented the loss 
from this payment onwards.
However, they also thought that Ms L should bear some of the responsibility for the loss  
and said that 50% of the payments from payment four should be refunded due to Ms Ls 
contributory negligence.
Starling agreed, but Ms L did not. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Ls complaint for materially the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Was Ms L the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in doubt here that Ms L was the victim of a scam. She was contacted 
out of the blue by an individual on WeChat and was persuaded to purchase crypto and then 
transfer this onto the scammer.
Ive listed the payments that Ms L made below.
Date Payment type Payee Amount
17 February 2021 Debit card B £750
5 March 2021 Debit card B £4,000
16 April 2021 Debit card B £5,000
16 April 2021 Debit card B £5,000
22 April 2021 Debit card BDA £5,000
22 April 2021 Debit card B £5,000
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms L isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive 
considered whether Ms L authorised the payments.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Ms L did authorise the payments in question here. They 
were made by her using her debit card. I understand that Ms L had been tricked by the 
scammer into instructing Starling to make the payments  but while Ms L never intended the 
payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that she authorised them and 
is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Ms L made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Starling to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam. 
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Starling) and the merchants (here, B and BDA).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because B and BDA are legitimate companies and provided the services that Ms L had 
requested of them  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a 
wallet of Ms Ls choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is 
therefore a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would never have been 
possible  and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been 
made.
Should Starling have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Starling reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Ms L made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Ms L authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Starling should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Starling should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Ms L and the payments in question here.
Payments one and two
Having considered the first four payments Ms L made, Im not persuaded that Starling 
should have become involved at this point. I say this because as Ive explained above, there 
is a balance to be struck. Ive reviewed Ms Ls account transactions and activity and I dont 
think that they are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to have triggered Starling into 
taking extra steps before processing Ms Ls payment instructions.
Payment three
The third payment is a closer call. It was unusual for Ms L to spend £5,000 in a single
payment. And the payment was clearly intended for a crypto exchange  and Starling ought 
to have been well aware of the rise in fraud and scams in recent years, including 
sophisticated scams in relation to crypto. However, as Ive explained, there is a balance to 
be struck. And whilst the parties will see below that I think Starling ought to have intervened 
from payment four, Im not sufficiently persuaded this payment was sufficiently unusual and 
uncharacteristic to say Starling reasonably ought to have been obliged to have just yet. I 
would reiterate this payment is a close call. But Im just not sufficiently persuaded I can say 
this payment, which was more a month after the previous two smaller payments, was 
sufficiently unusual yet.
Payment four
This was the second payment Ms L made for £5,000 in the same day  taking the daily total 
to £10,000. I think that this payment shouldve triggered a response from Starling in order to 
meet its obligations Ive set out above. With this in mind, Starling should reasonably have 
contacted Ms L to establish whether the transaction posed any possibility of placing Ms L in 
financial harm before processing it. But it did not do so.
Had Starling contacted Ms L, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Ms L about the 
payment  including what the payment was for, and the surrounding context  and to 
proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scamIve seen nothing to suggest that Ms L had been coached, or told to lie about the payments 
she was making  so I think that had Starling acted as I wouldve expected, it would quickly 
have uncovered that Ms L had been contacted through WeChat and been persuaded to 
purchase crypto and transfer this on to the scammer.
By January 2019, Starling should already have had a good understanding about how scams 
like the one Ms L fell victim to work  including that a consumer is often persuaded to move 
money from one crypto-wallet in their own name to the scammer. I also note that Ms L had 
previously been the victim of a scam and Starling were aware of this. I think that this 
shouldve made Starling even more cautious of the payment. 
Had Starling given Ms L a meaningful warning that what she had told it bore all the hallmarks 
of a sophisticated scam  I think that she wouldve taken this warning seriously and not 
taken the risk of continuing with the payment.
So, I think that Starling couldve prevented Ms Ls loss from payment four onwards.
Should Ms L bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that Starling should have prevented the payments from payment four, I 
do also need to consider if Ms L should bear some responsibility for the loss by way of 
contributory negligence.
Ms L was sadly a victim of a scam which was uncovered in January 2021. While it was a 
different type of scam, initial contact was made with Ms L through the same platform 
(WeChat). I think that this shouldve given Ms L cause for concern as she had already lost 
money via contact with a scammer in this way. 
Ms L says that she researched the company on Google  and didnt find anything negative 
about the company she thought she was dealing with at the time, so she was satisfied of 
the legitimacy of the scammer. But having looked myself at the results provided by a quick 
Google search for the company name prior to Ms L making the first payment I can see that 
there were several extremely negative online reviews about this company. So, I think that 
she should have applied more caution than she did.
That said, Starling were the experts here  and had more knowledge on the intricacies of 
these types of scams. And it didnt intervene when it ought to have done.
So, on balance, I think that responsibility for the loss that could have been prevented should 
be shared equally between Starling and Ms L.
Putting things right
Starling should refund Ms L 50% of the loss from payment four onwards.
I calculate this to be £7,500.
Starling should also pay Ms L 8% simple interest from the date the payments were made 
until the date it makes payment to Ms L.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, Starling Bank Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman