DRN-3818565
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In September 2017, Mr Gs account received credits of £500 and £170. £300 of the funds 
were immediately withdrawn from a cash machine and a further £300 was transferred to a 
third-party. HSBC subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank which sent 
the payments to Mr Gs account stating that the sender of the funds had reported being a 
victim of fraud. HSBC reviewed Mr Gs account. As a result of its investigation, HSBC 
decided to close Mr Gs account and also record a fraud prevention marker.
Upon learning of the fraud marker, Mr G complained. HSBC looked at Mr Gs complaint and 
didnt uphold it. As Mr G remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr G allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Gs 
account in September 2017, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr G was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When questioned about the activity on his account, Mr G told our adjudicator that he didnt 
know anything about the activity on his account. He said he lived in shared accommodation 
at the time and that his details may have been obtained then. 
Ive thought about what Mr G has said and its still not entirely clear to me what hes saying 
happened given hes now provided photographs of the accommodation he moved into. But, 
in truth, Im satisfied that the available evidence supports that Mr G was more likely than not 
complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place. 
I say this because it was a replacement debit card, which Mr G requested and picked up 
from branch after his previous one was lost not too long before the activity concerned, which 
was used to withdraw the funds. I understand that a replacement online banking validator 
which Mr G also obtained just before the activity in question took place was used to carry out 
the transfer. And Mr Gs online banking credentials were reset at this stage too. 
Furthermore, even though Mr G lived in shared accommodation this doesnt explain how 
someone else would have had his Personal Identification Number (PIN) and his online 
banking details to make an account transfer to someone Mr G had been regularly paying 
funds to before. It simply doesnt make sense for an opportunistic fraudster to have gone to 
the trouble of getting hold of Mr Gs card and online banking validator as well as guess his 
passwords and PIN, only to transfer half the funds to someone who Mr G was regularly 
transferring funds to.   
Im afraid the glaring inconsistencies coupled with the implausibility of Mr Gs version of 
events means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, 
I think its more likely than not that he was complicit in the fraudulent activity which took 
place on his account. So I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr G and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope Mr G will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr G might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman