DRN-3043065
The complaint
Mr R has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with 
his former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP 
were then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).  
What happened
Mr R was introduced to Portafina in 2012 after hed been cold called by an unregulated 
introducer, from here on referred to as P. P introduced Mr R to Portafina to undertake a 
review of his pension arrangements.
At the time, Mr R had a preserved Civil Service defined benefit pension with a transfer value 
of £121,955.00. Information from the review noted Mr R was:
47, single and working as a chartered accountant 
His attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as moderately adventurous
A Pension Switch Report was issued to Mr R, to assist him in making an informed decision 
on whether or not it would be in his best interest to transfer his pension to an alternative 
provider. The report stated:
If you switch provider, you to need to achieve an investment growth of 7.8% a year 
to at least match the income which you could receive from your existing Civil Service 
pension plan. This is known as the Critical Yield, which we discussed in some depth.
Due to the guaranteed benefits that you will be relinquishing with the Civil Service, it 
is against my recommendation to transfer your benefits. You have decided that you 
still wish to proceed with the Pension Switch. On this basis we are treating you as an 
insistent client.
The report then went on to say that Although against our recommendation, you have 
chosen to invest in the following funds:
40% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
25% Cool Blue Fractional Plus Funds
25% Venture Oil International
10% Cash Deposit
These were all UCIS funds. Within the pension transfer report there were some risk 
warnings around unregulated investments. It was noted that Portafina had completed due 
diligence on the schemes to ensure they were suitable for him, based on his circumstances. 
It then set out the reasons why it believed each of the investments were suitable for him.
Portafina then recommended that Mr R establish a SIPP with Transact. The adviser noted 
he would normally recommend a portfolio based on the risk profile completed, however:
.. you have instead decided to construct your own investment portfolio based on the funds 
that we could offer you
The transfer completed on 28 June 2012, when £132,107.21 was invested in the Transact 
SIPP on the same allocation basis set out previously.
Mr R complained to Portafina in January 2018, stating amongst other issues that: 
The SIPP and investments didnt match his attitude to risk
His financial situation wasnt investigated or taken into consideration
A thorough risk assessment wasnt completed
He hadnt received a payout from the investments
Portafina rejected Mr Rs complaint, explaining why the recommendation to transfer was 
appropriate for him and that the investments were suitable and in line with his attitude to risk. 
It said there had been some returns generated from the investments but accepted these had 
been delayed since 2013. It said the risks associated with the investments had been clearly 
outlined to Mr R prior to the transfer.
Portafina did not make any argument that the transfer had been completed under an 
insistent client basis.
Portafina offered to safeguard Mr Rs income. It said if the issues with payments from the 
SIPP hadnt been resolved by Mr Rs state retirement age, it would pay his income instead of 
it coming from the SIPP. Portafina said the income value would be based on the original 
expectations of fund performance and current annuity rates until the fund issues had been 
resolved when he could resume the income from the SIPP. He wouldnt need to reimburse 
Portafina for this at any future date.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this offer and referred his complaint to our service for review.
Initially Portafina didnt consent to the complaint being considered because it thought it had
been made out of time, as it was more than six months since it had issued the final response 
letter and referral rights. However, another ombudsman decided the complaint was one that 
this service could consider, as the consumer had contacted us within six months of the final 
response letter. 
One of our investigators went on to review the complaint. He initially sought to establish 
whether Mr R was a genuine insistent client and if it was correct for Portafina to treat him as 
such. The investigator didnt think that Mr R should have been treated as an insistent client.
He noted that the regulator defined an insistent client as:
a client who has received a personal recommendation (advice) from the business;
who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the
business; and
who wants the business to facilitate that transaction
The investigator also noted that, when he spoke to Mr R, the consumer told him he had been 
cold called by P and told that his pension was locked, had no growth and could be earning 
more for him. Mr R also confirmed that he didnt have any experience of investing apart from 
his pensions and prior to contact about his pension he hadnt heard of the investments put 
forward by Portafina.
The investigator said he wouldnt expect a consumer whose been cold called and with no 
prior experience of investing to have a clear idea of how they would like their pension to be 
invested. He also said that when he asked Mr R if he knew what an insistent client was, he 
told him that he hadnt heard of the phrase previously.He acknowledged the Pension Switch Report did say that, after considering the critical yield, 
it was against its advisers recommendation to transfer and Portafina was treating Mr R as 
an insistent client. However, it wasnt clear the consumer was fully aware of this and whether 
the consequences of being classed as an insistent client were clearly explained to him.
The investigator said that he expected Portafina to have something from Mr R, preferably in 
his own words, confirming his position and why he wanted to make the investments despite 
being told its not in his best interests. The investigator said hed requested such a document 
from the business, but it hadnt been able to provide one. Portafina has since said Mr R did 
complete a form to this effect, as it had issued one to him to sign on 13 February 2012, 
however it couldnt find a copy due to system issues.
The investigator highlighted several instances of the report recommending and promoting 
the transfer and investments, citing the following examples:
As Portal Financial LLP are advising you on this investment  (page 8)
Portal Financial have conducted a full due diligence exercise to ensure that the schemes 
recommended are suitable for you based on the fact that you have made, a full disclosure of
all relevant facts in respect of your investments, pensions and net assets, attitude to risk and 
investment objectives to one of our suitably qualified advisors. (page 8)
The reasons why we believe this investment is suitable for you are set out below (page 8)
and Bearing these factors in mind after treating you as an insistent client, I believe that the 
best course of action for you is to transfer your current pension arrangements to the 
Transact Self Invested Personal Pension. (page 16)
The investigator believed the report was flawed and could easily be read as an endorsement 
of the investments, as it went from saying the business didnt recommend the transfer to 
then recommending it. The report should have been very clear about why the transfer was 
unsuitable, but it went into great detail about why the transfer and investments were suitable 
instead.
The investigator also noted that, if Mr R was a genuine insistent client, this would have been 
highlighted by Portafina in its response. The business didnt make any reference to this and 
instead set out why the advice was suitable and in line with his needs and objectives.
As he didnt believe Mr R genuinely was an insistent client, the investigator assessed the 
suitability of the transfer itself and the funds invested in. He noted that:
He agreed with the adviser that the critical yield of 7.8% was too high compared to 
Mr Rs ATR to be achievable and the transfer wasnt suitable.
Mr R was classed as a moderately adventurous investor, yet he was going to invest 
in untested, illiquid and unusual UCIS. The report confirmed that these types of 
investments are only suitable for high net worth or sophisticated investors and Mr R 
did not meet these criteria.
When considering unregulated investments, the regulators good and poor practice 
report of 2010 sighted an example of good practice. This was the practice of 
restricting such unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with 
ongoing monitoring. The business was aware the majority of Mr Rs pension fund 
would be invested into UCIS funds, which by their very nature have multiple significant risk factors associated with them. They were higher risk investments and 
didnt match his ATR.
Whilst Portafina included risk warnings, this doesnt mean that the recommendation 
was suitable.
From what he had seen, there was a clear objective of transferring the consumers 
guaranteed pension to a SIPP in order to invest in UCIS. In doing so, Mr R was 
exposed to significant risks and has experienced significant losses. 
Mr R was not an insistent client and it was wrong for Portafina to treat him as such. 
The correct advice would have been for him to remain in his preserved OPS.
The investigator set out redress and provided instructions for what Portafina needed to do to 
put things right. 
Both Mr R and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on the
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portafina has now requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman, 
as it no longer accepted the view that Mr R wasnt an insistent client and it didnt agree with 
the redress methodology proposed by the investigator.
Due to the delay in settlement, Mr R has also requested the case be reopened. So as both 
parties have requested that the complaint is reopened, we have agreed to do so on
this occasion. The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and any settlement which it 
agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for
Mr R but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
There are, to my mind, three distinct issues to address:Was it correct for Portafina to treat Mr R as an insistent client;
Was the recommendation to transfer and invest in UCIS suitable; and
Is the redress methodology set out by the investigator appropriate.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for
the same reasons. So Im upholding this complaint on the basis that Mr R wasnt an insistent 
client and shouldnt have been treated as an such. Portafina made clear and positive 
recommendations to transfer out from his occupational pension scheme and into unsuitable 
funds and its responsible for any losses he has suffered. These should be redressed in line 
with the methodology as set out by the regulator. 
Insistent client
There was no guidance in 2012 which set out what specific steps a business needed to take 
when dealing with insistent clients and it wouldnt be reasonable to retrospectively apply 
guidance that came into effect after the event. That said, the guidance which was in place at 
the time, namely PRIN 2.1.1 7 Communications with clients is relevant and states:
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
I dont think the report is clear or fair and is misleading, due to the contradictory statements 
and recommendations throughout. For instance page 5 states .. it is against my 
recommendation to transfer your benefits., but page 13 says Having considered your 
current circumstances and future requirements, I am recommending that you establish a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan with Transact.
Page 16 states Bearing these factors in mind after treating you as an insistent client, I 
believe that the best course of action for you is to transfer your current pension 
arrangements to the Transact Self Invested Personal Pension.
So the report says on one page the consumer shouldnt transfer his benefits, but then 
repeatedly recommends on other pages that he should transfer to a SIPP. Similarly, the 
report gives the clear impression that the UCIS funds are suitable investments for Mr R, 
despite also saying that they werent recommending them. Page 8 states Although it is 
against our recommendation, you have chosen to invest in the following funds, which 
indicates the funds are not suitable. This is undermined on the following page, when the 
report states Portal Financial have conducted a full due diligence exercise to ensure that the 
schemes recommended are suitable for you  and The reasons why we believe this 
investment is suitable for you are set out below  and on page ten Please note that while 
the funds invested in via your Transact SIPP can be considered relatively illiquid investments 
they do produce returns that can be used to meet your income requirements and as such 
are considered suitable by Portal Financial.
Any retail client reading this report would come away with the impression that transferring 
from a guaranteed occupational pension into UCIS funds within a SIPP wrapper was 
appropriate for them. The overall tone of the report is that Portafina was recommending Mr R 
transfer and this would be suitable. If the business genuinely believed it was treating the 
consumer as an insistent client then this was not communicated in a manner that was clear, 
fair and not misleading.
Portafina say that Mr R would have signed a form confirming he was acting as an insistent 
client in February 2012, before he was given a copy of the report, but werent able to provide 
a copy of this document. Notwithstanding the fact that I cant base my decisions on a document that isnt available, I would be wary about relying on anything the consumer 
signed which Portafina drafted before he received any advice, as he would have been 
unaware of what he was rejecting. 
Getting a consumer to sign a form to say he wants to act as an insistent client before he has 
been given any advice severely undermines the process and goes against COBS 2.1 Acting 
honestly, fairly and professionally. Giving a form to a consumer to sign which tells the firm 
that he wants to act as an insistent client in order to give unsuitable advice would, to my 
mind be in breach of COBS 2.1.2:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
Due to these factors, I agree with the investigator that Mr R shouldnt have been treated as 
an insistent client and Portafina is responsible for the advice it gave.
Transferring and investing in UCIS
The investigator has set out the reasons why it wasnt appropriate for Mr R to transfer out of 
his occupational pension and Portafina hasnt argued that it was. As such there is no need to 
revisit this issue, when it doesnt appear to be in dispute.
Mr R was recorded as having a moderately adventurous ATR, but the recommended funds 
were all high risk investments. All of Mr Rs portfolio was invested in unregulated and highly 
speculative UCIS funds, when it was considered by the regulator that even a high risk 
investor should limit investment in UCIS to between 3% and 5% of the overall portfolio. So 
for a moderately adventurous risk investor, these funds were completely unsuitable. 
Portafina havent raised any argument about the suitability of the funds with us. The 
investigator has explained why they werent suitable, so I see little benefit to repeating the 
reasoning here, when no further arguments have been received to dispute what the 
investigator has said. 
As the nature of the investments has a bearing on the redress methodology, however, it 
should be restated that they are illiquid.
Redress 
Portafina have argued any redress should be modelled on a comparator using a benchmark 
of funds and not on the loss of final salary benefits. I dont agree this is correct.
Mr R wouldnt have transferred his defined benefit occupational pension were it not for the 
unsuitable advice given by Portafina. There was no benefit to the consumer in transferring at 
that time and, due to his age, he was unable to access any of the pension fund so there was 
no reason for him to make any investment at all. As such, no investment benchmark of any 
type is appropriate and the regulators guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers should be used.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina should therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as amended by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual calculation. Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date
Portafina LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Portafina to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mr R to the position he would have been in but for the 
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable or unwilling to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr R to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mr R to the position he would have been in but for the 
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot 
be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the 
case here.
If Portafina had given suitable advice Mr R wouldnt have the SIPP. The SIPP only exists 
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr M wish to move 
his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina taking 
over the investments, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with his SIPP provider 
directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Portafina LLP should pay Mr 
R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina 
LLP to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Portafina LLP to 
pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina LLP pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portafina LLP. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina LLP. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services 
LLP to pay redress as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman