DRN-3828867
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Mercer Limited in relation to his private 
medical insurance policy. Reference to Mercer includes its predecessor.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr R has had dealings with Mercer for several years. It 
recommended a private medical insurance policy for him, which renewed in December of 
each year. 
Mr R says that Mercer didnt provide proper care and attention which meant that he paid 
more for his private medical insurance over several years. He wants compensation of 
£9,577 in relation to overpaid premiums and the return of commission of £448 paid to 
Mercer in 2020 by the provider of his private medical insurance. Mr R also wants 
confirmation that his confidential information is kept secure. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Mercer had 
treated Mr R unfairly. The investigator said that Mercer sent Mr R renewal letters each 
year which offered the option to discuss renewal, premiums and cover at any time. She 
said that it wasnt reasonable to hold Mercer responsible for those discussions not 
happening. The investigator said that it was open to Mr R to review his cover. She said 
that she hadnt seen evidence of shortcomings in the service Mercer gave to Mr R and 
that she was satisfied that it sent Mr R the renewal letters each year. 
The investigator said that we dont have authority to recommend that a business 
redirects commission payment. She said that the change from Mercers predecessor to 
Mercer had no impact on its customers and that Mercer apologised for sending Mr R 
information about others. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that shed overlooked his claim for 
financial loss. He said that in 2017 and 2018 he asked Mercer at renewal if he could 
reduce his premium and all that was offered was a market review. When he spoke 
directly with an insurer in 2020 he discovered that he could reduce his premiums 
substantially. Mr R said that hes calculated his loss by extrapolating the reduction in 
premium he achieved in 2020 to the years from 2008 onwards. 
Mr R says that the commission paid to Mercer in 2020 by his provider should be paid to 
him. He says that Mercer didnt tell him how he could reduce his premium.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr R  has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. I trust that Mr R wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I 
consider to be the central issue, that is whether Mercer treated Mr R fairly and reasonably. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mercer needed to provide Mr R with 
information thats clear, fair and not misleading to allow him to make an informed choice 
about whether the policy was suitable for him. Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint because I 
dont think that Mercer treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Mercer has explained how it took over the business of its predecessor. Im satisfied 
that Mr R was a customer of Mercer. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mercer sent Mr R renewal 
notifications each year. Ive seen notifications that included Mercers understanding 
of Mr Rs demands and needs and an invitation to contact it if they had changed. 
There was also an invitation to contact Mercer if Mr R wished to consider ways to 
reduce his premium. I dont think that Mercer was required to do more than that. 
Mercers records show that in 2017, Mr R contacted it to enquire whether any 
discounts were available from the insurer. Mercer pursued that and Mr Rs insurer 
agreed a discount. In 2018, Mr R phoned Mercer as he was concerned about the 
increase in his premium. Mercer said that it would look for alternative quotes in 
order to see if it could get a discount with the current provider. Mr Rs insurer 
declined Mercers request for a discount. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think that Mercer acted appropriately when Mr R 
contacted it about his premium. Unless Mr R told Mercer that his demands and 
needs had changed, it wouldnt know that he wished to find a policy with less 
cover. I dont think it was for Mercer to guess the changes of cover Mr R would 
tolerate in order to lower the premium. I think it was for Mr R to communicate his 
changed requirements to Mercer. 
I can quite understand that when Mr R revisited his requirements in 2020 and 
obtained a lower premium from his insurer, he was concerned that this hadnt 
happened earlier. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Mercer was 
at fault. 
The commission Mr Rs insurer paid to Mercer in 2020 is a contractual matter 
between those two parties. Theres no basis on which I can fairly direct Mercer to 
redirect that commission to Mr R. 
Mercer has apologised for sending Mr R correspondence relating to others, which it 
said was caused by human error. Its explained the steps it takes to keep data 
secure. I dont think that it needs to do anything more in relation to this part of      
Mr Rs complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but theres no basis on which I can fairly direct Mercer 
to pay him compensation. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman