DRN-3113255
The complaint
Mr C and Miss G complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr C and Miss G bought a platinum single trip travel insurance policy, 
insured by URV, covering a holiday with their young children which was due to start mid April 
2020. They booked flights, accommodation and tickets for excursions independently.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential international travel due to Covid-19. That advice remained in place 
on Mr C and Miss Gs intended departure date.
As Mr C and Miss G couldnt travel they claimed on the policy for £800 for the unused, non 
refundable deposit for the accommodation and £1,898 for tickets for excursions. The airline 
said it would give a full refund.
URV said the circumstances which Mr C and Miss G found themselves werent covered 
under the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. 
Mr C and Miss G complained to us. Miss G said when they bought the policy Covid-19 was a 
problem in China so she spoke to the broker to ask if the policy would cover the excursions 
costs if the trip had to be cancelled due to Covid-19 and was told they would be. She later 
bought the policy on-line. Mr C and Miss G say theyve been mis-sold the policy and want 
their claim paid.
Our investigator said it would be fair and reasonable for URV to pay the unrecoverable £800 
accommodation deposit. He said URV didnt need to pay the cost of the excursions as the 
seller for the excursions had told Mr C and Miss G it would refund 80% of the total ticket 
price or they could postpone their tickets to use at a later date.
Mr C and Miss G accept our investigators recommendation but URV disagreed and wanted 
an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said: 
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. Ive also had regard 
to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
This decision is just about whether the insurer URV fairly declined the claim. Mr C and 
Miss G have also said the policy was mis-sold as Miss G was told by the policys broker 
before she bought the policy on-line that it would cover cancellation due to Covid-19.
Theres no evidence available to me to suggest that the broker was acting as an agent or 
representative on behalf of URV in selling the policy. Mr C and Miss G will need to make a 
separate complaint to the broker about their concerns about information it gave around the 
sale of the policy. If agreement cant be reached they can make a separate complaint on that 
matter to us to consider.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of page 
one, says;
This is a summary of our insurance policy. You will find all the terms and conditions, 
along with other important information, online and in the policy documents.
Page two of the IPID says;
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page sixteen of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the 
policy. It excludes:
You travelling to an area that is classified as 'Advise against all travel' or 'Advise 
against all but essential travel' by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure.
On page seventeen the section entitled Your pre-travel policy  If you are unable to go on 
your trip sets out the circumstances under which URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which 
cannot be recovered from any other source. These are if the policyholder is unable to travel 
because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts. 
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion being made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
Underneath, on the same page, it says:
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable 
at the time of your departure.
Was the claim declined unfairly?Im not upholding this complaint because:
The trip was cancelled due to circumstances entirely outside of Mr C and Miss Gs 
control. But the trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons specified on page 
seventeen of the policy. Cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice isnt a valid 
reason for a cancellation claim to be paid under the policy. It isnt a listed, insured 
event for which cover is provided under the terms of the policy
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for Mr C and Miss G to be left in a position where they had no cover for 
cancelling the trip due to a change in FCDO advice but to also have no cover if theyd 
gone ahead and travelled in the event that it was possible for them to do so. There 
are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt 
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain
I think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion of 
cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be prominent in 
the IPID. However, Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions which form 
the contract of insurance between Mr C and Miss G and URV. As Ive outlined above 
the exclusion in relation to the lack of cover for the advice or recommendation of the 
FCO was referred to in the general summary of conditions and exclusions. It was 
also specifically highlighted in the cancellation section of the policy
Although Mr C and Miss G may have been in the position of having no cover under 
this policy if they travelled and also having no cover if they cancelled, I think these 
exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of this 
policy. It was up to Mr C and Miss G to ensure they had the level of cover they 
required to meet their needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to changes 
in FCDO advice, its likely they couldve found another policy on the market which 
wouldve covered the situation they found themselves in
Mr C and Miss G say they relied on the information from the policys broker that they 
would be covered for cancellation due to Covid-19. Ive explained above that they will 
need to make a separate complaint about that issue to the broker. As I havent seen 
evidence to confirm that the broker was acting on URVs behalf, even if the broker 
gave wrong information, that doesnt affect my findings that URV fairly declined the 
claim
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to 
accept this claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
URV and Mr C and Miss G didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As URV and Mr C and Miss G didnt respond to my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I dont uphold this 
complaint. URV fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman