DRN-2964723
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt challenge a chargeback claim that had 
been defended by the merchant.
What happened
Ms B made two purchases from a merchant that she sought reimbursement for from the 
merchant without success. Because of this, Ms B asked Barclays to recover the money for 
her via two chargeback claims. 
Barclays raised the chargeback claims and provisionally credited Ms B with the money being 
claimed for, in anticipation of the claims success. However, the merchant against who the 
claim had been raised presented evidence to Barclays which meant that the claims wouldnt 
be successful, as per the chargeback rules. 
Barclays forwarded the evidence provided to Ms B and asked for her response in order to 
ascertain whether the position taken by the merchant could be challenged. But Ms B didnt 
respond, and so Barclays closed the claims as being unsuccessful and withdrew the 
previously credited money from Ms Bs account. Ms B wasnt happy about this, so she raised 
a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Bs complaint, but they felt that theyd followed the correct chargeback 
process, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays had 
followed the correct chargeback process, and so they also didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Ms B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must have been upsetting for Ms B to have learned that the chargeback claims shed 
thought would be successful ultimately werent, and then to discover that the money 
previously credited to her by Barclays relating to these claims had been withdrawn from her 
account as a result. And this must have been especially the case given Ms Bs financial 
position at that time.
However, it must be noted that the letter sent to Ms B by Barclays at the start of the 
chargeback claim process specifically explained that the money had been credited to Ms Bs 
account temporarily, pending the result of the chargeback claim process. As such, while Ms 
B may have anticipated the success of the chargeback claim, I feel that it was incumbent on 
Ms B to have considered the possibility that the credited amount might be withdrawn from 
her account if the chargeback claims werent successful.
Id like to take a moment here to clarify what a chargeback dispute is. Its a process by which 
some disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in this case Barclays, and merchants, 
under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and 
this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made and what criteria must 
be met for a claim to be successful. The rules are quite strict, and Barclays doesn't have the 
power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Barclays werent required to ask Visa for the transaction 
to be reversed via the chargeback scheme - although its considered good practice for them 
to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
In this instance, Barclays did feel that the chargeback claims were likely to succeed, and so 
they raised the chargeback claims accordingly. However, the merchant against who the 
claims were made then provided evidence which appeared to demonstrate that Ms B had 
received the products that shed paid for. And, under these circumstances, as per the 
chargeback rules, a chargeback claim wouldnt be successful.
What this service would expect of Barclays here is that they would have forwarded the 
evidence they received from the merchant to Ms B for Ms B to review and provide her 
comments on. Then, having received and reviewed Ms Bs comments, it would be expected 
that Barclays would have decided whether they felt that challenging the merchants position 
on the basis of Ms Bs comments would be successful or not, and to have proceeded 
accordingly. 
Having reviewed the information available to me, its evident that this is what Barclays 
attempted to do here. They sent the evidence to Ms B and asked her to provide any 
comments that might allow them to proceed with the claims, and they asked Mrs B to 
respond to them within ten days. But Ms B didnt respond within ten days, and after Ms B still 
hadnt responded after six weeks, Barclays closed the chargeback claims and withdrew the 
previously credited money from Ms Bs account as previously explained.
Ms B has stated that she did respond to Barclays within this timeframe, but I havent seen 
any evidence of this, and its notable that the system notes that Barclays have provided to 
this service dont record any form of communication being received from Ms B during this 
period.
In circumstances such as this  where the testimony of two parties differs  I have to decide 
what I think is more likely to have happened, on balance, given all the information I have 
available to me. In this instance, I feel its more likely than not that Ms B didnt respond to 
Barclays, and I say this because I feel that if Ms B had responded Barclays would have a 
record of her response and would have moved forward with the outstanding claims 
accordingly.
Im also aware that Ms B feels that Barclays should have challenged the merchants position 
regardless of whether they received any information from her regarding this. Im not 
convinced by Ms Bs position here, and I must refer to the explanation of chargeback claims 
that I provided earlier - and specifically to the point that the rules of the claim are set by the card provider and that Barclays must abide by those rules and dont have the remit to 
change them.
In this instance, given that Barclays had received documents from the merchant which 
appeared to confirm that the claims wouldnt be successful, it was appropriate for Barclays to 
have approached Ms B for comment on these documents and to have then closed the 
claims as unsuccessful when no comments were forthcoming. And it was incumbent on Ms 
B  and not on Barclays  to have provided the stimulus needed to have enabled these 
claims to have continued, if that were possible.
All of which means that, while I sympathise with the difficult position that Ms B found herself 
in here, I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably toward 
Ms B in how they handled her chargeback claims, including how they withdrew the 
temporarily credited funds they had placed in her account. And it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms B was hoping for here, but I hope that she 
can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman