DRN-2747008
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R would like Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to refund all of the money 
Mrs R unwittingly transferred to a fraudster.   
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, 
so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs R were tricked by a fraudster imitating a conveyancing solicitor 
acting on their behalf. The property purchase was at an advanced stage. Mr and Mrs R had 
already sold their previous home and were intending to move to a new area of the country to 
run a holiday bed and breakfast business. The enquiries on the property had been 
undertaken and Mr and Mrs R had received a breakdown showing they needed to pay 
£358,630.64 in order to complete. 
Mrs R had been in regular email contact with the solicitor and was expecting to receive 
further information about transferring the funds. On 27 January 2020, she received an email 
with account details. Unfortunately, this email had been intercepted by a fraudster who had 
inserted their own account details in place of the correct ones. 
On 28 January 2020, Mrs R made an online banking payment of £1 to the account details 
provided. She explains that she tried to call the solicitor to confirm it had arrived but was 
unable to reach them.
On 29 January 2020, Mrs R went into branch to make a £358,000 CHAPS payment. Shes 
explained that she did this because it was such a large amount of money and she didnt 
want to make a mistake. From what Mr and Mrs R have said, they felt a CHAPS payment 
would avoid risks and problems that they thought could arise with an online payment, 
especially as it was unclear whether the test payment made had been successful. 
Whilst in the branch, Mrs R recalls she spoke about the upcoming move. She says the 
banks employee asked her if the solicitors email address was correct and if she had 
checked the payee details directly with them. 
Mrs R explains she sent an email to the solicitor whilst in the branch. Mrs R wrote the email 
in Welsh and asked if the payee details are correct. She explains that she decided to 
communicate in Welsh to make sure it definitely was the solicitor who responded, as she 
knew they spoke Welsh. She got a reply within minutes. Mrs R says that she wasnt thinking 
about being scammed and she was checking everything was okay with the account details. 
She thought only her genuine solicitor could read and respond to the email so there was 
nothing to worry about. She says the bank did not explain the importance of confirming the 
details by phone.
Halifax says that it did talk to Mrs R about scams at the time she was making the payment 
and explained in detail that a common scam involves solicitors bank details being 
intercepted. It has provided details from a checklist that was completed at the time because 
of the high value of the payment Mrs R was making. The employee that first spoke to Mrs R 
that day has also provided a statement to explain she always reiterates the importance of 
checking details with customers that are making payments in relation to house purchases. 
Later that day, the fraudster sent an email that appeared as if it was from the solicitor 
confirming the safe receipt of the funds.
On 3 February 2020, Mrs R received another email from the genuine solicitor suggesting no 
funds had been received. Mrs R tried to call the solicitor and spoke to a secretary, explaining 
she had paid. She later received another email from the solicitors email address asking for a 
further payment of just over £600 to pay the remaining balance to complete. Assuming the 
earlier dialogue had been a crossed wire, she made a payment of £638.64 using her online 
banking.  
The scam came to light on 7 February 2020, which was the intended completion day. The 
solicitor got in touch to say no funds had been received. 
Upon hearing this news, Mr and Mrs R contacted the bank straight away. Halifax was 
ultimately able to recover £99,294.25 from the receiving bank. This was credited back to 
Mr and Mrs Rs account on 14 April 2020. 
The receiving bank also accepted partial liability for the loss and reimbursed a further 
£179,000 which was credited to Mr and Mrs Rs account on 18 March 2020. 
Halifax said it was not responsible for refunding the rest of the money that had been lost. It 
said it had no reason to prevent Mrs R from making the payment at the time. It suggested 
she had not sufficiently verified the payee was genuine before sending the money and 
suggested she should have followed the safety advice provided by her solicitor.
Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
I am also mindful that when Mrs R made the payment, Halifax should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr and Mrs R complained to our service. They explained 
they had not been able to proceed with the purchase and had ended up putting most of their 
belongings into storage whilst working out next steps. They told us how stressful the 
situation had been and continues to be. The holiday rental company they had listed the 
property with was going to take them to court for costs incurred as a result of bookings that 
they were unable to honour. The bank said it did not consider it was responsible for refunding the remainder of the money 
that was lost. It felt that an effective warning was provided and Mrs R ignored it. It considers 
she had the opportunity to review the payment she was making and ensure it was correct. It 
said she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment and failed to protect 
the funds by performing reasonable due diligence to confirming payment details with the 
solicitor.
Our Investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded Halifax had been able to establish that Mr and Mrs R should not be reimbursed 
because Mrs R had ignored an effective warning. She didnt think the branchs checklist and 
discussions about the payment Mrs R was going to make were impactful in the specific 
circumstances. She noted that Mrs R had no prior knowledge of email intercept scams. 
Against this backdrop, she felt Halifax didnt do enough to warn her of the importance of 
checking the accounts details with the solicitor verbally. Mrs R was asked if she had checked 
the details with the solicitor, which she had by emailing. 
She also wasnt persuaded that Halifax had been able to establish that Mrs R didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing she was sending the funds to her solicitor. She explained that 
email contact with the solicitor was consistent with how they had usually interacted and did 
not come out of the blue. She noted the fraudster had been able to join a genuine thread of 
emails undetected and the correspondence was exactly in keeping with the way the solicitor 
usually wrote.
Our Investigator explained the loss of the money had a devastating impact on Mr and Mrs R. 
In addition to refunding the outstanding loss and paying 8% interest on the funds from the 
date they debited the account until the date of settlement, our Investigator recommended 
Halifax should also pay the storage costs and the penalty of £4,984.18 Mr and Mrs R 
incurred, along with £500 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused 
to the couple as a result of the bank missing the opportunity to prevent the scam in branch. 
Halifax disagreed. In summary, it said the version of events provided by the branch 
colleague is accurate and it would be rude to further interrogate customers as to the use of 
their funds. It considers Mrs R was specifically warned about the dangers of intercepted 
emails and was happy she had checked the details. The bank felt it had given Mrs R an 
effective warning specific to the situation and it was her responsibility to check the details. 
It concluded by saying that the warnings provided by the solicitor that new payment details 
would not be provided by email were difficult to miss and there was nothing more the bank 
could have reasonably been asked to do. 
When our Investigator said her position was unchanged, the bank added it would question 
why Mrs R didnt try again to confirm the payment details after making the £1 confirmation 
payment before going on to make a payment for such a large amount of money. 
It also pointed out that Mr and Mrs R had received contradictory information about the 
receipt of the money and thought they should have been actively pursuing confirmation 
before going on to send any further funds.
It ultimately did not feel it would be fair or reasonable to expect its colleagues to have done 
more than they did. It suggested that Mr and Mrs R would most likely have continued to 
make the payment in any event given that they made the third payment following 
contradictory information that they did not sufficiently clarify. The banks final position was 
that remaining liability should rest with the customer. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Halifax should have refunded the remainder of 
the money Mr and Mrs R lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Halifax should, in any event, have explained the precise nature of email intercept 
scams, including what they look like and how to uncover them to ensure that Mrs R 
wasnt at risk of financial harm by being the unknowing victim of a scam. If it had 
done so, I am satisfied the fraud would have come to light at the time the payment 
was going to be made and the losses Mr and Mrs R went on to suffer would have 
been prevented. 
In all the circumstances, Halifax should fairly and reasonably refund the remainder of 
the money they lost. The money was taken from Mr and Mrs Rs current account. It is 
not clear how they would have used the money if Halifax had refunded it when it 
should have done, so Halifax should also pay interest on the money it should have 
refunded at 8% simple per year from 29 January 2020 the date Mrs R made the 
payment to the date of settlement. 
I agree it would be fair and reasonable for Halifax to pay the consequential losses 
and distress and inconvenience award our Investigator recommended.
I have carefully considered Halifaxs representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mrs R had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view. In particular, I am not persuaded that Mrs R failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Halifax to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code. 
Effective warnings
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met.  
There is no debate that the payment Mrs R was making was for a significant sum of money. 
Mrs R has explained that this money represented their life savings as well as the proceeds 
from the sale of their previous home. Mrs R has explained she was nervous about making 
this once in a lifetime type payment and wanted everything to go smoothly. Its not inherently 
unusual or uncharacteristic for a banks customer to want to make a large payment against 
the backdrop of buying a property, but its important for the bank to discuss it further 
because scams of this nature are well known. I am persuaded that there was a discussion about the reasons behind the payment Mrs R 
was making. The banks checklist clearly notes that the money is going to a solicitor for a 
property purchase. The checklist contains a number of questions and prompts for the banks 
employee to go through with the customer. One of the questions requires the employee to 
ask:
Have you checked the payment details are correct, with the person you are sending the 
money to?
This question requires the employee to record a Yes/No answer. Underneath the question, 
theres a prompt for the employee to say that Fraudsters are able hack in to genuine 
company emails to change account information [sic]
It is recorded that Mrs R answered no.
Although the checklist isnt time stamped, it is alongside a CHAPS transfer form that was 
first printed at 13:48. Given that Mrs Rs email in Welsh was sent to the solicitor at 13:52, 
I think it is more likely than not that Mrs Rs decision to email the solicitor was prompted by a 
discussion that happened at the time. 
Whilst I accept that Halifax made attempts to talk to Mrs R about scams and this scam risk in 
particular, Im not persuaded that what it said was specific or impactful enough. Although it 
had sufficient knowledge of the payment Mrs R wanted to make and the wider 
circumstances surrounding it, I am not persuaded that it did enough to tell her that it was 
imperative for her to phone her solicitor to verify the bank details. 
Confirming account details in person or over the phone is almost always sufficient to expose 
and prevent this type of scam, so its crucial that any warning explains this. And, its unlikely 
that anyone in Mrs Rs position who wasnt already familiar with an email interception scam 
would know, based on what was most likely discussed, what the particular risk was or how to 
prevent it.
If the bank had explained to Mrs R that she needed to speak to the solicitor on the phone or 
there was a risk that she could lose the money, I think Mrs R would have done so. 
Mrs R maintains that she was not told that she needed to confirm these details by phone and 
nothing in the checklist or staff statement suggests this information was provided at the time. 
Mrs R considers she had checked the details with her solicitor because shed emailed in 
Welsh and received an immediate response. Shes explained that she didnt know it was 
possible for that response to have come from anyone else other than her solicitor. 
Had the type of scam Mrs R was at potential risk of been properly explained to her, given the 
value and importance of the payment, I believe she would have phoned the solicitor and it 
would have come to light that the account details she had been provided with werent correct 
and had been changed. Im also mindful that Mrs R called the bank before going into branch 
to find out what documentation she needed to take with her. Ive listened to a recording of 
this call and I think it is clear that Mrs R is anxious about the payment and wants to do all 
that she can to ensure it goes to plan. She tells the operative exactly what the payment is for 
and how much money is involved. She asks the operative what could go wrong and they 
discuss whether Mrs R can make a payment of that size in one go. I think this demonstrates 
that Mrs R would have phoned the solicitor had she been explicitly told to do so and why it 
was imperative to do so. Overall, the warning failed to bring to life what all of the features of a scam of this nature look 
like  how a fraudster can pose as another person and send emails from their email address 
or something which looks very similar and the importance of voice contact with the solicitor 
to uncover whether this has happened. So, on balance, I dont think the warnings given were 
impactful nor went far enough to be effective. And I dont think Mrs R acted unreasonably by 
proceeding with the payment in branch.
Did Mrs R have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Im also satisfied Halifax has not shown that Mrs R lacked a reasonable basis of belief when 
making each payment and Ill explain why.
Mrs R had communicated with the solicitor mainly by email the whole way through the 
conveyancing transaction up until the point that she needed to make payment. As the 
purchase was approaching the completion date and the completion statement had been sent 
to Mr and Mrs R, it was not unexpected for them to receive an email with details of how to 
make that payment. 
Initially Mr and Mrs R made a test payment of £1 to the bank details they had been provided 
with then tried to contact the solicitor to confirm its safe receipt. When they did not hear back 
from the solicitor, they then decided to make the payment in branch instead. I think it was 
reasonable for Mrs R to go ahead with the second payment even though the test payments 
safe receipt had not been confirmed. At this point in time, Mr and Mrs R had no reason to 
suspect they may be at risk of falling victim to a scam. They thought they were 
corresponding with the genuine solicitor. Mrs R was anxious about processing errors when 
making such a large payment. Shes explained that she thought a payment made in branch 
would be safer. Given that CHAPS payments are typically one off, high value payments that 
need to be sent and received on the same day, I can see why Mrs R then opted to use one 
to make this payment. 
The scam was sophisticated and the emails that were sent by the fraudster were 
indistinguishable from genuine ones. They came from the same email address, slotted into 
the chain of genuine messages and used very similar language. As Mrs R had no real 
appreciation of how email accounts could be hacked and emails diverted, it is unsurprising 
and not unreasonable for her to think the account details had genuinely come from the 
solicitor. 
I accept something said in the branch prompted Mrs R to contact the solicitor by email in 
Welsh. Shes explained that she thought only the genuine solicitor could receive that 
message. I dont think that belief was unreasonable given I am persuaded she had no 
understanding of the potential vulnerabilities of email communication and did not recognise 
the risk that she may have been communicating with a fraudster.
Halifax has referred to the genuine emails from the solicitor and the disclaimer they 
contained about bank details being difficult to miss. But the fraudsters emails did not contain 
this information, meaning Mrs R is unlikely to have read this information at the time of 
making the payment. I dont think the fact the solicitor had given Mrs R some information 
about this scam risk at points in the past means that she didnt act reasonably or that she 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing the money was being sent to the 
solicitor. Ive also thought about the third payment made and whether it was reasonable for Mrs R to 
have made it given that at this point the genuine solicitor had been in contact by email to say 
no funds at all had been received. But it is important to consider all the circumstances at the 
time of this payment. Mr and Mrs R had absolutely no idea that they were falling victim to a 
scam and nor should they. They were under the misapprehension that there was a crossed 
wire. Mrs R had spoken to the secretary at the solicitors firm and explained that they had 
made a CHAPS payment. The next communication they had was to ask for a further small 
payment. The amount requested was in keeping with the outstanding amount that was still 
due to satisfy the completion statement. So I can see why Mrs R thought no more of it at that 
time and made the payment. 
Overall, it is for Halifax to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care 
under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM. For the reasons I have 
explained above, I am not persuaded that it has done so in this case. So I will now turn to 
the impact that the scam has had on Mr and Mrs R and the steps Halifax should now take to 
try and put things right. 
Impact of the scam 
Buying a property is a stressful experience in and of itself and discovering that the money 
was not in place on completion day can only be described as a living nightmare. I cant even 
begin to imagine what it was like for Mr and Mrs R when they found out they had been the 
victim of a scam. Mrs R has explained how they thought they had done everything right and 
acted diligently at every step. Shes told us how she struggled to put what happened into 
words when trying to deal with the immediate aftermath and that it is difficult to this day to 
think about what they went through. I am mindful that Mr R made plans to retire from his job 
in the city and enjoy a new pace of life with the holiday bed and breakfast business, but he 
has since had to return to work. The property was ultimately purchased by someone else 
because Mr and Mrs R couldnt afford to go ahead with the purchase after losing money to 
the scam. Given the amount of money Mr and Mrs R lost, the lack of certainty around 
whether it would be recovered and the fact they are looking to retire so did not wish to take 
on a mortgage commitment, I can see why they felt they had no option but to walk away 
from the property. The amount of money they would have needed to find to try and go ahead 
was just too great. 
To say that this scam has had a life changing impact on the couple is an understatement. 
But in considering what is fair compensation, I have to specifically think about the impact of 
the banks actions rather than the impact of the crime itself. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs R have faced a lasting detriment as a result of Halifaxs actions. 
Halifax ought to have done more than it did to protect them. It was the expert in this situation 
and knew what scams like this one look and feel like in practice. Im satisfied that Halifax 
missed the opportunity to provide an effective warning which would have prevented this 
scam from continuing any further. 
Our Investigator recommended that Halifax should reimburse the outstanding loss and pay 
8% interest on these funds from the date they debited the account until the date of 
settlement. She also recommended that Halifax should pay the storage costs Mr and Mrs R 
incurred and the penalty of £4,984.18 that the holiday rental company was pursuing them 
for. She thought a payment of £500 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to the couple as a result of the bank missing the opportunity to 
prevent the scam in branch would be appropriate in the circumstances. Having considered the matter, I agree this would be fair and reasonable redress in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. I consider that the storage costs and the penalty 
from the holiday rental company to be reasonably foreseeable consequences of the 
purchase not going ahead. The reason the purchase could not complete flows directly from 
Halifaxs actions. I am persuaded that the bank was on notice that Mr and Mrs R were 
making the payment to fund the purchase of a holiday rental business. 
Mrs R has provided comprehensive evidence to this service to substantiate these 
consequential losses. Mrs R has shown the storage costs incurred to be £4,482.32. I am 
satisfied that the couple took steps to mitigate this loss in so far as they possibly could. They 
needed to store their belongings at very short notice, but then later moved them to a cheaper 
facility. They have since been able to arrange for family members to look after them.
We have asked Mr and Mrs R about the business the were buying and whether it was 
possible for them to mitigate the losses they have been left facing. But Mrs R has explained 
that the money they have been able to recover was not enough to enable them to go ahead 
or to buy an alternative property in the same area. Mrs R has explained that the property 
they wanted to buy was rare as it had living and rental quarters and as a going concern, was 
already operational.
Mrs R has explained they made arrangements with the holiday rental company after 
contracts for the property sale had been exchanged. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr and Mrs R to have done this. After contracts have been exchanged in a conveyancing 
transaction, it is very unlikely that the sale will not then go on to complete as both sides are 
contractually committed. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs R had no choice but to cancel the future 
bookings. Mrs R has provided a breakdown of the penalty payment. It consists of termination 
charges for unwinding bookings made, fees applied by the holiday rental company for doing 
so along with compensation the holiday rental company paid to customers that were let 
down. 
I am mindful that Mr and Mrs Rs losses as a result of what happened are likely to far exceed 
what I have highlighted here. They may well have incurred costs to the other party involved 
in the conveyancing as a result of the sale falling through as well as the loss of earnings 
from the business they were going to run. But Mr and Mrs R have indicated that they 
accepted the Investigators conclusions because they would prefer to have some closure on 
the matter and to finally start to look to the future. They desire the certainty of bringing this 
matter to an end and after what they have been through, I can fully appreciate why Mr and 
Mrs R are finding it increasingly difficult to have to revisit this difficult chapter of their lives.   
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should now:
Refund the remainder of the loss Mr and Mrs R suffered and pay 8% simple interest 
per year on this amount from the date the money left the account to the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse the storage costs Mr and Mrs R incurred for the safe keeping of their 
possessions after the property purchase fell through. Mrs R has provided invoices 
to show the costs add up to £4482.32. The bank should then add interest at the rate 
of 8% simple per year from the date Mr and Mrs R made each payment to the date 
of settlement.   Pay Mr and Mrs R £4984.18 for the penalty they have incurred from the holiday 
rental company 
Pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to them 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax and direct it to pay the 
redress Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman