DRN-3179995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that they were given unsuitable advice by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to invest in stocks and shares ISAs. 
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs C were advised to invest a total of £10,000 in the Barclays Managed 
Growth fund, with £7,000 held in a maxi ISA in Mr Cs name and £3,000 in a mini ISA in Mrs 
Cs name. They surrendered the investments in 2006 and received slightly less than they 
originally invested. In 2020 they complained via a claims management company (CMC) that 
the ISAs had been mis-sold. The CMC said that as inexperienced investors, they were 
advised to take too much risk and were advised to invest too much of their available money. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, because the fund and wrappers matched Mr and Mrs 
Cs attitude to risk and objective of investing in a tax efficient manner. They said Mr and Mrs 
C were left with a sufficient cash reserve and had a disposable income, so overall they felt 
the advice was suitable. The CMC, on behalf of Mr and Mrs C, disagreed and so brought the 
complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found it should be upheld. She 
said that Mr and Mrs C were in their 50s and it was noted that they had insufficient pension 
provisions, so she wasnt convinced they had the capacity to take as much risk as they did 
here. Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk had been recorded as medium, but the investigator 
wasnt satisfied that Mr and Mrs C would have understood what that meant. She found the 
fund was predominantly invested in equities and she wasnt convinced that Mr and Mrs C 
understood the level of risk that entailed. She recommended that Barclays calculate the 
return Mr and Mrs C would have achieved had they invested 50% of their money in fixed rate 
bonds, and 50% in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
Barclays disagreed, as they felt the equities within the fund were blue chip companies and 
not highly speculative shares. Even though Mrs C had no pension provision, if she were to 
make no money, Mr and Mrs C would still have a small amount of disposable income, so 
they felt the investment was affordable. Barclays said that the adviser would have explained 
the different risk levels and Mr and Mrs C would have had time to decide what was best. 
They also felt that Mr Cs job as a director of a business would have given him some 
knowledge to understand the risks involved. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for the same 
reasons. 
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs C were 55 and 54 respectively. Mr C was the director of 
a company and Mrs C worked part time, their joint income was £1,220 per month after tax, 
with £400 disposable income and no recorded debts. Mrs C had no private pension provision 
and was planning on retiring at 60. Mr C was planning on retiring at 65 and had a pension  
but the adviser noted that he ought to fund it at a higher level to ensure it provided enough in 
retirement. They had a total of £27,000 in deposit-based savings, £3,000 of which was in a 
cash ISA in Mrs Cs name. 
Though the source of Mr and Mrs Cs lump sum savings wasnt confirmed in the point of sale 
documents, the CMC has said it was from savings accumulated over time. Its agreed that 
the £27,000 was all their available money. They had no other savings plans, protection 
policies, or pensions  other than state pensions and Mr Cs pension. 
Mr C was ten years from retiring at the time of the advice, and its not clear how insufficient 
the adviser felt his pension would be. Nor is it clear whether hed have time or the spare 
money to save enough additional money to have a sufficient pension. In five years-time, Mrs 
C was planning on retiring. Though they would have been able to cover their basic 
expenditure without her income, this would have meant a change to their circumstances that 
theyd need to adjust to, as theyd have less freedom with their finances and would need to 
be more budget conscious. I think the adviser ought to have recognised that it was likely 
they would need to rely on the £27,000 in order to maintain their standard of living in 
retirement.
I cant see any warnings from the adviser about the impact on their lifestyle which could be 
caused by the types of losses that can be involved in the type of investment that Barclays 
recommended. I dont think it was suitable for Mr and Mrs C to invest almost 40% of their life 
savings in a fund that involved the level of risk that the Managed Growth fund included, 
given their likely need to rely on this money later in life, and Ill explain why. 
The Managed Growth fund is a fund that invests in other funds and at the time of the advice, 
it consisted of 72.95% in UK funds, 26.69% in overseas funds, and 0.36% in cash/cash 
equivalents. There is evidence that some of the underlying funds involved fixed interest 
investments  but from my understanding, most seem to invest primarily in equities. 
Barclays has said that the fund invested in mostly blue chip companies, not speculative 
shares. However, from the description of the investment strategy, and the titles of some of 
the underlying funds I dont agree that the fund only, or even predominantly, invested in blue 
chip companies. For instance, titles like the Smaller Companies Fund, and the b2 Market 
Track 350 Fund suggest investment in non-blue chip companies. Theres no mention in the 
fund managers strategy of blue chip specifically, or descriptions of similar, more traditionally 
stable, types of investment. Also, theres still significant risk of capital loss even with blue 
chip companies  they follow the market in times of wider market downturns.  
Barclays has also said that investments of this type were part of a government backed 
initiative at the time to encourage regular investors to enter the markets. This is largely 
irrelevant  simply because the government was encouraging people to invest, or providing 
tax incentives to encourage people, doesnt mean that investing in shares was suitable for 
everyone. So, I dont agree that the investment was as safe as Barclays is making it out to 
be in their submissions to our service. Its a fund that appears to have invested in a range of 
investments which collectively had the potential to expose a large proportion of Mr and Mrs 
Cs money to a significant risk of loss. Overall, Im not convinced that Mr and Mrs C had the 
capacity to invest this much of their life savings in a fund that involved this level of risk. 
In addition to this, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs C would have understood the amount of 
risk involved here either. Their attitude to risk was noted as medium, but Ive not been provided with a suitability letter and theres nothing in the fact find to indicate what 
discussion was had around their attitude towards risk. Barclays has said that the adviser 
would have explained the definitions of the four available risk levels  risk averse, low risk, 
medium risk and high risk. In my opinion the definition of risk averse clearly states that it 
involves some guarantee and a wish to avoid any loss. As Mr and Mrs C didnt pick that 
category, I think they were willing to take some amount of risk. The definitions of low and 
medium risk were:
Low Risk  You are a reasonably cautious investor. You require a significant proportion of 
your savings to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared to 
accept fluctuations in capital values to achieve your longer term investment objective. 
Medium Risk  You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings to be 
in cash form, but less than that of the low risk investor. Again, you are prepared for 
fluctuations in the value of the remainder of your investment, to obtain the prospect of higher 
long term returns to match your investment goals.
In my opinion it would have been tricky for first-time investors to grasp the difference 
between those two risk levels  other than the amount of money the investor is willing to hold 
in cash. Typical investor and significant are subjective terms and could easily sway a 
consumer to one risk level over the other, without really ensuring they understand what the 
different levels of risk entail. Because of this I think the risk levels are not very clear and 
would be quite subjective depending on the individual investors understanding. Theres also 
nothing that sets out the different assets that are likely to be involved in funds at the different 
risk levels  and the types of return and fluctuations that each asset type could involve. This 
is especially important here, given that Mr and Mrs C were first time investors, so had no 
previous experience to inform their understanding.  
Barclays has said the adviser would have taken Mr and Mrs C through the product literature, 
which included risk warnings. Ive looked at the warnings in the key features brochures and 
can see they do include general warnings about how the value will be subject to fluctuations, 
both due to the prices changing and the currency risk attached to the overseas investments. 
However, they dont illustrate how drastic the fluctuations could be, nor do they further 
explain the different levels of risk. Ive seen no evidence that the risk of equity investments, 
compared with the risks involved in other assets like fixed interest or property, were 
explained to Mr and Mrs C.
Barclays has also noted that the risk definitions were approved by the regulator at the time. 
Regardless of that fact, the rules and principles that applied at the time meant that the 
adviser needed to consider the individual client and their needs and circumstances. Further, 
the adviser needed to ensure Mr and Mrs C understood what they were buying and the risks 
it involved. Im not persuaded that there is enough evidence to show on balance, that Mr and 
Mrs C were made aware of what risks were truly involved in medium risk compared with the 
other levels. It follows that Im not convinced theyd have been aware of the risks involved in 
the particular investment that Barclays recommended. 
I dont accept Barclays argument that Mr Cs profession meant that he would have 
automatically been able to understand the different assets that were likely to be involved at 
the different risk levels. Theres no indication that he had a financial background and while 
the titles of the risk levels may have obvious meanings, the content of investments at 
different risk levels is dependent on how each business defines that level of risk. What 
matters is whether the adviser did enough to ensure that Mr and Mrs C knew what Barclays 
meant by medium risk. In light of the description we have of medium above, and Mr and Mrs 
Cs lack of experience, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C truly understood what amount of risk would be involved in a medium investment in general, or this particular fund 
specifically. 
So Im not convinced Mr and Mrs C were able to make a properly informed decision about 
whether to accept the advice they were given. Even if it had been explained more clearly, I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs C would not have chosen to invest in the Managed Growth Fund. 
This is because I think its unlikely theyd have wanted to risk quite so much of their savings 
in such a way, given their proximity to retirement. Also, I think their lack of previous 
experience of losing money would have made them hesitate, had they been fully aware of 
the large possible fluctuations in value involved here. As Ive set out above, Im also not 
satisfied that it was suitable advice based on their circumstances and Ive set out below what 
Barclays should do to put things right. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs C as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr and Mrs C would have invested differently. 
It is not possible to say precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied 
that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs C's circumstances 
and objectives when they invested.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs C fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
ISAs No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs C wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs C into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs C would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs C could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide details of its calculation 
to Mr and Mrs C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022. 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman