DRN-2736321
The complaint
Mr P complains that V12 Retail Finance Limited (V12) rejected a claim he made to them 
about misrepresentation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
If Mr P was told something that was false, and if that false statement led him to enter into an 
agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to him and Id ask V12 to take some further action.
Mr P says that the supplier told him hed be able to hear the metronome for his drum set in 
stereo through his headphones but that didnt turn out to be the case.
On balance, Im not persuaded it is likely Mr P was given the wrong advice. I say that 
because:
If Mr P had asked about the metronome functionality before buying the goods I think 
he would have realised it wasnt present very soon after hed taken receipt of the 
drum set. But I cant see he mentioned it to V12 in the emails he exchanged with 
them in late 2019 and I dont think theres evidence he raised the issue until June 
2020, about nine months after hed received the goods.
I cant see any correspondence between Mr P and V12 or the supplier before the 
goods were delivered in which Mr P asks about the metronome functionality.
There are unfortunately no phone records available of the calls Mr P had with the 
supplier in which he says he was told about the metronome functionality.
Mr P says that the supplier should have known he would need that functionality on 
his drum kit especially because he was ordering two (one for live work) but I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest the supplier should have made those enquiries or 
have understood the need for the function.
Mr P also says the supplier were clearly trying to get rid of old stock and that the new 
stock would have had the functionality required. But, even if that were proven, I dont 
think there is evidence the product was misrepresented to Mr P. The supplier didnt 
have to mention that a new product was being released and, even if it had, they have 
explained they werent aware about that release.
Mr P has also explained that he wasnt given an opportunity to test the drum kit as 
this was a distance sale. The relevant legislation gave Mr P the right to reject the 
drum set within the first 14 days if it wasnt what he was expecting. But I cant see   
Mr P chose to do that and I dont think the supplier had to offer Mr P an opportunity to 
test the drums before they were dispatched; that was for Mr P to arrange if he wished 
to.
So, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence of misrepresentation here and Im not 
asking V12 to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman