DRN-4107640
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc transferred money in the wrong 
currency leading to an exchange rate loss.
T is represented by its director. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to their actions, and those of 
other people acting on behalf of T, collectively as Ts.
What happened
T wanted to transfer about £50,000, in Sterling, to a Sterling account held abroad. The 
transfer was made in the receiving banks local currency and had to be returned due to a 
change in account numbers at the receiving bank. T got back about £40,000 because of 
changes in exchange rates. T says HSBC is responsible for this exchange rate loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T says, in summary, it had transferred money in Sterling previously and it asked HSBC to 
make this transfer in Sterling too. So by creating a transfer instruction to send the money in a 
foreign currency it made a mistake. And while T accepts it didnt check the instruction 
properly before signing it, it says HSBC didnt do enough to talk it through the key parts of 
the instruction and it considers the format of the instruction itself could be clearer. 
I accept T most likely asked for the transfer to be made in Sterling. I say this because thats 
what it had done previously, and it had an invoice in Sterling to pay. And I accept this 
transfer instruction may have been arranged in a foreign currency when it shouldnt have 
been. So HSBC may well have made a mistake initially. But that doesnt take away from 
what happened next. 
I have seen a copy of the Priority Payment Customer Authority form. Its a page long and 
sets out all the key details including:
- Around the middle of the page, the payment amount. This is a large number in a 
foreign currency and is above the debit amount, which is about £50,000. 
- Near the bottom of the page, a little above where T signed the form, the exchange 
rate.
- There are Xs marked in pen next to some of the details, such as the payment 
amount and the exchange rate, which T say were placed by the HSBC staff member. 
I find the information set out in the form clear. It follows Im satisfied HSBC did enough to 
make T aware the transfer would be made in a foreign currency, and not Sterling. The onus 
was then on T  especially given the size of the transfer and the commercial nature of the 
transaction  to check the information was correct. Unfortunately, this didnt happen, which T 
accepts to be the case. And because T signed the instruction, thereby giving its authority for 
the transfer to be made, I find it was appropriate for HSBC to proceed with it. 
Im aware T is a family business. And Im aware this loss has caused the family a great deal 
of worry. I must, however, approach this matter objectively. Having done so, I dont find I can 
fairly and reasonably require HSBC to reimburse T for its loss given the loss could have 
been avoided had T checked the instruction before signing it, as it ought reasonably to have 
done.
Related to this matter is a delay in the return of the money from the receiving bank. HSBC 
recognised it was in part responsible for this delay and paid redress. T has confirmed this 
isnt something which needs to be considered by our service. But for completeness, I agree 
HSBC let T down here and Im satisfied the redress it paid was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman