DRN-2051567
The complaint
Mr F says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr F bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out an unsecured personal loan. 
The loan included an amount to pay for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F says he was led to believe that he needed to take the PPI as a condition of having 
the loan.
Mr F has told us he applied for the loan at a meeting. But Nationwides records show 
that the loan was sold over the phone by Nationwide Direct. Whether the policy was 
sold by phone or in a branch isnt crucial here in any event. This is because we know 
that Nationwide operated a similar process whether policies were sold by phone or in a 
branch. And in both situations, the adviser was required to make it clear that the PPI 
was optional.
I accept that its possible that the usual process wasnt followed here. But I need to 
reach a view on what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the information 
I have. And there isnt enough for me to say that the usual process wasnt followed in 
this case. Whats more, Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement which was sent to Mr F 
after the phone call. It includes a reasonably prominent column headed Optional Credit 
Insurance. So I think its most likely that Mr F would have realised that he didnt have 
to take the PPI. 
I acknowledge that Mr F says that by the time the paperwork arrived, hed already have 
felt committed, and relieved to have had the application accepted in principle. So he 
says hed have been more likely to have grudgingly accepted the PPI than to have 
cancelled the loan if it appeared that the PPI had been optional after all. I understand 
Mr Fs point. But Ive explained that I think its more likely than not that hed already 
been told during the phone call when he applied for the loan that the PPI was optional. 
And I think it most likely that it was added to the loan because hed decided he wanted 
the protection the policy offered  although I can understand how he may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
Mr F says Nationwide recommended the PPI to him. But based on what we know of the 
way Nationwide sold these policies at the time, I think its unlikely that advice was 
given. This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr F. But 
it did have a responsibility to make sure that he had enough information to make an 
informed decision about whether the PPI was right for him.
Mr F has told us he cant remember whether hed have received any sick pay from his 
employer at the time if hed been off sick, although he thinks its likely hed have been 
entitled to at least six months sick pay. But even if he would have been entitled to 
some sick pay, I think its unlikely that this would have made the policy unsuitable for 
him. If Mr F had made a successful claim for sickness, the policy would have paid his 
monthly loan repayments until he returned to work or, if sooner, until the loan was 
repaid. And it would have paid the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim if hed lost his job. 
The policy would have given Mr F peace of mind that his loan repayments would 
continue to be made if he hadnt been able to work. Whats more, it would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mr F received from his employer. So he could have 
used those to meet other living expenses. Taking everything into account, I think the 
PPI could have provided a useful benefit to Mr F, especially as hes told us hes not 
sure whether he had any other means he could have fallen back on to meet his loan 
repayments if he was off sick or if he lost his job.
The cost of the policy was shown on the credit agreement  including the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think Mr F would 
have understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term.
The cancellation terms meant that Mr F would have received a proportionate refund, so 
he wouldnt have been disadvantaged if hed wanted to settle the loan and cancel the 
PPI early. So I dont think more information about the cancellation terms would have 
made a difference.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look as if Mr F 
would have been affected by any of these. So I dont think better information would 
have made him change his mind about taking out the PPI.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F. Its clear that he feels strongly that the PPI was mis-sold. 
But for the reasons Ive set out, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman