DRN-3215883
The complaint
Ms J complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) increased the 
premiums on her motor insurance, and then cancelled her policy, when new information 
came to light. 
What happened
Ms J took out motor insurance underwritten by AA. Just over a week after she took out the 
policy, Ms J had an email from AA saying it had carried out checks and discovered that Ms J 
had been involved in a previous non fault incident which she hadnt declared. AA asked Ms J 
to pay a small additional premium or cancel the policy. Ms J didnt do either, and after 
several reminders and warnings, AA cancelled the policy. Ms J says she then had to take 
out a new insurance policy at short notice and because of the cancellation by AA the new 
policy cost more. Ms J complained to AA. AA said it believed it had resolved the matter.
Ms J wasnt happy with this response, and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld Ms Js complaint, saying AA hadnt offered Ms J the options it should have. The 
investigator said AA should put things right by removing any mention of the cancellation of 
Ms Js policy on external databases, and pay her £50 compensation.
AA didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me. Ms J says AA wasnt clear with her 
that the policy would be cancelled if she didnt pay the extra premium. She wants AA to 
apologise for this misleading communication, rescind the cancellation and refund her the 
extra shes had to pay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Ms Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance policy. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ms J took out the policy via a price comparison website. One of the questions asked was 
In the last five years, have you had or caused any accidents, claims or damage involving 
any motor vehicle (including cars, motorbikes and/or vans), even if no claim was made and 
regardless of blame?
Ms J says she answered no to this question because she didnt realise the previous incident 
was relevant and had forgotten about it. She says she realises now this was an error, but 
she hadnt declared it previously and it had never been an issue.
I think Ms J failed to take reasonable care when answering the question. AA has provided 
evidence that if Ms J had declared the previous incident then the original quote for her policy 
would have been higher. So Im satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation. AA hasnt 
suggested the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, and Im satisfied this was a 
careless misrepresentation.
So Ive looked at what CIDRA says AA could have done when it found out about the 
misrepresentation. In cases of careless misrepresentation where there hasnt been a claim, 
the relevant part of CIDRA is Schedule 1 Part 1 paragraph 9. This says that if the insurer 
would still have entered into the contract knowing the full information but would have 
charged a higher premium, the insurer may cancel the policy or reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on any claim.
The key point here is that CIDRA doesnt say the insurer can charge an additional premium. 
That said, there are circumstances where it may be fair for an insurer to give a consumer an 
option to pay the additional premium. But it cant insist that they do so. So I dont think AA 
has treated Ms J fairly in insisting she either pay the additional premium or cancel the policy 
without giving her the other option set out in CIDRA. Ms J says that if AA had given her the 
option of having any future claims reduced proportionately, she would have considered this. 
Instead she says she was trapped into either paying extra for the policy or having to pay to 
cancel it. Even though when she was notified of the additional premium Ms J was still within 
the initial 14 day cooling off period to cancel the policy, because the cover had started she 
would have had to pay an administration fee to the broker and a minimum fee for the period 
of cover if she cancelled. Ms J had to pay very slightly more for her new policy than if she 
had stayed with AA and paid the extra premium for the same cover. I think AA should 
compensate her for this and for her inconvenience.
I cant agree with Ms J that AA wasnt clear with her that the policy would be cancelled if she 
didnt pay the extra premium. AA sent Ms J three emails about the outstanding payment over 
a period of about six weeks. The last email was clear that if Ms J didnt pay the outstanding 
amount, her cover would end in two weeks. Then about three weeks after the last letter, AA 
emailed Ms J to say the policy had been cancelled. So I wont be asking AA to apologise for 
this communication.
My final decision
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must ensure any reference to Ms Js policy 
having been cancelled is removed from relevant external databases. AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited must also pay Ms J £50 for the inconvenience caused by not 
offering her all the options it should have, and for the very small increase in the premium for 
her new insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sarah BaalhamOmbudsman