DRN-3285328
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted and closed his account without notice or 
explanation.
What happened
Mr G held personal current account with HSBC. 
HSBC began a review of Mr Gs account on 18 August 2020. It applied a restriction to the 
account while it did so, limiting Mr Gs access to it. The bank also restricted his business 
account, which is the subject of a separate complaint.
Following the review, HSBC decided to close Mr Gs account and confirmed this to him in 
writing on 14 January 2021. 
Mr G complained as he was unhappy that HSBC hadnt given any notice of the restriction or 
provided a timescale for when it would be lifted  leaving him unable to use his account. 
HSBC says there were no errors in how it handled things. It said that it restricted and 
reviewed Mr Gs account to comply with its legal obligations, and that it ended its relationship 
with Mr G in line with the terms and conditions of his accounts. 
Our investigator thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld in part. She said that HSBC had 
acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when restricting and reviewing Mr Gs 
account. And she noted that the bank had allowed Mr G to withdraw funds while the review 
was ongoing. But she thought there had been an unreasonable delay in arranging to close 
the account, meaning the account balance (of around £40) hadnt been released to Mr G. So 
she thought that the bank should send the closing balance to Mr G and pay him £50 
compensation.
HSBC accepted our investigators view, although it said that it would need Mr G to visit a 
branch to arrange the release of funds as its records indicated that his address had 
changed. As Mr G didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account allowed HSBC to suspend its services. HSBC 
has explained that it did so in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. And while I note Mr G was 
unhappy at the lack of information or explanation he received about the review, HSBC 
wasnt required to give him notice or its reasons. It also wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require the bank to do so now.
I recognise that the immediate and indefinite restriction of his account wouldve caused Mr G 
concern and a level of inconvenience. That said, I dont think it was particularly disruptive -
 as the account balance was only around £40 at the time, and HSBC allowed Mr G to pay a 
cheque in and withdraw the funds while the restriction was in place. Ultimately, as Ive not 
found that HSBC did anything wrong in undertaking the review or applying the restriction, it 
follows that I dont think its responsible for any impact they might have had on Mr G. So 
while I dont doubt that this caused Mr G some concern and that he spent a lot of time 
chasing things up with the bank, I dont think this is something that HSBC needs to 
compensate him for.
Following the review, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from Mr G. That was a decision 
it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed HSBC to close the account 
immediately in certain circumstances and Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so here. 
Again, the bank isnt required to explain the reasons for its decision to Mr G and I cant fairly 
require that it share any more information on this than it already has.
HSBC has accepted that it ought then to have arranged the closure of Mr Gs account  and 
the release of the account balance  more quickly than it did. It has confirmed that it will 
attend to this but that it now cant send a cheque for the balance to him as it understands his 
address has changed. So Mr G will need to speak to HSBC to arrange the closure and 
release of the account balance. It may be that he can simply withdraw cash in branch by 
providing identification, but he should liaise with HSBC directly about that.
HSBC has agreed to pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
closing the account and releasing the funds held therein. I think thats a fair way to put things 
right. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr G compensation of 
£50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman