DRN-2899888
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has declined claims he made 
under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
References to Great Lakes also include its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again in full again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr A made two claims to Great Lakes for assistance with legal costs relating to 
contract disputes. The claims were declined, as Great Lakes said the contract disputes 
section of the policy only provides cover where the contracts are entered into during the 
period of the insurance policy. Mr A disagrees the policy should operate in this way and feels 
his claims should be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A feels strongly that his claims should be covered. I want to assure Mr A Ive 
considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has made. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties to reach what 
I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
I can also assure Mr A that his complaint is correctly directed against Great Lakes as it is the 
insurer of his policy and the party ultimately responsible for any claim decision. It may have 
chosen to allow agents to act on its behalf and those are the parties Mr A is more familiar 
with. However, for the purposes of this service, his complaint will be directed to the insurer of 
the policy.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that 
Great Lakes has acted reasonably in declining Mr As claims.  Ive reached this decision for 
the following reasons:
Each insurer is entitled to decide what risks it wishes to provide cover for and impose 
any restrictions on cover as it sees fit. We wouldnt usually interfere in this, however 
what I have done is check that Great Lakes has fairly interpreted and applied the 
policy terms and conditions to the circumstances of Mr As claims. 
The claims Mr A wish to make are for contract disputes. Under that section of the 
policy it explains the policy will only provide cover where the contract is entered into 
during the period of the insurance.
We think its fair for insurers to limit cover for contract disputes in this way, even 
where (as Mr A alleges) the dispute only came to light after the policy started, so long 
as the policy terms are sufficiently clear. In this case, Im satisfied they are. 
Ive reviewed the circumstances of Mr As claims and Im satisfied it is more likely 
than not, he entered into the contracts before his policy started. So, given the above, 
Im satisfied that any allegations regarding the contracts Mr A entered into arent 
covered by this policy. 
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. I think Great Lakes has applied 
the policy terms fairly and has acted reasonably in declining Mr As claims.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman