DRN-3881766
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had travel insurance, as a benefit of his packaged bank account. The policy provided 
cover for various pre-departure, and post-departure risks.
Mr H travelled on holiday on 6 June 2022. And was due to return home to the UK on 11 June 
2022. However, he wasnt able to take his return flight home, as planned. This was because 
whilst abroad Mr H tested positive for Covid-19. As Mr H wasnt able to fly home, he needed 
to extend his accommodation abroad, until such time as he was able to return to the UK.
Given this, Mr H contacted his travel insurer, UKI to make a claim under this policy, and 
arrange this extended accommodation. However, Mr H has explained that he experienced 
problems with the progression of his claim. He said he had to contact UKI throughout the 
claims process to try and progress the matter. And, because UKI hadnt dealt with the claim 
efficiently enough he had to take the decision to pay for the extended accommodation costs 
himself, and then claim this back from UKI. 
Mr H said that because UKI didnt process his claim quickly enough, hed had to make the 
accommodation payment on his credit card. And, so as to avoid any interest on this credit 
card, he had to cash in shares to pay the funds off the card. Meaning he had suffered a 
financial loss.
UKI considered Mr Hs complaint and upheld it. UKI said it didnt keep Mr H updated as it 
should have  and Mr H had to contact it for updates instead. UKI also recognised that Mr H 
took the decision to book the extended stay in a new hotel, because UKI hadnt been able to 
confirm availability to remain in his current hotel efficiently enough. 
To recognise the stress and upset this provided Mr H UKI offered him £350 compensation. It 
said this amount also made up for the fact that Mr H had to cash in shares to cover his credit 
card bill and avoid any interest charges. UKI said it had sent the £350 to Mr Hs account, and 
he should get it within two weeks.
Mr H didnt agree UKIs position on the matter was fair. So, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
considered the £350 UKI had already offered to be a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
matter.
Mr H disagreed. He felt £750 compensation was a more reasonable figure for the trouble 
and upset experienced. 
As Mr H disagreed this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the £350 already offered by UKI is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. So, I dont require UKI to do anything more. Ive explained why 
below.
Firstly, its important to note that UKI has settled Mr Hs claim. The complaint isnt about that 
settlement. Rather, its about how UKI dealt with the claim before paying it. So, thats what 
Ive considered when coming to my decision on this complaint.
 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether UKI 
acted in line with these requirements when it dealt with Mr Hs claim.
To do this, Ive reviewed what happened between the point Mr H made his claim on 11 June 
2022 and the date UKI provided its final response on Mr Hs complaint, which was 1 August 
2022. 
UKI has accepted there were delays during this period. And I agree with its summary of 
these delays, given the claim files Ive seen. 
I think there were times where UKI could have contacted Mr H and kept him more informed 
of what was happening. Mr H was poorly and needed to extend his stay abroad at the last 
minute. So clear and efficient messages from UKI would have been important for him. It 
appears that UKI was trying to extend Mr Hs stay  but there were problems with it securing 
the booking  meaning it was waiting to speak to the hotels reservations manager. But, UKI 
could have let Mr H know this, and any alternative options to move the matter forward  
including if that meant Mr H would need to pay for the additional accommodation and claim it 
back. This would have made the situation less distressing. 
Mr H has also noted he was asked for a medical certificate when he had already provided 
this to UKI. I can see from UKIs complaint notes that it accepts this did happen. And so, it 
made a mistake here too, which caused additional confusion to Mr H, at an already difficult 
time.
I understand that Mr H returned home on 23 June 2022, after having booked the hotel 
accommodation he needed himself, and recovered enough to return home. So, he was 
waiting for these funds to be returned to him. I can see UKI were taking action, following 
Mr Hs return to the UK, to consider and settle his claim, which I think was fair. But UKI has 
recognised that its timescales to review claims at that point meant Mr Hs hotel bill was due 
before it was able to respond and settle the balance. Which I also understand caused Mr H 
some frustration and worry. So, Ive also considered this when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
With the above in mind, I do think it fair and reasonable for UKI to provide compensation to 
Mr H for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. Its clear that Mr H was troubled 
and upset by the situation and worrying about where he would be able to stay, whilst poorly. 
And he was inconvenienced by needing to contact UKI himself to chase the claim. UKI have 
offered Mr H £350 compensation. So, Ive considered whether this amount is fair. And whilst 
I appreciate Mr H felt £750 is more reasonable, Im satisfied the £350 offered and paid to 
him is fair.I say this because I think it fairly recognises the couple of days where Mr H was needing to 
chase the matter, whilst poorly. And that he needed to purchase the extended 
accommodation himself, given it was unclear what was happening with the booking. 
I dont think the distress and inconvenience, for a fairly short period of time, is sufficient to 
warrant additional compensation.
Mr H has said he had to cash in his shares in order to pay for the additional costs he 
incurred through his extended stay, which hed initially placed on a credit card. This service 
asked Mr H whether he had suffered a financial loss in respect of this, and for evidence that 
was the case. Mr H hasnt responded to provide any evidence of financial loss in respect. As 
Ive seen no evidence of financial loss in that regard, I dont award Mr H anything for this 
element of his complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £350 UK Insurance Limited has already 
offered, and paid Mr H is fair. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman