DRN-2714638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Northern Rock plc which became NRAM plc, continued to 
record adverse information on their credit file from 2018 after NRAM had already admitted 
that they made errors on it.
They also complain that NRAM is failing to include all statutory information on their 
statements even though NRAM are now sending out updated ones. Mr and Mrs H believe 
that this renders the account unenforceable, therefore NRAM cannot charge interest under 
the rules contained within the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). 
What happened
As the business changed from Northern Rock plc to NRAM plc, I will refer to the business as 
NRAM throughout my decision.
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 2002 and as part of their borrowing, they took out an 
unsecured personal loan. 
They raised a complaint with NRAM in 2018 and complained about several issues which 
they brought to our service. A jurisdiction decision was sent out by our service letting both 
parties know that we would only consider the following, as the remainder of the complaint 
points made were out of time:
NRAMs actions relating to what they have recorded with credit reference agencies 
since their final response letter in 2016;
NRAMs actions relating to the unsecured loan complaint for the six years prior to 
when they complained to NRAM in 2018.
NRAM sent Mr and Mrs H a final response letter dated 19 October 2018 letting them know 
that their credit file had been amended and adverse information recorded had been 
removed. They also confirmed that they had refunded a £54.00 field agent fee which was 
previously applied to their account. NRAM said they arranged for a payment of £350.00 to 
be credited to Mr and Mrs Hs bank account as a goodwill payment.
Mr and Mrs H provided us with a letter that they had received from NRAM in December 2012 
where NRAM had said they reviewed communications that had been sent to consumers and 
that some of their communications didnt comply with the requirements set out by the CCA. 
In order to correct these errors, NRAM said they were going to re-send revised annual 
statements from 01/11/2008 until 30/11/2014. In addition to this, they said they would also 
refund any interest and default charges which Mr and Mrs H were charged during the period 
of non-compliant documentation.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy as they still believed their statements were incorrect and their 
credit file hadnt been amended.
The case was looked at by our investigator, who didnt think that NRAM had acted unfairly. 
He said the statements contained all relevant information required and that he couldnt see 
anything wrong with the credit file, since NRAM had amended it.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. In summary they said:
They didnt agree that the errors with their credit file had been amended by NRAM 
They have provided documents which show that NRAM have admitted to not 
supplying all relevant information on their statements and say they are paying 
interest that they are not required to pay
Mr and Mrs H asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr and Mrs H have very strong feelings about this complaint. They have provided 
detailed submissions in support of their view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Mr and Mrs H will not take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail than their submissions, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
Credit file 
We already said in our jurisdiction decision that we would only consider what NRAM had 
recorded with credit reference agencies since 2016 which follows on from a previous 
response they had sent to Mr and Mrs H  so this is what I will focus on.
Mr and Mrs H believe that NRAM were continuing to record adverse information from 2018 
despite NRAM admitting to making errors on it previously. I dont think its in dispute that 
NRAM had made errors in what they reported to credit reference agencies and that they 
continued to record incorrect information after they told Mr and Mrs H that it had been 
resolved.
Mr and Mrs H raised this again with NRAM in 2018 and NRAM sent Mr and Mrs H a letter 
dated 19 October 2018 letting them know that their credit file had been amended and 
adverse information recorded had been removed. They also confirmed that they had 
refunded a £54.00 field agent fee which was previously applied to their account. NRAM said 
they arranged for a payment of £350.00 to be credited to Mr and Mrs Hs bank account as a 
goodwill payment.
NRAM have confirmed that this issue has been resolved and that they are now reporting 
everything correctly. Ive taken a look at the credit report that NRAM have provided to see 
what has been reported since 2018.
When looking at the history of both the secured and unsecured loan from 2016 to October 
2018, OK has been recorded across both loans. This means that there are no issues with 
that reporting month and no adverse information has been recorded. 
Ive looked at the statements that have been provided by NRAM to match them up against 
the credit report and I can see that they do match. From the time that NRAM said they 
amended the credit file, there have been no errors made that I can see.
The secured loan from December 2018 until November 2019 has a 1 next to each month 
and from looking at the mortgage statements, I can see that one month wasnt paid in full, so 
this seems to tie in with what has been reported on the credit file.
I cant see that anything looks as though it has been reported incorrectly since NRAM 
confirmed that they have amended the credit file accordingly. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have said that they have lost out on a better rate as they 
could have moved their mortgage elsewhere and had it not have been for the errors on the 
credit file, they would have been able to do this. While I understand the comments surrounding this, its difficult to guarantee that Mr and Mrs H would have been successful in 
remortgaging elsewhere and NRAM compensated them for the errors made on their credit 
file which I think is sufficient to put things right in these circumstances.
Account statements
It was decided that we could only look at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the account 
statements for the unsecured loan six years prior to when they complained to NRAM in 
October 2018. I will therefore consider what has happened since 31 October 2012.
Mr and Mrs H referred us to Schedule 1, Part 1 of the regulations in relation to the content 
required in a fixed sum statement. They said paragraph 3 outlines the information required 
and that the statements do not include the following required information:
at (b) the amount of credit and where applicable to be provided under the agreement:
at (d) (i) the date on which the agreement became executed of at (d) (2):
at (e) (i) the duration of the agreement or at (e) (ii) the minimum duration period:
at (h) the amount and date of any interest or other charges payable by the debtor 
which became due during the period to which the statements relate, whether the 
interest of other charges only related to that period.
Mr and Mrs H then go on to say that in relation to Section 77A of the CCA the relevant parts 
as to the above consequences for non-compliance are:
paragraph (2)  Regulation may make provision about the form and content of 
statements under this section
paragraph (6)  (a) the creditor shall not be entitled to enforce the agreement during 
the period of non-compliance, (b) the debtor shall have no liability to pay any sum of 
interest to the extent calculated by reference to the period of non-compliance or any 
part of it.
Mr and Mrs H first became aware of this when they received a letter from NRAM, which I 
have seen, dated December 2012. This letter states that NRAM said they reviewed 
communications that had been sent to consumers and that some of their communications 
didnt comply with the requirements set out by the CCA. In order to correct these errors, 
NRAM said they were going to re-send revised annual statements form 01/11/2008 until 
30/11/2014. In addition to this, they said they would also refund any interest and default 
charges which Mr and Mrs H were charged during the period of non-compliant 
documentation.
NRAM has said they have rectified these issues and compensated Mr and Mrs H as they 
said they would do in their letter, and that all statements have since met the requirements 
set by the CCA. Mr and Mrs H said that NRAM still continue to breach section 77A of the 
CCA for the reasons set out above and are not entitled to charge interest or any fees. They 
said that NRAM should be aware of this fact given the paragraph they have added to their 
statements stating they have not supplied this information under the heading more 
information.
Mr and Mrs H said that under more information on their statements it says This statement 
does not contain all the information which you are entitled to receive from us about your 
agreement. If you would like to receive this extra information, please get in touch with us to 
obtain it. We are required to provide you with this information within fifteen working days of 
receiving your request for it. The information we have not included in this statement is the 
amount of credit, the duration and the date of first movement in relation to your Fixed Sum 
Credit Agreement.
Mr and Mrs H argue the following:under regulation 3(d) (i) and (ii) of the CCA regulations 2007, NRAM have to supply 
the date of the executed agreement or the date of first movement. This is the date of 
the original credit agreement or the date either of the funding of the loan to the 
account or the first payment is missing
the amount of credit provided is missing as per the requirement of part 3 (b). This is 
the amount of original loan provided 
the length of the loan (the duration) is not included
the requirement of section 77A of the CCA 1(A) that all statements must relate to 
consecutive periods not exceeding 12 months is not complied with. There are gaps in 
the statement chain that do not cover November 2014, and this has not been rectified
I must remind Mr and Mrs H that we are only looking at what has happened since October 
2012 as they have made some comments about things that have happened prior to this 
date, which I will not be commenting on. We also look at each case on its own merits taking 
into account relevant law, regulation and industry practice. We then decide what we think is 
fair and reasonable and if a business has acted in this way. I will not be commenting on any 
other case that Mr and Mrs H have alluded to.
I have taken a look at statements alongside what Mr and Mrs H have said about them.
The statements include the amount of credit outstanding, the date the agreement started 
and the remaining term of the agreement. The statements also show how much interest is 
applied each month. I can also see the date of the first movement is showing on the 
statements. 
The paragraph Mr and Mrs H mention more information is contained within each statement. 
NRAM may not have provided all the information that was available since the loan was taken 
out which is why they give Mr and Mrs H and other customers the chance to contact them for 
any other information they required. But the statements I have seen, have enough 
information on there and include the changes that NRAM made following on from their 
review. These statements have the information on there that we would typically expect to 
see.
Mr and Mrs H also said that the statement from November 2014 was missing. We have been 
provided with a copy of this statement which was addressed to Mr and Mrs H at their correct 
address. Therefore, I am satisfied that there are no gaps in the statements which have been 
sent to Mr and Mrs H.
I appreciate they believe that the loan is unenforceable because certain information is said 
to be missing and that NRAM should not be charging Mr and Mrs H interest for the period of 
non-compliant statement, but I dont agree. From what I have seen, the statements have 
been rectified and NRAM should be entitled to ask Mr and Mrs H for payment of the debt.
As our investigator has already mentioned, Mr and Mrs H seem to be looking for a decision 
on legalities which our service is not set up to do. We look at what is fair and reasonable 
and, in this situation, NRAM has not acted unreasonably and we will not be asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman