DRN-2709628
The complaint
Mrs U complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have 
unfairly restricted her legal funding to £100 per hour for her legal expenses insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mrs U submits that DASs rate of £100 per hour is unreasonably restrictive and contrary to 
Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990, 
which provides a policyholder with the freedom to choose their own solicitor from the point 
they need to commence legal proceedings. 
DAS are obligated to ensure that they do not frustrate Mrs Us freedom of choice by 
imposing terms that are too restrictive. But they are entitled to ensure that the costs being 
incurred are reasonable and, when theyre looking to limit the indemnity recoverable under 
the policy, they are obliged make this clear.
The policy terms and conditions state:
Legal expenses  important
In the event of a claim, if you decide not to use the services of a preferred law firm, 
you will be responsible for any costs that fall outside the DAS Standard Terms of 
Appointment, and these will not be paid by us

The most we will pay in costs and expenses is no more than we would have paid to a 
preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting as an appointed 
representative) is currently £100 per hour
So, Im satisfied that DAS have made it clear in the policy documentation the maximum 
hourly rate they are willing to pay. I can see that DAS were also upfront about the maximum 
hourly rate in their email to Mrs U on 6 April 2020. But Ive considered whether this has 
unreasonably restricted Mrs Us freedom to choose her own solicitor. 
Our approach to such issues follows the Court of Appeals decision in Brown-Quinn & Anor v 
Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Anor [2012] EWCA Civ 1633, where the court held that 
a legal expenses insurer has the right to restrict what they would pay to a non-panel solicitor, 
provided the remuneration is not so low as to render the policyholders freedom of choice 
meaningless. Mrs Us solicitors submit that her discrimination claim is particularly complex, 
such that it justifies DAS paying their hourly rate of £217 per hour plus VAT. 
If it were the case that Mrs Us legal claim was so complex, such that DAS was unable to 
instruct any of their preferred law firms to take the matter forwards, then I would expect them 
to negotiate paying a higher rate than it would to its own panel firms. But in this instance, 
DASs panel solicitors have confirmed that they would be able to take on Mrs Us legal claim. 
So, Im not persuaded that her case is so complex that only her chosen solicitors (or other 
specialist firms charging similar rates) are qualified to take it forwards. DAS has said that it 
will pay £100 per hour towards Mrs Us legal fees if she continues to instruct her own 
solicitors, but that she will need to make up the difference. And given that DAS have also 
been able to offer Mrs U alternative legal representation for £100 per hour, Im not 
persuaded that the hourly rate does render her freedom of choice meaningless in these 
circumstances, as its clear that she would be able to instruct an appropriately qualified firm 
to take on her case at this rate, without having to pay anything extra.  
I appreciate it will be disappointing to Mrs U that she is not able to have all of her chosen 
solicitors fees covered under her insurance policy. But as Ive explained above, the insurer 
is entitled to restrict what they would pay to a non-panel solicitor, and Im satisfied that the 
hourly rate has been made clear in their terms and conditions, and that it doesnt render her 
freedom of choice meaningless given that she would still be able to instruct other firms to 
pursue her discrimination claim at DASs applicable rate.  
Therefore, Im not persuaded that DAS have acted unreasonably in these circumstances, 
and I will not be asking them to take any further action. I note that Mrs Us solicitors have 
also made comments about the policy being mis-sold, as they say she would not have taken 
it out had she known of the restriction on the hourly rate. But any such complaint would need 
to be directed to the relevant firm that sold her the policy. So, I will not be able to comment 
on such matters within this decision against DAS. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman