DRN-3317079
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the service shes received from Barclays Bank Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, surrounding her not receiving an account statement in November 2021.
What happened
Miss G didnt receive a statement for her Barclays credit account for the month of November 
2021. Miss G contacted Barclays about this and was told that there was an error and that 
Barclays were working to get the statement out to her. Miss G then chased Barclays about 
this and was told at that time that the statement hadnt been received because Miss G had 
herself changed the statement date on her account, which wasnt the case. Miss G wasnt 
happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Miss Gs complaint. They explained that they had changed the date that 
Miss Gs statement would be received in order to bring her statement frequency into 
alignment with other Barclays credit accounts. Barclays acknowledged that Miss G had been 
inconvenienced by not being given this information in the first instance, and they made a 
payment of £25 to Miss G by way of compensation for that inconvenience.
Miss G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays response to Miss 
Gs complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place, 
and so they didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Miss G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Miss G, having not received her 
November 2021 statement, to have then been told incorrect and inconsistent information by 
Barclays when she contacted them about this issue. And it seems clear to me that there was 
a lack of knowledge and understanding across Barclays staff as to the fact that Barclays had 
changed the statement dates of some of their credit account holders, and that this resulted in 
Miss G being given incorrect information by Barclays in the first instance. 
In their response to Miss Gs complaint, Barclays acknowledged that Miss G had been 
inconvenienced by what had taken place, and they made a payment of compensation to 
Miss G of £25 in recognition of this.
This feels fair to me, and while I appreciate that Miss G feels that a higher amount of 
compensation should be instructed here, I feel that the £25 that Barclays have already paid 
already represents a reasonable resolution to this complaint, and as such I wont be 
instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
One of the reasons I say this is because Barclays did issue a statement to Miss G on the 
new statements date six days after Miss G had been expecting her November statement, 
and also because Miss G could access her account information by other means, such as 
telephoning Barclays, if she needed that information in the interim.
I appreciate that Miss G was unsettled by being given incorrect and inconsistent information 
from Barclays when she first contacted them about this, and I acknowledge that Miss G was 
inconvenienced by this. But I feel that the acknowledgement of this fact by Barclays, and the 
payment of £25 compensation, already provides fair recompense for these points, and I can 
confirm that the amount of compensation already paid by Barclays is commensurate with 
what I would have instructed Barclays to pay, had they not already done so.
Finally, I note that Miss G would like Barclays to compensate her for the time that shes 
spent on this matter calculated at an hourly rate by Miss G. Again, I can appreciate Miss Gs 
position here, but this service doesnt generally look to instruct reimbursements on the basis 
of time spent and on hourly rates, but rather upon consideration of all the circumstances of a 
complaint, including the impact on the customer. And, in this instance, as explained above, I 
feel that the £25 that Barclays have already paid Miss G already provides fair compensation 
in light of what has happened here.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any 
further action at this time. I realise this wont be the outcome Miss G was wanting, but I hope 
shell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman