DRN-3375168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the suitability of investment advice provided by a predecessor
business of Barclays Bank UK PLC. Theyre represented by a claims management company
(CMC), which has said, in short, that Mr and Mrs A were inexperienced investors, advised to
take too much risk without proper consideration of tax-free alternatives and they were misled
about the likely investment performance.
What happened
In September 2000 Mr and Mrs A were advised to invest £100,000 into a portfolio of 
shares. There were six holdings in total  all FTSE 100 companies, with the portfolio 
weighted towards the telecoms and computing sectors.
Regular reviews and valuations of the portfolio were sent to Mr and Mrs A over the 
subsequent years, with very little in the way of changes being made to the portfolio. It was 
then eventually liquidated in full in December 2008, with a residual value of around 
£30,000.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs As CMC complained to Barclays about the suitability of the advice. 
Barclays said the complaint had been made too late and the matter was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. It was decided that we were able to consider the merits of 
the complaint and an investigator went on to do so.
She concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said, in brief:
There was little information available from the time of the advice.
However, the signed application form recorded some details of Mr and Mrs As 
circumstances  they were in their early 50s, self-employed higher-rate 
taxpayers with a joint income of over £200,000 per year.
The form also showed they had a preferred level of risk of medium, with an 
option selected that 50% of the portfolio be committed to higher risk securities.
This all being so, the recommendation appeared to have been broadly suitable 
for them and consistent with their circumstances.
Mr and Mrs As CMC responded to say it disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It
reiterated its arguments around the level of risk and Mr and Mrs As circumstances, and their
lack of investment experience. It maintained the advisor had failed to act with appropriate
care and diligence at the time of the advice and in the years following it. It highlighted as an
example that a fact-find for the advice hadnt been completed until months after the
investments had started. It said Mr and Mrs A had been assured the investments would
perform well, and they had regularly queried the status of the portfolio and voiced concerns
with the adviser by telephone.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me
to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
I note Barclays has continued to dispute that this service has jurisdiction to consider the
merits of the complaint. However, as no further evidence on this point has been provided, I
see no reason to revisit the decision previously reached by my colleague, who found that the
complaint could be considered.
Turning to its merits, its perhaps not surprising nearly 22 years on from the provision of the
advice that theres little documentary information available. But there is some, and Ive
looked at it in detail, balancing it against the evidence of Mr and Mrs As recollections of
events and the backdrop of the wider circumstance of the complaint. Having done so, Ive
provisionally come to the same conclusion as the investigator  that the complaint shouldnt
be upheld.
In September 2000, prior to investing in the portfolio, a New Client Form was completed.
This recorded general personal details about Mr and Mrs A  address, dates of birth, phone
numbers, etc  but it also included some details about their personal and financial
circumstances. It was recorded that they were married, with two grown-up children, self-
employed higher rate taxpayers earning over £100,000 each. Sections relating to other
investments, pensions, employer, etc. werent completed (although in a later document
Mr A was recorded as being a director).
It was noted that their investment objective was capital growth, with a preferred, acceptable
level of investment risk being medium, which was further qualified with an acceptance that
50% of any investment could be in higher risk securities. This was also a section where Mr
and Mrs A opted to have their securities registered through the business nominee service
selection and that the account would be for Discretionary Portfolio Management. The form
was then signed and dated by them.
As a result of engaging with the business and completing this form a recommendation was
then made to invest £100,000 into a portfolio of shares as described earlier  six FTSE 100
stocks, namely Marconi, BAE Cable & Wireless, Pearson, BT and Vodafone.
Investing £100,000 directly into shares, as opposed to collective investments (funds, unit
trusts, investment trusts or bonds, etc), sits towards the higher end of the investment risk
spectrum. But Mr and Mrs A were high earners, some years from retirement, with no
dependents and seemingly happy to accept that the money in question be committed, in part
at least, to higher risk securities. I stress this point as the use of the term securities in the
New Client Form, particularly in conjunction with the nominee selection and the fact Mr and
Mrs A were seeking discretionary portfolio management, suggests to me they were most 
likely looking to create an equity portfolio of the sort recommended.
And in the context of pure equity investment, the portfolio wasnt particularly high risk  
the shares selected were all in FTSE 100, blue chip companies. The 50% higher risk that 
Mr and Mrs A selected appears to have been represented by the adviser weighting the 
portfolio towards specific sectors  telecoms and computing  a point he later 
acknowledged in one of the review letters he sent to Mr and Mrs A. So, overall, Im 
satisfied the recommendation of such a portfolio was, on balance, likely to have been 
suitable.
The CMC has said that Mr and Mrs A were inexperienced investors and I accept that there 
was no record of any other investments on the New Client Form. But there was reference 
to other investments in later documentation, for instance a review letter of 30 June 2006, 
which showed that Mr and Mrs A held a Winterthur portfolio each in sole names, in 
addition to the joint portfolio thats the subject of this complaint.Ive asked about these other portfolios, but Mr and Mrs A cant recall much detail and have 
suggested they were pensions, cashed in at retirement, for which they no longer hold any 
documentation. While I note their recollections on this point, given the respective values of 
the portfolios (which is what they were referred to as in the review letters) of only around
£12,000, it seems unlikely they were pensions. But in any event, they nevertheless 
demonstrate that Mr and Mrs A did have other investments of some sort, at least during 
the time they held the joint portfolio, if not necessarily before.
The CMC has also questioned the advice based on a fact find apparently not being 
completed until March 2001, some months after the portfolio started. It suggests that this 
late completion was a back-covering exercise to try and justify the advice given in 
September 2000.
But I dont think the completion of the March 2001 Financial Appraisal document can 
necessarily be linked to the earlier advice. If it was intended to correct an error made in 
September 2000, it failed to do so as very little information was actually recorded. Income, 
asset/investment, mortgages and life assurance sections were left blank or marked N/A. 
An objective of Investment  lump sum or regular savings was noted and a medium 
degree of risk was again selected, although on this occasion this was in the context of 
investments of different types  mixed asset funds, equities, property, government stock, 
etc  not solely securities, as had been the case for the joint portfolio recommendation.
As such, I think its quite possible this document was completed for a different purpose  
perhaps in relation to the Winterthur portfolios mentioned above. Either way, I dont think 
its existence, in itself, supports an argument that the portfolio was in some way wrong or 
unsuitable.
So, in summary, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to find, on balance, that the 
business acted incorrectly in advising Mr and Mrs A to start the portfolio. It clearly 
experienced a very significant drop in value over the eight years during which it was held. 
But that period encompassed two of the biggest crashes the FTSE has ever experienced  
with around £40,000 wiped of the value of the portfolio in its first eight months.
I think that may explain why, although information was regularly provided by the adviser, 
very little change was made to the portfolio  only one small sale from the BAE holding in 
June 2001. Once the initial loss had occurred, and the Marconi holding then further 
impacted the value, remaining invested as opposed to making changes and crystallising 
losses was a reasonable course of action. I note, for example, that the portfolios value was 
rising over the course of 2006.
Clearly, its difficult to conclude with any certainty what happened given the passage of time
and the resulting lack of documentation. But, on balance, I think its entirely plausible that a
couple in Mr and Mrs As financial circumstances in 2000 sought out an equity portfolio to
take advantage of what, to that point, had been a steadily rising market. The CMC has said
that they were under the impression they were in low to medium risk investments. But the
documentation doesnt support this, and I think its more likely than not they were aware they
were invested in an equity portfolio, which in all the circumstances was suitable for them.
Barclays didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr and 
Mrs As CMC, responded to say, in brief:
Mr and Mrs As financial circumstances had no relevance. Their wealth was derived 
from business, not from investment.
Therefore, they had no stockmarket experience and had been advised to diversify 
into stock and shares by their accountants. The adviser couldve recommended disinvesting from Marconi sooner and the 2008 
stockmarket crash had little effect on the portfolio as so much value had already 
been lost by that point.
Mr and Mrs A relied upon the adviser. He failed to take action to sell shares and cut 
losses. There was very little in the way of investment management. 
It was crucial that there was effective management of the investment. Mr and Mrs A 
were never asked if they wanted to leave the investment.
In the first instance risk had presumably been limited by the choice of investments to 
control medium and high risk. But these risks each had to be properly managed to be 
effective and the risks were heightened by the ineffective management  the adviser 
not selling at various times to save the falling value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view of the complaint remains the same as that set out in my provisional 
decision. I dont think it should be upheld. 
Ive carefully considered the CMCs further detailed submissions. I dont feel its necessary to 
address every point raised but I would say that I think Mr and Mrs As financial 
circumstances at the time of the recommendation will have been a relevant consideration 
when assessing suitability. Their capacity to manage loss would have been important as well 
as their appetite for risk. Despite their wealth having been accumulated through their busines 
ventures, it would seem reasonable for an adviser to have looked at diversifying into stock 
market investment, which I note is something the CMC says their accountants had 
suggested. 
The CMC has commented in detail about the ongoing management of the portfolio and the 
failure by the adviser to recommend selling to avoid further losses. While it can be seen with 
hindsight that alternative courses of action may have been more beneficial, I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence to support a finding that the adviser acted incorrectly. Losses 
occurred soon after the investment started, in the main, as I noted in my provisional 
decision, due to one of the biggest crashes the FTSE had experienced at that point. The 
portfolio was intended to be held for the medium to long term, and, as I said previously, it 
was, for example, increasing in value and recouping at least some of the losses during 2006. 
In summary, I can understand Mr and Mrs As disappointment that investing in the portfolio 
led to such significant losses. But, on balance, I remain of the view that it was suitable for 
them - consistent with their circumstances and financial objectives at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman