DRN-3354099
The complaint
Mr B complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited damaged his cars lock when it made a 
repair under his key replacement motor insurance policy. He wants the lock repaired and 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr B made a claim when he lost his car keys. Astrenska sent a locksmith who picked the 
lock and provided a replacement key. But he had to return a second time as he couldnt then 
provide an emergency key. He then told Mr B that there was an underlying problem with the 
central locking system. Mr B thought this damage had been caused by the locksmith. But 
Astrenska said it had been noted after the first visit, it wasnt covered by the policy and it was 
for Mr B to sort out. Mr B was unhappy with this.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
locksmith had reported the underlying problem after his first visit. She thought he couldnt 
have caused damage to the lock. And so she thought it was more likely that there had been 
an underlying problem and Astrenska wasnt responsible for this. 
Mr B replied that the replacement key worked fine after the first visit by the locksmith, but he 
couldnt then cut an emergency key as he was out of blanks. He said that the locksmith 
couldnt later cut an emergency key and after this visit his replacement key didnt work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B felt frustrated that after the locksmiths second visit he was left 
with a car he couldnt secure. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the 
insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think Mr B was provided with replacement keys as required by his policy. But unfortunately 
the keys didnt work. I can see that there are conflicting versions of events: 
Mr B said his cars locks worked fine before the locksmiths visits. But the locksmith said 
Mr B had told him on his first visit that the remote function for the locks worked 
intermittently. 
Mr B said the replacement key worked fine after the first visit, albeit the key would only 
enter the lock at the three oclock position and wouldnt turn. But the locksmith noted 
underlying problems with the central locking after his first visit.
Mr B thought the locksmith could have damaged the locks on his second visit. But the 
locksmith said the specialist equipment used couldnt have damaged the locks.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Mr B has explained what happened. But I have to give greater weight to the expert 
engineering evidence provided. And Im persuaded by the claim notes, the job sheet and the 
locksmiths expert testimony that he didnt cause any damage to the locks by his picking the 
cars lock or cutting replacement keys. 
And so, in the absence of further engineering evidence, I think Astrenska has justified its 
decision that there was an underlying problem with the central locking system that came to 
light because of the claim. 
So I think Astrenska acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. And I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman