DRN-4150059
The complaint
Ms B complains that NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In January 2018 Ms B applied for a Marbles Credit card. Marbles approved the application 
and gave Ms B a card with an initial credit limit of £900. The credit limit was increased to 
£2400 in July 2018, to £3800 in November 2018, to £4550 in March 2019 and to £6050.
In January 2021 Ms B applied for an Aqua credit card. Aqua approved the application and 
gave Ms B a card with an initial credit limit of £1200. The credit limit was increased to £2200 
in November 2021.
Ms B complained that NewDay had lent to her irresponsibly. NewDay didnt uphold the 
complaint. it said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Ms B.
Ms B wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
After the complaint had been referred to this service, NewDay reviewed the complaint and 
said that the last credit limit in each card wasnt suitable for Ms B. It said that Ms B hadnt 
utilised the increased credit limit on either card.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that the credit limit increase to £6050 on the 
Marbles account was irresponsible and that the credit limit increase to £2200 on the Aqua 
account was irresponsible. The investigator explained that whilst this service would usually 
require the lender to refund interest and charges applied to the account on balances over the 
credit limit, in this case there was nothing to refund because Ms Bs balance had never 
exceeded £4550 on the Marbles account or £1200 on the Aqua account.
Ms B didnt agree with the outcome. She said shed been caused financial hardship because 
of the amount of credit shed been given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, NewDay needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Ms B could afford to repay what was being lent. These checks needed to be 
borrower focussed and could take into account things such as the amount of credit, the total 
sum repayable and the consumers financial circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to do. But lenders are required to have regard to 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Marbles
Ms B declared an annual income of £36,000 when she applied for the account. She also 
declared unsecured debt of £4600.
Marbles carried out a credit check. This showed no adverse information.
Given that the credit limit was low, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
There was nothing to suggest that the credit was likely to be unaffordable for Ms B. I think 
the lending decision was fair. 
Ive reviewed the information that Marbles gathered before each credit increase. The 
account had been generally well managed. Ms B had a couple of late payments but had 
otherwise made payments on time and in excess of the minimum contractual payment. 
The credit checks showed that Ms Bs level of unsecured debt remained at a similar level 
throughout the first, second and third credit limit increases. Up to this point I think the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate and the lending decisions were fair.
However, when the credit search was carried out prior to the last credit limit increase, this 
showed that Ms Bs unsecured debt had increased significantly and that she had entered 
into a payment arrangement with another of her creditors.
NewDay has subsequently said that it shouldnt have increased the credit limit to £6050. I 
agree. The information obtained from the credit checks showed that Ms B was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay further credit. I think the final credit limit increase was 
irresponsible. 
Aqua
Ms B declared an annual income of £30,000 when she applied for the account. She also 
declared unsecured debt of £9200.
Aqua carried out a credit check. This showed no adverse information.
Aqua also looked at how Ms B was managing her Marbles account. This was being well 
managed. There was nothing in the information gathered to suggest that Ms B was 
struggling to repay her debts.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate and the 
lending decision was fair.
The credit limit was increased to £2200 in November 2021. The credit search carried out 
prior to the last credit limit increase showed that Ms Bs unsecured debt had increased 
significantly and that she had entered into a payment arrangement with another of her 
creditors.
NewDay has subsequently said that it shouldnt have increased the credit limit to £2200. I 
agree. The information obtained from the credit checks showed that Ms B was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay further credit. I think the final credit limit increase was 
irresponsible. 
Putting things right
In circumstances where an irresponsible lending complaint has been upheld, we would usually ask the business to refund interest and charges applied to the account.
However, in this case, although Ive found the last credit limit increases on each account to 
be unfair, I can see that Ms B never exceeded a balance of £4550 on the Marbles card or 
£1200 on the Aqua card. So no charges and interest have been incurred as a result of the 
unfair credit limit increase.
Therefore, although Ive upheld the complaint, I wont be asking NewDay to refund any 
interest or charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint but for the reasons Ive explained, NewDay 
Ltd doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman