DRN-2513236
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs response to his GDPR request.
What happened
Mr S used to be a customer of Barclays. In January 2020 he asked Barclays to send him 
information it held about his accounts in a machine-readable format. He repeated this 
request in February. After some delay, most of the information he had requested was 
provided in June, but not in the required format. Also, some of the data included was about 
someone else.
Mr S complained, and Barclays accepted that it had not provided adequate service. Barclays 
apologised and offered him £150, later increasing its offer to £250 when it realised that it 
might not be possible to provide all of the information in the requested format. But Mr S was 
not satisfied, and so he brought this complaint to our Service. He was concerned that some 
of the data he had requested might have been deleted during the delay. He also complained 
that Barclays had sent him its final response letter when the matter had not yet been finally 
resolved, since some information was still outstanding.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said £250 was fair compensation for the 
delay. There was no evidence to suggest that any data had been deleted since February. It 
wasnt uncommon for a business to send a final response letter while a matter was still 
ongoing. She said Barclays had tried in good faith to provide the data in a machine-readable 
format but had not succeeded, and she did not think this was unreasonable, due to the age 
of some of the data, which went back to 2000. 
Mr S did not agree with that opinion. He accepted that £250 was enough compensation for 
the delay, but he did not think that was enough to cover the eventuality that Barclays might 
not be able to provide all the requested information in the requested format, nor was he 
persuaded that no data had been deleted since his original request. He said he did not want 
punitive damages, he just wanted his data to be provided to him in a machine-readable 
format. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has asked for a hearing, but I think this complaint can be fairly determined without one.
There is no evidence from either party to suggest that any of Mr Ss data was deleted since 
he made his original request. I do understand why Mr S is worried about that possibility, but 
in the absence of any evidence to support his concern I must conclude that this aspect of his 
complaint is purely speculative.
I think that Barclays did try to fulfil Mr Ss request for the data to be provided in a machine-
readable format. It eventually conceded that it was unable to do so. I accept that the reason 
this took some time was because Barclays was trying to comply. Just because some of the 
data was machine-readable, it does not follow that all of it must be, and that Barclays is just 
withholding it. It is unfortunate that Barclays was unable to provide it, but (as Mr S is aware) 
it is not within my power to punish the bank for any contravention of data protection law  
that would be a matter for the Information Commissioners Office, not for this Service.
I think that £250 is fair compensation for both the failure to provide data in the desired format 
and for the delay. It is in line with what this Service would typically award. I will not award 
additional compensation for the fact that a third partys data was accidentally sent to Mr S, 
since I cannot see that he was prejudiced by that event, and (as I have said) it is not my role 
to punish Barclays by fining it for data protection breaches.
Finally, I think the complaint about the final response letter is not a point I have jurisdiction to 
consider. That is because my jurisdiction is limited to complaints about activities specified by 
the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaint-handling is not a specified activity.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, on the ground that the £250 offered by 
Barclays is fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman