DRN-1785697
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs D in connection with a 
mortgage they arranged in 1998. The policy provided cover for Mrs D if she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicator's 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs D the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs D are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs D say they don't remember the PPI being properly discussed when they took out 
their mortgage. They say Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, 
and that they werent given a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs 
D have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs D 
and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application form included a section about PPI. This 
included options for accepting or declining the cover, which said:
'Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance'  and
'No, I do not wish to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. I understand that I 
will be responsible for my repayments each month if I am unable to work.'
Mr and Mrs D's application was completed to show that they wanted the cover and Mrs D 
signed the relevant section of the form. She then had to complete a separate application 
form to apply for the PPI. From what I've seen of the documents, there was nothing to 
suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs D have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs D to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
- Mrs D was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
- Mrs D says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due to sickness 
or accident, and that she and Mr D had some savings. Mrs D also says her 
employment was secure, and that she was entitled to good redundancy benefits. But 
the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ds employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs D could use Mrs D's employer benefits 
and their savings to pay for other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been 
useful to them, despite their existing arrangements. 
- Mrs D wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely she and Mr D needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- The PPI cost was set out in the application form Mrs D signed. So I think she and Mr 
D knew how much they would be paying for the policy and found it acceptable. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs D would have made a different decision if better information about the cost 
had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely she and Mr D 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr and Mrs D have mentioned that they reduced their mortgage in 2012. So they think its 
possible theyve paid too much for the PPI premiums since then.
For the purpose of this complaint, Im only able to consider whether the PPI was mis-sold. If 
Mr and Mrs D consider they may be due a refund of overpaid premiums, they will need to 
raise this as a separate matter with Halifax and/or the insurer.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman