DRN-2852969
The complaint
Ms W complains about the decision taken by Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) to block a card 
linked to her current account.
What happened
In March 2020 Ms W contacted Monzo with some concerns she had about £7.90 debited to 
her current account on 14 February 2020.
Being unable to satisfy Ms Ws concerns about the transaction of £7.90, Monzo took the 
decision to block the then card linked to her current account and to her issue her with a new 
one.
In blocking Ms Ws card Monzo explained to her that, amongst other things, she could still 
send and receive bank transfers and have the block lifted temporarily for urgent payments or 
cash withdrawals.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. She concluded that in all the circumstances Monzo had acted entirely fairly and 
reasonably.
Ms W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I accept that Ms W never said to Monzo that she didnt make the payment of £7.90, but 
rather she was looking for further information to satisfy herself that she did make it. But 
equally Im satisfied that Ms W never told Monzo that she had made, or authorised, the 
payment despite being asked on more than one occasion by Monzo whether she had.
So, in my view, I think it was entirely appropriate, fair and reasonable for Monzo to do what it 
did. This was to block Ms Ws card to prevent any unauthorised use of it in the future whilst 
allowing her at the same time access to funds if she needed access before she was in 
receipt of a new card.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that Im satisfied that Monzo provided Ms W 
with all it could in support of its decision to debit her current account with £7.90 on 
14 February 2020 and its final response couldnt be viewed, by any reasonable 
interpretation, as blackmail.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman