DRN-2391624
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Admiral. In August 2018 he 
made a claim for subsidence after he noticed cracks in various places at his property. 
Admiral sent a contractor to inspect the damage. During the visit Mr C mentioned that the 
previous owner had made a claim for subsidence that had been linked to a broken drain.
In March 2019 Admiral wrote to Mr C to confirm that as he hadnt previously declared the 
historic claim for subsidence, it would only be settling his current claim proportionately. It 
said that if it had known about the historic claim, it would still have offered insurance but at a 
much higher premium. So it said it would settle his claim based on the proportion of the true 
premium that he had paid for the policy. It said this amounted to 38%. So would only pay 
38% of the value of the claim.
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said the previous claim had been minor so he didnt think 
he needed to tell Admiral about it. Further he said he didnt think the proportionate 
settlement value was fair. He said this valued his insurance at around £1,700 when his 
renewal had been around £900. And he had checked comparison sites and found even 
cheaper quotes. He also said he wasnt happy about the service he had received from 
Admiral and its agents and felt they had caused avoidable delays to the claim. He made a 
complaint to Admiral.
Admiral upheld the complaint. It said it accepted there had been some avoidable delays and 
offered Mr C £200 compensation to make up for this. However, it said its decision to settle 
the claim proportionately was correct.
Mr C didnt agree, he thought Admiral had over-valued the cost of the policy if he had 
declared the historic claim. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Admiral had caused a 
lot of avoidable delays and should pay an additional £200 compensation to make up for this. 
However she thought it had acted fairly in how it had chosen to settle the claim. And said 
that Admiral had provided its calculations to show the value it had used to calculate the 
settlement was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree, he said it wasnt fair that he hadnt been able to see Admirals calculations 
of the premiums and he still thought they were unfair. He also said the claim was still not 
resolved and this meant the subsidence had got worse, which was due to Admirals poor 
handling of the claim. So he thought Admiral should pay more to compensate for this. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C isnt happy with the settlement offered by Admiral in relation to his claim for 
subsidence. Admiral believes that Mr C made a misrepresentation when he took out and 
renewed the policy as he hadnt informed it of the propertys history of subsidence. And it 
says it has offered a fair settlement based on this. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Admiral thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
was asked about whether his property had been previously affected by subsidence. 
Although it hasnt been possible to retrieve a copy of the original call where Mr C took out 
the policy, Admiral has provided its claim notes that detail the call. From these I can see the 
question asked was: And the property has not been affected or monitored for subsidence, 
landslip heave or structural movements? and to this Mr C answered No. I think this 
question makes it clear that Mr C should inform Admiral of any subsidence that has taken 
place at the property, and not just those he has made personally. 
Mr C has said he was aware of a claim made in 2005 by the previous owners in relation to 
subsidence, but didnt declare it due to the fact that no underpinning had been required. 
However, I think the question asked makes it clear that any incident of subsidence should be 
declared that affected the property. So as Mr C accepts he was aware of the previous claim, 
I dont think he took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation here.
This call was from when the policy was initially taken out in 2016, since then it has renewed 
each year. Each renewal forms a new insurance contract. So I have also considered the 
information Mr C provided at the renewal in August 2017, as this covered his 2018 claim. 
Admiral sent Mr C a proposal ahead of the renewal. At the top of this proposal it states as 
follows:
You must check this document carefully because it is your record of the information you 
have provided and we have used this to assess the risk we are undertaking. Once you have 
checked this document, if any information is found to be incorrect, please contact us 
immediately. Failure to notify us of corrections or changes could mean we do not pay your 
claim, reduce the amount you are able to claim or even result in your policy being declared 
void.
Further down it states: 
Subsidence, landslip or heave: NoFrom the information provided by Mr C, I can see that he was aware the property had a 
history of subsidence. So Im satisfied that by answering No to this statement at renewal, he 
didnt take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation.
I now need to decide if there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this, I need to 
consider whether the fact Mr C didnt give accurate information made a difference to the 
policy cover Admiral provided. 
Admiral has provided notes from its underwriter to show the considerations made when 
agreeing to accept and renew a policy. These are confidential, so Im not able to share the 
full details. However, from looking at this information, Admiral has shown that Mr C paid 
£673.40 for his policy, whereas the price would have been £1,783.37 if hed not made the 
misrepresentation. So Im satisfied that if Admiral had been aware of Mr Cs propertys 
history of subsidence, it would still have offered him a policy bit would have charged a higher 
premium. Therefore Im satisfied Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And, in the 
circumstances, I think he acted carelessly rather than recklessly or deliberately. 
CIDRA says where a careless misrepresentation has occurred, and the insurer has shown it 
would have offered a policy but at a higher price, then the insurer can settle the claim 
proportionately. As Mr C paid £673.40, this works out as roughly 38% of the full amount the 
policy would have cost. So under CIDRA, Admiral are only required to settle up to 38% of Mr 
Cs claim. So Im satisfied that Admiral has acted fairly by offering this amount towards the 
settlement of the claim.
Mr C says he doesnt think the premium Admiral has based its calculations on is fair. He 
says, since Admiral has known about the historic claim his premium has only gone up to 
around £900. And he has found much cheaper quotes from other insurers. So he says he 
doesnt think Admiral is correct in stating it would have charged £1,783.37 for the policy and 
thinks it should contribute more to the claim.
I can understand why Mr C feels strongly about this, particularly given the prices he has 
found online. However it is for an insurer to decide what it charges for different risks. And 
Admiral has provided very detailed information about how it has calculated the price of the 
policy. Based on the information Im satisfied that that it has based its calculations on 
accurate costings. And therefore treated Mr C fairly when calculating the proportionate 
settlement. 
I note that Mr C has asked to see these calculations. Information around how an insurer 
prices a policy is commercially sensitive, so we arent able to share the information. However 
I would like to reassure Mr C that Ive carefully read and considered the information provided 
as part of this decision. 
Mr C has also said he is unhappy with how long the claim has taken to resolve. He says it is 
still ongoing and because of this, the damage has got worse. As part of this complaint, I 
have only considered Admirals actions up until it issued its final response to this complaint 
in June 2019. 
I can see that from when Mr C made the claim in August 2018, it took a long time for Admiral 
to confirm its position on the settlement. And it didnt inform him of this until March 2019  
seven months after. From looking at the claim notes and correspondence during this time, I 
cant see a reasonable explanation for why it took so long. I understand this would have 
been distressing for Mr C, as during this time no progress could be made to rectify the 
subsidence. And it would have been inconvenient as he had to contact Admiral numerous 
times. Admiral originally offered £200 compensation to make up for this distress and 
inconvenience. However, our investigator recommended it pay an additional £200, I agree this is a better reflection of the distress and inconvenience Admiral has caused Mr C. So I 
will require Admiral to pay £200 additional compensation to bring the total to £400.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr C an 
additional £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman