DRN-3586408
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined their 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have a travel insurance policy through their bank account, underwritten by 
AXA. They booked a trip abroad in August 2020 with a departure date of 3 December 2020. 
They returned to the UK on 26 February 2021 but had to quarantine in a hotel on their return 
at a cost of £2,400. 
Mr and Mrs A say AXA should cover the quarantine and other costs including a taxi and 
tests. AXA says there is no cover for their circumstances under the policy but it accepted 
that it hadnt given clear information and so offered to pay £200 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs A rejected the offer and brought their complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA needed to do anything further 
and said the £200 compensation was appropriate in all the circumstances. 
Mr A disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
When he called AXA to extend his trip cover, he was led to believe quarantine costs 
would be covered.
If he had been correctly told quarantine costs wouldnt be covered, he either would 
have extended his stay further or would have flown via another country. 
AXAs correspondence confirms he would be covered for quarantine.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer of £200 for the unclear information it gave to Mr A is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm when quarantine will be covered under the cancellation and 
curtailment section. This says:
We will pay you up to £5,000 inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section K 
for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (including excursions 
up top £250) and other pre-paid charges (including green fees of up to £75 per day, 
up to a maximum of £300) which you have paid or are contracted to pay together 
with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation or the Trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b. the Trip is Curtailed before completion
c. You have to make an Early Return 
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or illness of:
a. You
b. Any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
c. Any person with whom You have arranged to reside temporarily 
d. Your close Relative 
e. Your Close Business Associate
2. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a 
Court of Law of You or any person with whom You are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with
When Mr A called to extend cover, an additional document was given to him which set out 
some changes to the cover. This said:
Youll also be covered if you need to cancel your trip because either you, or a close 
relative, has been diagnosed with COVID-19 or any other pandemic illness, or if you 
need to quarantine following contact from the NHS Test and Trace service, or other 
UK equivalent service. Any claim will be subject to normal policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr A says the additional document explicitly confirms his quarantine costs will be covered. 
But this change is relevant to the cancellation and curtailment section and applies if Mr and 
Mrs A would have to cancel or curtail as a result of quarantine. It isnt a standalone term 
which pays out in the event of compulsory quarantine. 
The document confirms any claim will be subject to the normal policy terms and conditions. 
The normal policy terms and conditions confirm quarantine is covered as a result of 
cancellation, curtailment or early return. Mr A didnt cancel, curtail or return early. So I dont 
think his claim for quarantine costs (or the additional taxi and test costs) is covered. 
Mr A made a number of calls to AXA on 1, 2 and 9 February 2021 to ask whether his 
quarantine costs would be covered. Ive listened to these calls and have summarised the 
following key points:
Mr A said he wanted to avoid quarantine and was waiting for the UK government to 
announce further details. He would try to return early or stay longer with his daughter 
if for example he knew how long the quarantine requirements would be in place. Mr A wanted to know if his quarantine costs would be covered. AXA told Mr A it 
thought his understanding was correct but would pass him through to the sales team. 
AXA said Mr A would need to quarantine regardless and he would also need the 
correct trip extension in place for cover under the policy whilst still abroad. During the 
phone call, the sales team didnt clearly explain that quarantine costs wouldnt be 
covered.
Mr A asked if he would be covered for flight costs if he amended to an earlier flight to 
avoid quarantine. AXA confirmed it would cover curtailment and early flight costs. 
During the call, AXA said it wasnt sure whether hotel quarantine costs would be 
covered but it would email him to confirm. The agent confirmed the trip extension 
provided standard cover whilst Mr A remained abroad. 
Having considered the discussions Mr A had with AXA, I agree that he was led to believe 
that quarantine costs would be covered. I dont think AXAs information was clear. But the 
policy terms are clear and there is no cover for quarantine costs. Mr A would always have 
needed to quarantine even if AXA hadnt given him incorrect information. So I cant hold AXA 
responsible for those costs. 
Mr A says he could have flown an alternative route or stayed longer to avoid quarantine. But 
he also told AXA this was dependent on the quarantine programme. 
Im not satisfied that Mr A would or could have taken a different route or that he would have 
stayed abroad longer. By 15 February 2021, AXA confirmed quarantine costs werent 
covered. By this date, Mr A could have cancelled the trip extension as he was still within 14 
days or could have decided to make alternative arrangements if he wanted to avoid 
quarantine. 
AXA accepts that its information could have been clearer when Mr A called to ask about 
quarantine costs. It had agreed to cover additional travel costs if Mr and Mrs A curtailed their 
trip, and got an earlier flight but they werent able to do that. So AXA would have covered 
those travel costs as they would have been covered under the terms of the policy. But hotel 
quarantine costs arent covered and so I cant fairly ask AXA to pay. 
Overall, I think AXAs offer of £200 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for the 
unclear information it gave to Mr A and his disappointment as a result. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs A £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman