DRN-2542651
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service Admiral Insurance Company Limited provided in relation to 
his car insurance claim. 
What happened
In late 2017, Mr R was involved in an accident. He notified a claim with Admiral, which 
provides him with cover through a multi-car policy. The claim was settled in July 2020. 
Mr R has raised several complaints about how the claim has been handled. The one Im 
considering here relates to a complaint he raised in January 2020 and which Admiral 
responded to in March 2020. Mr R was unhappy with the service, such as how long the 
claim was taking and Admirals communication. In its response, Admiral explained that some 
of the points hed raised  about the overall time taken and the availability of evidence  had 
already been addressed separately. But it hadnt yet considered his concerns about how well 
hed been updated. Admiral admitted it could have kept him better updated, and offered 
£100 compensation for this. Mr R wasnt satisfied with the response. So he referred the 
matter to our service. 
Our investigator explained that she was only addressing the new points referred to us 
following Admirals final response in March 2020. She thought Admirals communication 
ought to have been better. For example, it took around six weeks to pass on an update from 
August 2019 about how the claim was progressing. Overall, she thought £100 compensation 
fairly reflected the impact this had on Mr R. But he thinks £200 compensation would be 
fairer. As no agreement has been reached, Im now making the final decision on how this 
complaint should be resolved. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Admiral has already fairly resolved this complaint. So Im 
not awarding further compensation. Ill explain why.
As Mr R is aware, the scope of this complaint is limited to the new points he put forward to 
Admiral that prompted its final response on 2 March 2020. I dont have the power to consider 
any complaints he hasnt referred to us. Nor would it be appropriate for this decision to 
address the complaints were considering, or have considered, separately. But for context, I 
understand Admiral has paid (or agreed to pay) around £725 in relation to separate 
complaints about how this claim has been handled.
So the key question here is  does £100 compensation adequately reflect the impact on 
Mr R of any poor claim handling between August 2019 and March 2020? This scope reflects 
that our service has already issued a final decision addressing the claim handling concerns 
he referred to us following Admirals final response in July 2019. And that any issues since 
March 2020 would need to be raised with Admiral and considered separately (such as the 
complaint another investigator is currently looking into about how it settled the claim in July 
2020). 
I understand that a claims investigator was due to meet with Mr R to get his statement about 
the accident around August 2019, but he cancelled the appointment. The investigators 
emailed Admiral on 16 August 2019 explaining they were therefore closing their file. At that 
point, I would have expected Admiral to pass on the update and ask Mr R how hed like to 
proceed. But theres no record that it contacted him about this until 4 October 2019. It tried to 
call him, then sent a letter asking if he was willing to reschedule the appointment. Following 
subsequent chasers, Mr R told Admiral in November 2019 that he didnt want to engage with 
the claim until our service had considered the separate complaint hed referred to us. I dont 
consider it unreasonable that Admiral therefore didnt take further action until he complained 
in January 2020; it was following his instructions. 
Even if Admiral had passed on the update from the investigators earlier, Im not persuaded 
the claim would have progressed quicker overall. I say this because, when it did speak to 
Mr R, he didnt want to provide a statement. But I do think Admiral should have done more to 
keep Mr R updated about how the claim was progressing. I dont consider six weeks a 
reasonable turnaround to contact him about how to proceed. And I appreciate this poor 
communication caused him upset. 
This incident occurred amid the wider context of a long-running claim which was clearly 
stressful for Mr R. But as our investigator pointed out, compensation has already been 
awarded for several other issues that hes complained about. Thinking about the impact of 
the poor updating, Im satisfied that £100 compensation fairly reflects Mr Rs distress and 
inconvenience.  
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr R, who clearly feels strongly about this 
complaint. But for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Admiral has proposed a fair 
resolution thats in line with how our service considers compensation for trouble and upset.  
My final decision
Admiral Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay £100, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman