The complaint
Mr L complains his travel insurance policy with Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) won't cover his claim for his missing belongings.
What happened
Mr L went on holiday in June. And he was covered under his annual travel insurance policy 
with Mapfre. When Mr L was on the plane travelling home he realised his laptop, Go-Pro, 
some clothing and foreign currency were missing from his bag. So he contacted Mapfre to 
make a claim the day he got home.
When notifying Mapfre about his claim, Mr L said that his belongings were out of sight when 
he returned a hired scooter on the last day of his trip. During this time his belongings were in 
his rucksack that was stored in a locker in the hostel he'd been staying in. Mr L said the only 
other times his rucksack was out of his sight was when it was placed in the back of the car 
he travelled in on the way to the airport, and when he went through security. Mr L said the 
circumstances of the theft/loss meant he wasn't able to report it until he returned home. He 
also said he had asked a friend  who lives in the area he visited to contact the hostel. 
However, the hostel told his friend nothing was handed in, and they refused to discuss the 
matter further.
While looking into Mr L's claim, Mapfre asked him for more information. They asked Mr L to 
provide more details of the circumstances that surrounded the loss of his belongings, and to 
provide a report from the hostel he stayed in. Mr L repeated what he'd told them earlier 
about leaving his rucksack in a locker. He also explained it would be impractical to get a 
report from the hostel as they no longer reply to him.
After considering this information, Mapfre wrote to Mr L explaining his claim had been 
declined. Mapfre said he wasn't covered because he hadn't reported his missing items to the 
police or an "appropriate network" within 24 hours of discovering his belongings had gone 
missing. Mr L disagreed with this outcome and raised a complaint. Mapfre maintained their 
decision was correct in their final response letter. As Mr L remained unhappy, he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't think Mr L's complaint should be upheld. She agreed Mr L's 
policy required him to report any lost belongings to the police, or at least the hostel he 
stayed in, within 24 hours.
DRN-1300119Mr L disagreed with our investigator and said he had text messages from the hostel about 
his belongings. After reviewing this information, Mapfre didn't think it was enough to show 
his claim should be paid. And our investigator didn't think Mapfre's decision was 
unreasonable given the content of the messages.
Mr L remained unhappy with the outcome, so his complaint was passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information provided, I'm not upholding Mr M's complaint. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to him. But I'll explain my reasons below.
In reaching my decision, I've had to consider the wording within Mr L's policy. That's 
because it sets out the expectations on Mapfre and it's policyholders when claims are made. 
Mr L's policy has a section called "What to do - Claims information". And it says that if 
money or personal belongings are lost, policyholders "must report this to the police (and 
hotel management if this applies)." 
Mr L didn't realise his belongings and money were missing until he was on the plane home. 
So it wasn't possible for him to notify the police in the country he'd just visited. However, his 
policy clearly says that hotel management should also be notified. I don't consider that's 
unreasonable if a policyholder believes their belongings went missing in their holiday 
accommodation. That's because we'd expect policyholders to take steps to mitigate their 
losses.
When Mr L first told Mapfre about his claim, he said that he had asked a friend to speak to 
the hostel about his missing belongings. However, he didn't provide Mapfre any information 
to show when this happened. Given the limited information, I'm not persuaded Mapfre acted 
unreasonably when they didn't cover his claim at that time. That's because they hadn't seen 
anything to show the policy term mentioned above had been met.
After receiving our investigator's findings, Mr L sent us screenshots of messages between 
himself and the hostel. Mapfre didn't think that was enough to show their policy terms had 
been met as they couldn't see what number had been used to contact the hostel. They also 
felt the content of the messages contradicted what Mr L had told them when he first raised 
his claim. That's because the messages didn't refer to Mr L's friend talking to the hostel. 
Instead, they said Mr L had messaged them with a list of the missing items when he returned 
home.
Again, I don't consider Mapfre has treated Mr L unfairly by not covering his claim after 
reviewing these screenshots. That's because they still don't show that Mr L contacted the 
hostel within 24 hours of noticing his belongings were missing. Had Mr L sent us and/or 
Mapfre the original message he refers to in the later messages, the outcome may have been 
different. But I've not seen enough information to persuade me Mr L met the obligations 
under the policy term quoted above.
Taking everything into consideration, I don't consider Mapfre have treated Mr L unfairly. And 
it's for this reason I won't be asking them to do anything to put things right. 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr L's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman