DRN-3538859
Complaint
Miss N has complained about a guarantor loan 1Plus1 Loans Limited (trading as 1 Plus 1) 
provided to her. She says that if the appropriate financial checks had been completed it 
would have been clear that the loan was unaffordable.
Background
1 Plus 1 provided Miss N with a guarantor loan for £1,500.00 in September 2013. This loan 
had an APR of 59.9%, a term of 30 months and was secured by way of a guarantee and 
indemnity agreement. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £2,598.90, which 
included interest, fees and other charges of £1,098.90, was due to be repaid in 30 monthly 
instalments of £86.63.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that 1 Plus 1 hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not have 
shown 1 Plus 1, Miss N would not have been able to sustainably repay the loan. 
1 Plus 1 disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint and issue a final decision.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice related to guarantor loans - on 
our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Miss Ns complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Im upholding Miss Ns complaint.
Before I go any further, there are a couple of points in 1 Plus 1s response to our 
investigators response that I consider it important to respond to directly. In the first instance, 
1 Plus 1 has said that the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
considers the type of credit it offers to consumers to be classed as HCSTC.
By referring to HCSTC Im assuming that 1 Plus 1 means High-cost short term credit. 
However, this loan predates the FCAs regulation of consumer credit and its definition of 
HCSTC. Notwithstanding this, while guarantor loans are now included in the FCAs high-cost 
lending portfolio, in the same way that HCSTC is, I dont think that this means that these 
products are one and the same. I say this because, amongst other things, there must be an 
intention, at the outset, for a loan to be substantially repaid within 12 months for it to meet 
the definition of HCSTC. And as Miss Ns loan term was 30 months, there was no intention 
for it to be substantially repaid within 12 months and therefore its not possible for it to have 
fallen within the definition of HCSTC even if the definition had been in place at the time the 
loan was provided.
In any event and most importantly, while 1 Plus 1 has referred to HCSTC in the context of 
the demographic of its customer base having a less than perfect credit score, the rules and 
regulations in place when 1 Plus 1 lent to Miss N required it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay this loan in a sustainable 
manner. So 1 Plus 1 had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss N, not just 
whether it was comfortable to accept the credit risk Miss N presented because it may have 
had a higher appetite for risk than other more mainstream lenders.
Ive considered what 1 Plus 1 has said it did in this context. 
The information 1 Plus 1 has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check on Miss N 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Miss N had already 
defaulted on a number of previous accounts. I also think that any credit check is more likely 
than not to have highlighted that Miss N was in a debt management plan at the time. And 
even though 1 Plus 1 may have been prepared to lend to customers with less than pristine 
credit ratings, I do think that Miss Ns debt management plan together with the number of 
defaulted accounts she had was an indication of sustained financial difficulties. 
Im also mindful that 1 Plus 1 appears to have accepted at face value that Miss N had a 
monthly disposable income of £600. This is despite the fact that this doesnt tally with 
someone with a credit file like Miss Ns. So, notwithstanding the fact that 1 Plus 1 might not 
have had any concerns about Miss Ns previous difficulties, I do think that what its checks 
are more likely than not to have shown did warrant further enquiries into Miss Ns 
circumstances. 
Miss N has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss N has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 1 Plus 1 mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from 1 Plus 1 showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Miss Ns financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Given 1 Plus 1 Loans has referred to non-discretionary expenditure, I do think its important 
for me to set out that 1 Plus 1 was required to establish whether Miss N could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
As this is the case, I do think that the information provided does show that Miss Ns existing 
financial position as well as her previous difficulties meant that she was always unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like 
than not have shown 1 Plus 1 that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss N. As 1 Plus 1 
provided Miss N with this guarantor loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss N ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan that she shouldnt 
have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss N lost out because of what 1 Plus 1 did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 1 Plus 1 needs to do to put things right for Miss N
Having thought about everything, 1 Plus 1 should put things right for Miss N by:refunding any interest, fees and charges that Miss N actually paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Miss N to the date of settlement;
if any remains, removing any adverse information it recorded on Miss Ns credit file 
as a result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1 Plus 1 to take off tax from this interest. 1 Plus 1 must 
give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ns complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited 
should put things right for Miss N in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman