The complaint
Mr B & Miss W say that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B & Miss W took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1993. They had PPI covering the 
mortgage, but say they weren't aware of it and wouldn't have agreed to it. They paid a 
monthly amount for the PPI, which just covered Mr B.
Nationwide says there's limited information available because the mortgage was taken 
out so long ago. It says it had some mortgages on sale at that time for which PPI was 
a condition of the mortgage - such as where the mortgage had a very high loan to value 
ratio. And that the mortgage offer would clearly have stated this. But it doesn't know if that 
was the case with Mr B and Miss W's mortgage. It also said it was likely that Mr B and Miss 
W chose the level of cover, given the PPI only covered Mr B.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasn't planning to uphold this complaint. Nationwide 
had nothing further to add and Mr B and Miss W didn't respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B & Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr B & Miss Ws complaint for the following reasons. 
There is limited information available from the time of sale. I think that's 
understandable given how long ago it was. There's no requirement for consumers or 
businesses to keep records that long. So, there's not enough evidence for me to say that 
Nationwide failed to tell Mr B & Miss W that they had a choice about buying the PPI, or that 
they didn't choose to take it.
I appreciate Mr B & Miss W say they didn't know they had the PPI. But I don't think I can 
reasonably uphold the complaint based solely on their recollection of something 
that happened so long ago. Especially as it is possible that the PPI was actually a condition 
of having the mortgage.
Mr B & Miss W say they wouldn't have taken a mortgage with Nationwide if the PPI was a 
condition of the mortgage. I don't know if it was a condition or not. So I don't think I can 
reasonably uphold the complaint based on this point.
DRN-1862250It's unclear if Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr B & Miss W. But it appears they had 
limited sick pay through their employment, and only a small amount of savings. The PPI 
would've paid the mortgage for up to 24 months if Mr B had been unable to work, so I think it 
was suitable for them. As such, Nationwide wouldn't have been wrong to recommend
it to them. 
I don't know how Nationwide explained the cost of the PPI. So, it's possible that it couldve 
explained it better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr B & Miss W would still have bought 
it. It doesn't appear to have been too expensive or poor value given the benefits provided.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr B 
& Miss W dont appear to have been affected by any of those things.
The regulator's rules about high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share don't 
apply to Mr B & Miss W's mortgage. So I don't think Nationwide needs to refund 
any commission and profit share that it might have received.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman