DRN-3538559
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain about their insurer, Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich). Their complaint 
is about Zurich saying they would accept a claim for damage to their property but then 
declining the claim on the grounds of there being no insured event.
Zurich use agents to administer the policy. Reference to Zurich includes these agents.
What happened
In December 2020 and then again in January 2021 Mrs L and Mr Ls property was subject to 
adverse weather, leading to rainwater entering the rear of the property through the roof. Mrs 
L and Mr L contacted Zurich to make a claim for the damage. Zurich appointed a surveyor 
(R) who inspected the damage the following month. R then wrote to Mrs L and Mr L to say 
their claim had been approved by Zurich and work to repair the damage would be scheduled 
once Mrs L and Mr L had paid the policy excess (£100), R then sent a schedule of works 
that only included rectification of the internal damage to the property (not any external 
damage that had caused the rainwater to come in).
Mrs L and Mr L then contacted Zurich to query the absence of external works but were told 
that the claim hadnt in fact been approved. But Mrs L and Mr L said the initial letter from R 
approving the claim, meant Zurich would have to accept the claim.
 
Unhappy at the claim being declined after being told it was approved, Mrs L and Mr L 
complained to Zurich. But they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said 
the damage had been caused by wind driving rain through the roof, highlighting an existing 
issue that allowed the rainwater to enter. As such, Zurich concluded that there was no 
insured event under the policy and confirmed their decision to decline the claim. However, 
Zurich accepted that Mrs L and Mr L had been told initially the claim had been accepted and 
therefore had been misled. In recognition of this loss of expectation, Zurich offered Mrs L 
and Mr L £300 compensation.
Mrs L and Mr L then complained to this service. They felt the cause of the damage hadnt 
been properly investigated (as storm damage) as Rs inspection had been external using a 
drone to take pictures of the outside of the property, including the roof as well as a brief 
visual inspection through the loft hatch. Mrs L and Mr L added that they were told by R that 
the only way to conclude on how the damage was caused was by a more extensive 
inspection of the affected external areas, including removing tiles. 
They also thought Zurich hadnt followed the FCA Insurance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (2.2.2) as the information provided to them wasnt clear or fair, and misleading. 
Mrs L and Mr L said theyd been affected financially by having to take time off work and the 
damage was getting worse after further adverse weather. They wanted Zurich to accept the 
claim, repair the damage caused and fix the problem of rainwater entering the property.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Zurich hadnt acted fairly. From 
photographs of the area affected by rainwater ingress, she wasnt satisfied (as Zurich said) 
there was age-related deterioration in part of the roof where rainwater had entered. Nor that 
Zurich had shown how rainwater had entered in other areas. She also concluded there were 
storm conditions around Mrs L and Mr Ls property at the time Mrs L and Mr L noticed the 
damage. Overall, she thought Zurich hadnt shown that their decline of the claim was valid, 
and they should assess the claim for both internal and external damage (as storm damage). 
In addition, she thought Zurich should pay Mrs L and Mr L £150 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience (and the length of time the matter had taken).
Zurich disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. While they accepted there were storm conditions at the time of the damage, 
they referred to their surveyors conclusion that the damage wasnt consistent with that from 
a one-off incident (such as a storm) and therefore there wasnt an insured event. They also 
referred to the surveyors view that there was age-related deterioration in part of the roof. 
In my findings I concluded there was evidence of deterioration of the concrete verge along 
the eaves and from general industry information this wasnt an uncommon problem (that 
happens gradually). Based on this, I was persuaded the rain and winds highlighted the 
issue. However, as other rooms affected werent by the verge, I concluded this indicated a 
wider issue at the rear of the property. As there was no visible damage to tiles across the 
roof at the rear, then in the absence of any other cause, I was persuaded by Rs view that 
the issue was with water ingress through the soffits (given the internal damage appeared to 
be at the same level as the soffits). Taking all these points into account, I concluded Zurich 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs L and Mr Ls claim.  
On the issue of Mrs L and Mr L being told initially their claim had been accepted (then told it 
hadnt) I agreed it was misleading and Mrs L and Mr L were understandably frustrated. But 
as I concluded Zurich acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs L and Mr Ls claim, I didnt 
think it affected the outcome. I thought Zurichs response, to apologise and offer £300 in 
compensation, was fair in the circumstances.
Because I disagreed with the investigators conclusions, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Zurich has acted fairly towards Mrs L and Mr L.
The two key issues in Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint are, firstly, that Zurich didnt properly 
investigate the cause of the damage (due to storm) and (consequently) acted unfairly in 
declining their claim. The second issue is that Zurich hadnt followed the FCA Handbook, 
specifically they didnt provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. Ive taken 
this to mean initially being told the claim had been accepted, but then being declined.
On the first issue, Mrs L and Mr L maintain that Zurich didnt properly investigate the cause 
of the damage (as storm damage) and therefore acted unfairly in declining their claim. They 
specifically refer to what they say they were told by R during the inspection that the only way 
to conclude on how the damage was caused was by a more extensive inspection of the 
affected external areas, including removing tiles. For their part, Zurich maintain that Rs 
report supports their decision to decline the claim on the grounds that there wasnt an 
insured event and the damage was due to the rain and winds highlighting existing issues 
(such as the age-related deterioration of part of the roof).Ive considered both views (including those of R) together with the associated evidence and 
reports, including the available photographs. As the cause of the damage is potentially 
storm-related, then Ive considered the three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at the information about the weather conditions around the 
date of the incident, from the weather service we use. It indicates a dry1 storm on the date 
Mrs L and Mr L noticed the damage (they also mention adverse weather in the previous 
month). Also, when responding to our investigators view, Zurich said that they were not 
disputing a storm occurred. But based on Rs view the damage wasnt consistent with - or 
caused by - a storm. Which are the second and third questions we consider. 
Looking at these two questions, Ive looked closely at Rs report and additional views, 
including the photographs taken during the inspection. Rs view is that there is age-related 
deterioration of the concrete verge at the edge of the roof, as shown by the photographs, 
which would account for some of the rain ingress into one of the affected bedrooms. But the 
report also notes the ingress affects two other rooms at the rear of the property, which R 
believes would appear to be the result of water ingress through the soffits (given that the 
damage in the rooms is at the level of the soffits). Rs report also notes  the roof tiles at the 
rear of the property are intact and show no damage  although the photographs would 
appear to show a couple of  tiles at the edge of the roof by the eaves are slightly misaligned 
(though this may be the result of the failure of the concrete verge, or the application of 
temporary protectors on part of the eaves). The report also notes no obvious evidence of 
ingress in the loft.
Having considered these points carefully, Im persuaded that there is clear deterioration of 
the concrete verge along the eaves and Im aware from general industry information this isnt 
an uncommon problem (and that it happens gradually). Taking these points together Im 
persuaded that the rain and winds highlighted the issue (the photographs also show 
temporary protectors on part of the eaves). However, the other rooms affected arent 
adjacent to the verge, indicating a wider issue at the rear of the property. As theres no 
visible damage to tiles across the roof at the rear, then In the absence of any other cause, 
Im persuaded by Rs view that the issue is with water ingress through the soffits (given the 
internal damage appears to be at the same level as the soffits).
 
Ive also considered Mrs L and Mr Ls point about being told (by R) the only way to conclude 
on how the damage was caused was by a more extensive inspection of the affected areas, 
including removing tiles. While I have no reason to doubt what Mrs L and Mr L have said, 
given my conclusions above then I think theres sufficient evidence to conclude that the 
storm conditions were, on the balance of probabilities, the cause (or predominant cause) of 
the damage.
Taking all these points into account, then Ive concluded Zurich acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining Mrs L and Mr Ls claim.
  
On the second issue, Rs report on the damage to the property clearly states that the 
damage isnt considered to be the result of a one-off event (such as a storm) and that the 
rainfall and high winds highlighted an existing issue (the report refers to age-related 
deterioration in part of the roof). However, Rs letter to Mrs L and Mr L says their claim had 
1 A dry storm is one where the wind level would meet the definition of a storm, but not the level of rainfall.been approved by Zurich (subject to payment of the policy excess). Its not clear why the 
letter states the claim has been approved when Rs report indicates there wasnt event 
related damage and the cause of damage was recorded as wear and tear. 
For their part, Zurich apologise in their final response for Rs letter being misleading and the 
incorrect impression that the claim had been approved. Given the sequence of events 
above, I agree it was misleading and Mrs L and Mr L were understandably frustrated at 
being told their claim was being accepted, only to be then declined. But as Ive concluded 
Zurich acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs L and Mr Ls claim, I dont think it affects 
the outcome. But it clearly raised Mr L and Mrs ls expectations, only for them not to be met. 
Ive considered Zurichs response, to apologise and offer £300 in compensation. I think thats 
fair in the circumstances for that element of Mrs Ls and Mr Ls complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls 
complaint in part. I intend to require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Pay Mrs L and Mr L £300 in compensation for giving the misleading impression 
their claim was approved, only for it to then be declined.
Mrs L and Mr L responded with several points and provided additional information. Firstly, 
they didnt think the water entered their property through the soffits (as Rs report 
suggested). In support of their view, they referred to the method of construction of the 
property, which they thought made it impossible for the water ingress to be through the 
soffits. They also referred to the views of third parties, including roofing contractors. 
Secondly, they said the water ingress could have occurred through the storm conditions 
lifting a row of tiles and causing the row to slip, meaning they were no longer bonded (so 
allowing water between them). 
Thirdly, they said they had the property re-rendered and all four verges replaced with a 
PVCU system. But this hadnt prevented water ingress, which they said supported their view 
the problem wasnt related to the soffits or the verges.
Zurich responded to note the provisional decision supporting their decision to decline the 
claim. They also asked for clarification of whether the provisional decision for them to pay 
£300 meant they were being asked to pay an additional £300 (given their final response to 
Mrs L and Mr L had offered them £300 for loss of expectation and misunderstanding).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Zurich have acted fairly towards Mrs L and Mr L.
Taking Zurichs response first, I can confirm that my provisional decision was that Zurich 
should pay £300 in compensation for giving the misleading impression that their claim was 
approved, only for it to then be declined. I didnt intend this to mean Zurich should pay an 
additional £300 on top of the £300 already offered (but not paid before Mrs L and Mr L 
complained to this service).On the points raised by Mrs L and Mr L, Id want to reassure them Ive considered all the 
points theyve raised and looked carefully at the additional photographs, diagram and other 
information. Ive concentrated on the key points theyve made.
 
Taking the second point first, they say a likely explanation of the water ingress is the winds 
lifting a row of tiles, causing them to slip so theyre no longer bonded and let water in. 
However, they havent provided clear evidence to support this possibility. Photographs of the 
roof (both at the time of the incident and more recently) dont show any visible signs of tile 
slippage or other gaps that would indicate obvious routes through which water could enter. If 
this were the case, Id have expected Mrs L and Mr L to engage a roofing specialist to 
examine the roof and confirm whether this is the case. In the absence of any independent, 
direct evidence to support this view (as well as Rs original observation there wasnt any 
obvious sign of ingress in the loft) Im not persuaded this explains the water ingress. Its also 
not obviously consistent with the areas damaged in the original incident. 
On the third point, I can see from the photographs Mrs L and Mr L have had the verges on 
the roof edges replaced as theyve described. They dont say why theyve had this carried 
out, although it would be consistent with either the original verges having deteriorated (as I 
observed in my provisional decision) or their being one of the sources of water ingress. Mrs 
L and Mr L say the replacement verges havent prevented water ingress, which they say 
supports their view the problem isnt related to the soffits or the verges. If it is the case the 
replacement verges havent prevented further water ingress, it may suggest the original 
verges werent an issue (or not the only issue).
 
But, equally, the water ingress wasnt just in those areas of the property next to the verges  
in Rs view the verges would account for some of the rain ingress into one of the affected 
bedrooms. But Rs report also notes the ingress affected two other rooms at the rear of the 
property, which they believed would appear to be the result of water ingress through the 
soffits (given that the damage in the rooms is at the level of the soffits). Both Rs view, and 
Mrs L and Mr Ls view the water ingress could be the result of tiles lifting and slipping, 
indicate that replacing the verges wouldnt prevent water ingress (or some of it). So, I dont 
think the verges having been replaced is relevant to deciding what, on balance, is most likely 
to have caused the water ingress.
That leaves the first point raised by Mrs L and Mr L, that the method of construction means 
the soffits cant have been the source of the ingress. I appreciate what theyve said, but Im 
not persuaded by their alternative explanation (of tiles lifting and slipping). That view also 
doesnt explain the observation by R that the damage in the rooms is at the level of the 
soffits, in two rooms at the rear of the property.
Taking these points together, Im not persuaded they change the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision, so my final decision is the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint in 
part. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to:
Pay Mrs L and Mr L £300 in compensation for giving the misleading impression 
that their claim was approved, only for it to then be declined.
Zurich Insurance PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs L and Mr L accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman