DRN-1473589
The complaint
Miss R complains about issues she's experienced with a  car supplied with finance from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited ("MBFS").
What happened
In October 2018 Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a  contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. At the point of supply the car was 5 months old and had covered 
2,043 miles.
In February 2019 Miss R experienced issues with the lights not working and the engine 
failing to start. A motor rescue organisation attended and diagnosed faults relating to the 
battery sensor, the stop/start, the light switch and the starter relay.  
The car was returned to the supplying dealer who replaced the battery. For the 3 days the 
dealership took to complete the repairs, Miss R was left without a car.
In April 2019 Miss R experienced further issues with the stop/start and the car not 
accelerating properly whilst pulling away. The car was returned to the supplying dealer who 
diagnosed a loose starter live cable.
Miss R continued to experience issues with the stop./start and the accelerator. She also had 
problems with the sat nav system. The car went in for a service in May 2019. The dealership 
couldn't find any faults with the sat nav but carried out a software update.
In June 2019 Miss R returned the car to the dealership again with problems affecting 
the stop/start and the sat nav. The dealership diagnosed an acceleration problem but said 
the issue was beyond its knowledge and technology and referred the issue to the 
international team to resolve. This took over a month following which the wiring loom was 
replaced.
In September 2019 the car was returned to the dealership with stop/start faults, accelerator 
faults and a noise from the engine. The dealership returned the car 3 weeks later but the 
issues continued and the car was returned to the dealership again in November 2019. The 
dealership replaced the engine mounts which it said were noisier than expected when 
the car was starting up and pulling away.
Miss R complained to MBFS and asked to reject the car. In its final response MBFS said it 
was allowed one opportunity to repair each different fault and that there were insufficient 
grounds for rejection.
Miss R wasn't happy with the response and complained to this service. She said the car has 
been back to the dealership on 9 separate occasions, and she's been without it for a total of 
66 days.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought there were obvious faults with the car in 
the first 6 months and said MBFS had had several opportunities to put things right. The investigator recommended rejection of the car and said MBFS should refund 20% of 
payments made by Miss R since February 2019.
MBFS didn't agree with the level of refund and felt this should only apply at a  rate of 15% for 
the period when faults had been reported. It offered to refund 15% of payment  from 
February 2019 to November 2019 and 5% thereafter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to uphold Miss R's complaint and ask MBFS to accept a rejection of the car. I'll 
explain why.
Because MBFS has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, there's an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all the relevant circumstances 
such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I'd expect 
a new (or nearly new) car such as that supplied to Miss R to be of a very high standard and 
to remain free from minor defects for a reasonable period.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months there's a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair is 
unsuccessful the consumer can reject the car.
Miss R first experienced problems with the car in February 2019, so within the first 6 months. 
The issues included a fault with the stop/start system. I can see that the dealership carried 
out repairs in February 2019 but Miss R experienced the same fault in April 2019 and 
despite further repair attempts this fault continued throughout the year.
MBFS has said it is allowed one opportunity to repair each fault. I don't agree that this is a 
correct interpretation of the relevant legislation but in any event, there have been several 
attempts to repair the same fault here. I wouldn't expect a nearly new car with very low 
mileage to develop faults of the type experienced by Miss R within only 4 months. The 
nature of the faults suggest that the car isn't durable, and therefore not of 
satisfactory quality. I'm persuaded that the attempt at repair was unsuccessful and that Miss 
R should be allowed to reject the car.
I can see that the car has been returned to the dealership for repairs on multiple occasions 
and that Miss R has been without the use of her car for over 2 months in total. She's been 
provided with a courtesy car from some - but not all - of this time. Miss R has only covered 
3000 miles in the car since she's had it which suggests she's only had limited use. I'm 
persuaded that even when she's had use of the car, it's been impaired use due to the 
problems she's had with the sat nav and the engine noise.
I've taken into account what MBFS has said about the level of refund of payments. On 
balance, I think 20% is fair and reasonable and that this should apply from February 2019 to 
date because I haven't been persuaded that all the issues have been resolved. MBFS has 
said that the car hasn't been returned to the dealership since November 2019 but Miss 
R has told this service that the issue have continued. I've no reason to doubt Miss R's 
testimony given the history of repeated faults and failed repair attempts.Putting things right
To put things right, MBFS must allow Miss R to reject the car and refund a percentage of her 
monthly payments to reflect impaired use and inconvenience. It should also pay 
compensation for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss R 
Refund any deposit paid together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund 20% of payments made since February 2019 together with 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove the agreement from Miss R's credit file
Pay compensation of £250 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman