DRN-3839109
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an error when it redeemed their 
residential mortgage instead of their buy to let mortgage. Mr N says the buy to let mortgage 
is more expensive and they want Barclays to compensate them for the additional cost.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had two mortgages with Barclays: a residential mortgage secured on their 
home and a buy to let mortgage secured on their rental property. They intended to re-finance 
the buy to let mortgage in 2017. However, the residential mortgage was redeemed instead. 
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt made an error. It redeemed the mortgage account in 
accordance with the information received from the solicitor acting for Mr and Mrs Ns new 
lender. Barclays offered £200 for the time taken to investigate the complaint and the 
investigator said this was fair.
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. Mr N said they had no intention of redeeming their residential 
mortgage. He said while there was an error on the document submitted to Barclays it was 
sent to the buy to let team and Barclays ought to have spotted the error. 
Mr N said Barclays had breached data law when it released information related to his 
residential mortgage to a third party without his consent. He said hes been left with two 
mortgages on his buy to let property and will have difficulty re-financing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
What happened?
Mr and Mrs N had a residential mortgage and a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. They 
decided to re-finance the buy to let mortgage. In early 2017 they accepted an offer for a buy 
to let mortgage from another lender. 
Mr N provided a letter from the solicitor acting for the new lender to Barclays asking for a 
redemption statement. Its not clear if the solicitor was also acting for Mr and Mrs N, but this 
doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. The letter used the buy to let property address 
but the account number was stated as not known. Theres nothing in the records provided 
by Barclays to evidence it receiving this letter. 
The first contact relating to the redemption in Barclays records was in mid-February 2017, 
when the new lenders solicitor called and asked for a redemption statement. This was 
recorded on the residential mortgage account.
Barclays issued a redemption statement in mid-February 2017. This referred to the 
residential mortgage account numbers and the residential property address.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs N on the same day saying their conveyancer had asked for a 
final redemption statement. This letter also referred to the residential mortgage account 
numbers and the residential property address.
The solicitor sent a letter to Barclays after the redemption monies were sent. This used the 
correct property address and title number (for the buy to let property) but the account 
number for the residential mortgage.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs N in early March 2017 confirming the mortgage was repaid 
and the charge was released from the title. The letter referred to the residential mortgage 
account numbers, the residential property address and the title number for the residential 
property. Barclays sent a refund for a small overpayment (of about £1,100) to Mr and Mrs N.
In late March 2017 Barclays received a letter from the new lenders solicitor asking it to 
release its charge, quoting the title number which related to the buy to let property. Barclays 
confirmed the charge had been released, but referred to the residential property. 
The new lenders solicitor called Barclays in May 2017 and was told the buy to let mortgage 
had an outstanding balance and the charge wouldnt be released. At this point the problem 
became apparent, that the residential mortgage account had been redeemed rather than the 
buy to let mortgage. This left Mr and Mrs N in a difficult position, with two buy to let 
mortgages on the rental property. 
Did Barclays make an error that led to the wrong mortgage being redeemed?
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that the cause of the wrong mortgage account 
being redeemed was an error by Barclays. 
It seems the problem came about due to the new lenders solicitor using the wrong mortgage 
account number. Theres no evidence that this was due to an error by Barclays.
Mr N says Barclays should have spotted the error. I understand his point. The letters from 
the new lenders solicitor referred to the address of the buy to let property and this didnt 
match with the residential mortgage account number. Mr N says the solicitor addressed 
communications to the buy to let team.
In fairness, I need to take into account that Barclays didnt know what Mr and Mrs N wanted 
to do. Barclays wouldnt have known if Mr and Mrs N intended to repay or re-finance the 
residential mortgage or the buy to let mortgage  or indeed both. It could only act on the 
information it was given.
Had Barclays noticed the mis-match between the mortgage account number and the 
property address in the solicitors correspondence and queried this matters might have been 
different. Equally though, the redemption statement and Barclays letters to Mr and Mrs N 
referred to the residential property address and the residential mortgage account numbers. 
This could have alerted Mr and Mrs N to the problem.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Barclays was responsible for the initial error 
(the solicitor using the residential mortgage account numbers). And, on balance, I think Mr 
and Mrs N were better placed than Barclays to identify the problem when the redemption 
statement and accompanying letters were sent out referring to the residential property and 
the residential mortgage account. Did Barclays respond fairly when the problem came to light?
Mr and Mrs N (and the new lender) were left with a problem. Mr and Mrs N had taken out a 
new buy to let mortgage. The lender expected to register a first charge on the buy to let 
property, and its likely this is a term of the mortgage contract. Mr N says due to his age, he 
cant now take out a residential mortgage to repay one of the buy to let mortgages.
Mr N says the lenders solicitors advised him to ask Barclays to put the mortgage charge 
back on their residential property or ask it to postpone its charge on the rental property (so 
that it would rank as a second charge, behind the new lenders first charge). Mr N told the 
solicitor his preference was for Barclays to postpone its charge on the rental property. 
Mr N says he contacted Barclays asking it to help sort out the matter, and it refused. He 
hasnt been able to provide evidence of this contact. Mr N says Barclays should be able to 
provide proof. I asked Barclays and it said it had no record of Mr and Mrs N contacting it 
about the wrong mortgage being redeemed, and this is supported by its records. The 
account records provided by Barclays show Mr N contacted it in October 2017 asking about 
the balance, the interest rate and for a redemption statement. He contacted it again in mid-
2019 asking about the deed of postponement and for the balance. Mr N gave Barclays 
authority to deal with the new lenders solicitors in mid-2019. 
The new lenders solicitors contacted Barclays during 2017 and later asking it to agree to a 
deed of postponement in relation to its charge on the rental property. 
Barclays didnt agree to remove its charge or enter into the deed of postponement. I cant 
see that there was anything requiring it to do so. The residential mortgage had been repaid. 
Barclays had a first charge on the rental property, securing its buy to let mortgage loan. 
Barclays was under no obligation to postpone its charge so that another lender could have a 
first-ranking security on the rental property. 
I dont know what help, if any, Barclays would have been able to offer if Mr and Mrs N had 
contacted it in 2017, as soon as the problem came to light. As I say, it wasnt under any 
obligation to agree to postpone its charge. I dont know if Barclays would have been able, in 
effect, to re-instate the residential mortgage or offer Mr and Mrs N a new residential 
mortgage. But in any case, theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs N asked it to do so. I dont 
think its fair to say that Barclays is responsible for the problem not being sorted out. I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs N for 
the higher rate of interest they paid on the buy to let mortgage. 
Mr N says Barclays shouldnt have disclosed information about the residential mortgage to a 
third party (presumably he means the new lenders solicitors), and this was a breach of its 
duty to keep his data private. Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs N in February 2017 saying it had 
been contacted by their conveyancer. The account number and property address referred to 
in the letter were for the residential mortgage. So Mr and Mrs N were made aware that 
Barclays was dealing with the solicitor in relation to the residential mortgage account. I dont 
think Barclays could fairly have known this wasnt what Mr and Mrs N wanted. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it made an error or treated Mr and Mrs N unfairly when it 
responded to the new lenders solicitor. 
Barclays offered £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs N for the time taken to respond to their 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. This means I cant look into how a 
complaint was dealt with, unless it affected the underlying problem being sorted out (which 
wasnt the case here). I leave it to Mr and Mrs N to decide whether to accept the £200 
offered by Barclays.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman