DRN-3354334
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr S acquired a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. Mr S experienced issues with the car. Repairs were attempted but the issues 
continued. Mr S asked to reject the car. Moneybarn said it wasnt able to do anything, so Mr 
S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that because 
the attempts at repair had been unsuccessful, Mr S should be allowed to reject the car. The 
investigator said that because Mr S had only made 3 payments under the agreement but 
had continued to use the car, neither the arrears not the outstanding balance under the 
agreement should be written off. The investigator said Mr S should pay 50% of the payments 
he should have made under the agreement. Moneybarn agreed but Mr S didnt. He said that 
he wasnt prepared to pay anything.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said there was no dispute that a rejection of the car 
was justified. I said that where a car is rejected, Id expect a business to refund any deposit 
paid and to refund monthly payments less a deduction for usage. I explained that in this case 
Mr S had only made 3 payments under the agreement, which meant there were significant 
arrears. I also explained that Mr S had continued to use the car despite the issues and had 
covered significant mileage.
I said that I thought Mr S should have been allowed to reject the car when it became clear 
that the repairs hadnt been successful.  I thought Moneybarn should waive arrears from this 
point onwards  8 October 2020, but that any arrears accrued up to and including that date 
should be paid by Mr S.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to 
advance.
Moneybarn said it didnt think consideration had been given to the amount of mileage Mr S 
had covered in the car. it said it appreciated that Mr S should have been allowed to reject the 
car in October 2020 but felt that he should be liable for the usage hed had since then, given 
the significant mileage covered.
Mr S said he didnt agree that he should have to pay anything to Moneybarn. He said he only 
had the car now because Moneybarn refused to allow him to reject it in October 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what both parties have said. I remain of the view that Moneybarn 
should have allowed Mr S to reject the car in October 2020 when the repairs werent 
successful. Prior to that, Mr S was able to use the car and was responsible for making 
payments under the agreement, so he should be liable to pay all arrears which accrued up 
until that point.
I agree that Mr S has covered significant mileage since then. Hes explained that he had no 
choice but to keep using the car and I find this explanation plausible. But I have to take into 
account that he hasnt made any monthly payments at all during this time, even though hes 
been able to use the car.  So, I think it would be fair to allow a deduction for usage in these 
circumstances. Having thought about this further, my view has changed. Im now of the view 
that Mr S should pay 50% of the arrears which have accrued from 8 October 2020 onwards 
to reflect his use of the car.
Putting things right
To put things right, Moneybarn No 1 Limited must:
End the agreement
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund any deposit paid by Mr S
Refund the cost of the report (£192)
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Write off 50% of all arrears which accrued from 8 October 2020 onwards
Set up an agreement for Mr S to pay all arrears which accrued up to and including 8 October 
2020, and for 50% of the arrears which accrued since 8 October 2020.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must take the steps 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman