DRN-2161975
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as B complains that Metro Bank PLC misinformed it about a 
Fixed Term Deposit Account.
Mr P is Bs director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
B held a Business Fixed Term Deposit Account with Metro Bank. It was opened in 2018, with 
a term of two years that ran until August 2020.
Mr P says that Metro Bank led him to believe that the limit of protection afforded under the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) was £150,000, when it was actually 
only £75,000 (which was subsequently raised to £85,000). On discovering the error, and with 
concerns over the security of his deposit, Mr P wanted Metro Bank to allow him to break the 
deposit and transfer some of the funds elsewhere. He says that the bank agreed to do this, 
and provided him with the necessary paperwork  but then changed its mind and refused. 
In response to Mr Ps concerns, Metro Bank apologised that he wasnt given the correct 
information initially. But it declined his request to break the deposit  which it said wasnt 
permitted under the terms and conditions of the account. And it says that it only gave Mr P 
the paperwork required to transfer funds in case it was able to proceed  which, ultimately, it 
wasnt.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Mr P had been misinformed about 
the FSCS protection. She thought that Metro Bank should pay him £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. But she didnt think Metro Bank shouldve agreed to break the 
deposit, which had continued to run in line with the terms and conditions of the account (and 
which by this time, had matured).
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He said hed spent two days arranging a new 
account elsewhere as he thought he could transfer the funds. So for the stress and 
inconvenience hed been caused, he thought Metro Bank should pay him £250 
compensation. Metro Bank didnt respond to our investigators view. 
So with no resolution to the complaint, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear to me whether Metro Bank accepts that it misinformed Mr P about the level of 
FSCS protection that applied to Bs account. Initially, Bs relationship manager did accept 
this and apologised to him. But in its submission to us, the bank said it thought that B had 
been well aware of the applicable limit  pointing out that it had provided information when 
the account opened which showed the correct amount. 
Theres no dispute that the documentation contains the right limit. The point here is that Mr P 
says he specifically queried this, and was verbally advised that the £75,000 limit applied to 
both him and his wife (as she was also a shareholder in B)  giving B total coverage of 
£150,000. I see no reason to dispute Mr Ps recollection, particularly given that the 
relationship manager has already accepted it to be accurate. So I think its most likely that he 
was misinformed.
This discrepancy only seems to have been discovered some time later, when Mr P raised 
concerns about the banks performance following some adverse media coverage. And off 
the back of this, Mr P wanted to break the deposit and move some of the funds elsewhere. 
The account has since matured, so I appreciate this is no longer a concern. 
But Ive still thought about whether Metro Bank acted fairly at the time. And I think it did. I 
dont think the incorrect information about the FSCS limit was sufficient grounds to break the 
deposit, which wasnt permitted under the terms and conditions of the account. In the event, 
thankfully, B hasnt had to utilise the FSCS protection anyway. So  albeit with the benefit of 
hindsight  the level of cover hasnt made a material difference to B anyway. So I dont think 
theres been any financial loss to B.
I appreciate this issue may have caused Mr P some concern, but I cant compensate him for 
any personal distress he suffered  the complainant here is the company, so under our rules 
I can only award compensation for the impact on B. And companies cant suffer distress. But 
they can be put to inconvenience. 
In that respect, this matter did need to be cleared up  so I think B was put to some 
avoidable trouble. But it seems to have been quite minimal. I appreciate Mr P ended up 
having a number of conversations with Metro Bank about the account, but this was as much 
driven by his request to break the deposit in light of the wider concerns about the bank, than 
about the FSCS limit specifically. It seems that the misinformation was corrected swiftly, and 
so like our investigator I think it would be fair for Metro Bank to pay B £50 for the relatively 
minor inconvenience that was caused.
Mr P also says that Metro Bank said it would allow him to transfer funds out of the account 
and gave him the appropriate paperwork to do so, before changing its mind. And he says 
that in the interim, he set up an account elsewhere. The relationship managers recollection 
is different. While accepting the forms were given, they say this was with the caveat that the 
decision was still to be made  this way, Mr P had the paperwork ready to use if the bank 
were to agree. They recall explaining to Mr P that it was not likely that the deposit could be 
broken, but that a decision would be confirmed to him shortly. 
Theres no way for me to know exactly what was said, so Ive had to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened based on the available evidence. Weighing up what both sides 
have said, I dont think its likely that the relationship manager wouldve given any strong 
assurances to Mr P when not in a position to do so. It seems to me that the matter needed 
further referral, which duly happened (with Mr P later being advised of the decision by the 
area manager). 
So it seems most likely to me that this is how things were presented to Mr P at the time. I 
can see how there may have been some confusion, and its regrettable that this seems to 
have put B to some further trouble. But I dont think this was down to an error on Metro 
Banks part  so I dont think any further compensation is warranted.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to pay B compensation of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman