DRN-4253479
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund her the amount she lost as 
the result of a scam.
Miss C is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Miss C 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Miss C was looking to make an investment when she came across the website 
Uni-co.org offering what appeared to be a legitimate professional trading platform. Before 
signing up to the platform Miss C carried out an online search and was unable to find any 
negative reviews. 
After signing up to the platform Miss C received an email from the scammer (X) who 
explained how the investment worked. X seemed very professional and told Miss C she 
would have to open a Binance account to fund the investment.
On Xs instruction Miss C started to make payments into the investment. 
After seeing her investment grow Miss C looked to make a withdrawal from her investment 
account. X told Miss C she would first need to make a tax payment, and it provided 
legitimate looking documentation to support this request for payment. Miss C made the 
payment as requested but still was unable to withdraw any funds.
X asked Miss C to make yet more payments and it was at this stage that she realised she 
had fallen victim to a scam.
Miss C made the following payments into the scam:
Date Payee Payment Method Amount
1 June 2022 Named individual Transfer £1,000
3 June 2022 Named individual Transfer £4,678
6 June 2022 Binance Debit Card £1,000
6 June 2022 Binance Debit Card £2,000
7 June 2022 Binance Debit Card £4,000
9 June 2022 Binance Debit Card £4,300
10 June 2022 Binance Debit Card £3,700
Our Investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss C 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Miss C has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence 
provided by both Miss C and Revolut sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether 
Revolut should refund the money Miss C lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Miss C made
Miss C made payments into the scam via transfer and debit card. When payments are made 
by card the only recovery option Revolut has is to request a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss C was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Miss C 
didnt make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid a separate cryptocurrency 
exchange (Binance). This is important because Revolut was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchant she paid (Binance), not another party.
The service provided by Binance would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Miss Cs payments. Therefore, Binance provided the service that was requested.
The fact that the funds were later transferred elsewhere  to X  doesnt give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim against the merchant Miss C paid. As Binance provided the requested 
service to Miss C any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
When a payment is made by transfer Revolut has limited recovery options available to it. I 
can see that Revolut did not try to recover the payments Miss C made by trying to contact 
the receiving bank. But I dont think this was unreasonable. Miss C contacted Revolut about 
the scam sometime after making the payments and I think its most likely the funds had been 
moved on within this time.
So, I think its unlikely Revolut would have been able to recover any of the funds Miss C lost 
to the scam.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Miss C made? 
It has been accepted that Miss C authorised the payments that were made from her account 
with Revolut, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Miss C is 
responsible.
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
and questioned Miss C about the payments she was making. And if it had questioned Miss 
C, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.Miss C made two transfers to an individual at the beginning of the scam. I dont think these 
payments were of a significant enough value to have triggered Revoluts fraud prevention 
systems prompting it to step in.  
The following week Miss C made five further payments using her debit card to the 
cryptocurrency exchange Binance. These payments were also not for significant values that 
I would expect to have been picked up by Revoluts fraud prevention systems, and it would 
not be reasonable for me to suggest that Revolut should intervene in every payment its 
customer makes  particularly payments that are to legitimate businesses (as was the case 
here). 
The Revolut account Miss C was making the payments from was a relatively new account 
with little history to compare the operating of the account with. So, these payments would not 
have been considered out of line with the normal operating of the account and been a 
concern to it. 
When considering the payments in dispute here, I dont think when taken individually or 
collectively, Revolut would have had reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam was 
taking place. So, I dont think Revolut missed an opportunity to prevent the scam and it is not 
responsible for Miss Cs loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman