DRN-2972039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the issues theyve had in accessing, using, and trading on 
Barclays Bank UK Plcs trading platform. They say since their trading account migrated to 
the Smart Investor platform, they have always had access issues and that for around two 
years Barclays repeatedly gave them wrong information when trying to resolve this issue. As 
a result, not only have they been inconvenienced but theyve missed trading opportunities.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A were trying to access their investment account after it had been migrated from 
Barclays previous platform to its new Smart Investor platform. As they were having issues 
logging in, they phoned Barclays for help on 20 December 2018. 
Barclays explained that it didnt have enough information about Mr A for him to be able to 
pass its security checks. Barclays suggested that it either send him a form to complete to 
add some details to his account or that he take identification into a Barclays branch to be 
verified and added to his account that way. Mr A asked for Barclays to send him the form to 
complete.
As Mrs A was able to pass security given the details on her profile were up to date, she was 
able to view the account. As she was unfamiliar with the new interface of Smart Investor, 
Barclays talked her through how to navigate the account. During this, Mrs A was prompted 
with a notification that due to a lack of nationality information, features she was trying to 
access were blocked.  Barclays thought that as Mrs As details were up to date, it would be 
Mr As nationality information which needed updating. And, as that could only be done online 
or over the phone, he would firstly need to provide the information needed to pass the 
security checks.
Mr and Mrs A didnt received the form to complete, so on 17 January 2019 they called 
Barclays back. In this call Barclays again suspected there was nationality information 
missing from the account. It looked, but couldnt see what the problem was due to not being 
able to pass security for Mr As profile given the missing information. Following this Barclays 
suggested it would be easier to go into a branch to verify Mr As identity. Mr A went to a 
branch on 31 January 2019 to update his identity information. He didnt know this at the time, 
but his query wasnt completed and the problem remained.  
Over a year later on 12 March 2020, Mr and Mrs A called Barclays again for access to the 
account as theyd lost their membership number and passwords. Though Barclays could 
help Mrs A with her new passwords, the couple were again told that there wasnt enough 
information about Mr A to pass security so, Mr A was advised to go back to a branch. 
Barclays said it would email the branch to let them know to expect Mr and Mrs A and what 
needed to be done for them. Mr and Mrs A attended the branch the next day, but they 
werent expecting them despite what Barclays told Mr and Mrs A. Despite this, the branch 
was able to help them and added Mr As details to his profile.
Mr and Mrs A decided to transfer their portfolio to another provider. Mrs A called Barclays on 
1 May 2020 as shed had a notification about outstanding fees. In the course of this 
conversation, Barclays identified that it still didnt have Mr As nationality information it 
needed. Barclays explained that as Mr A is an Italian national, he needed to share his Italian 
tax code. Mr A wasnt sure what this was, but given he had a UK national insurance number, 
Barclays was able to accept that instead. 
Unhappy with the service theyd received from Barclays since the migration to Smart 
Investor, Mr and Mrs A made a complaint. Barclays initially offered them £25 for the 
inconvenience caused by not telling them about the need for Mr As tax identifier earlier. 
Upon wider review, Barclays recognised other shortcomings and increased their offer to 
£225. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt think this fairly resolved their complaint and so asked our service to look 
into it further. One of our investigators looked into what happened but thought that the offer 
Barclays had already made was fair. They thought this as the restrictions were in place due 
to changes in regulation and that trades Mr and Mrs A wanted to make couldve been carried 
out by phone to mitigate the lack of access to the online trading facility.
Mr and Mrs A responded to our investigator insisting they had no access to trading at all, 
and that this was caused by the restrictions Barclays had placed on Mr As profile. Our 
investigator considered their concerns, but didnt agree that Barclays needed to do anything 
more. As Mr and Mrs A still didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there were two problems with Mr and Mrs As account following the migration to 
Smart Investor:
Firstly, the account had originally been set up with Mrs A as the primary name  this 
meant Barclays held sufficient information about her, but not about Mr A, and was 
why it needed to check his identity. 
Secondly, that Mr A hadnt updated his nationality information  this was because the 
system didnt prompt him to do this ahead of the first issue being resolved  this 
caused issues with access and trading permission. 
Unfortunately, neither of these issues  nor how they were interlinked to some degree  
were clear to Mr and Mrs A at the time so I can understand the frustration this will have 
caused. Below I have considered the issues in the order they unfolded. 
Barclays placed a nationality restriction on Mr and Mrs As joint account when new regulation 
 Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID II  in January 2018 required firms to 
evidence and record the nationality of all their customers. As this was a regulatory change 
imposed on Barclays, it isnt something wed say was unreasonable for it to require. Despite 
this, Barclays would still be expected to provide clear information about what was required, 
how to remove the restriction and to avoid unnecessary delays in doing so.
In late 2017, Barclays sent letters to all of its customers to explain that this new regulation 
would be coming into effect on 3 January 2018. One of the changes the letter mentioned 
was that customers would need to confirm their nationality and national identifier  such as a 
UK National Insurance Number. Barclays hasnt been able to show us the copy of the letter 
sent to Mr and Mrs A specifically, but we have seen the template letter and I think it is likely 
they wouldve received it as it was sent to all customers. This letter set out that if this 
information wasnt provided in time then a number of services for Mr and Mrs A would 
become restricted.Mrs A submitted her nationality as British and provided her UK National Insurance Number 
on 16 January 2018 so her profile was ready for the changes. Mr A however wasnt able to 
complete his information due to the first issue I identified above, so his nationality remained 
unrecorded. 
To resolve this first issue, Mr A needed to share personal information so that Barclays could 
update his profile. The information appears to have been missing given how the account was 
originally set up in 2007, with Mrs A being the primary contact on the account and all of her 
details being noted, rather than both of their details. But the move to Smart Investor saw 
profiles for both Mrs A and Mr A being set up in their own right.
I appreciate that this might not have been clear at the time, but I understand why Barclays, 
for security reasons, needed the details to be provided either by a returned form or through 
checks in branch. Barclays needed this information under rules around knowing who its 
customers are, as well as practically being able to ask Mr A questions when accessing his 
account over the phone to verify and protect his account. 
From the information available, Barclays first identified issues with Mr As missing 
information during the call on 20 December 2018. Mr A gave Barclays the information it 
needed in branch on 31 January 2019. From this point, Barclays ought to have had enough 
to complete Mr As profile  this would have led to the next step I mentioned about the 
nationality check. But the issue was that the branch staff didnt do what was required. This 
wasnt realised until over a year later when Mr A was asked to go into branch in March 2020 
 it was only at this point that Mr As profile was complete. Unfortunately, it was only once 
Mr As profile was complete that Barclays systems would take the next step in the process 
and identify whether or not further information was required about his nationality and to 
provide an identifier for this, so this further issue wasnt known to him at that point. 
The error made in branch in January 2019 clearly led to inconvenience for Mr A. But while 
the delay thereafter seems considerable  being over a year  I dont think Barclays ought to 
be entirely responsible for the full period of delay. Thats because it doesnt appear the 
couple got in touch with Barclays to report further issues during this time, so there wasnt 
any material inconvenience caused for the majority of that time. What I instead see to be the 
inconvenience was for Mr A to have to go to a branch yet again, and for him not to realise at 
the time that there was yet another step to complete with regards to the nationality identifier.
Mr and Mrs A say that they experienced further inconvenience given they were prevented 
from trading until the issues were resolved. But from everything Ive seen, I dont agree they 
missed out on trading opportunities. Though there will have been difficulty in trading online, 
Mrs A could have called Barclays with a trading instruction. Had that have led to higher 
charges or some other detriment, it could have been something for us to consider now. 
This was something Mrs A was aware of too, as during a call recording from 17 January 
2019 she was told she could buy or sell over the phone at the internet rate. But Ive not seen 
that to have been the case. And I think that had the couple wanted to have traded, its more 
likely than not that theyd have called to ask for help with this and theyd have resolved the 
nationality identifier issue then. I appreciate Mr A has highlighted the fall in their portfolio 
value during the period, but I havent seen they had tried to manage this  instead the fall 
was a reflection of market performance into 2020 given the pandemic, not due to the 
administrative issues they faced. 
Mr and Mrs A also raised concern about having shares sold to meet fees but this doesnt 
appear to have been the case  I can see from screenshots of Barclays system that fees 
were set to be taken from cash on their account and that the account history between 2017 
and 2020 showed dividend reinvestment rather than sales. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A did have a direct debit set up, but the system showed it to have been cancelled  Barclays has 
explained this was because it hadnt been used for some time  this isnt unusual so I find it 
a plausible explanation. 
In summary, I can see that Barclays did make an error here. I accept there was some 
unnecessary inconvenience to Mr and Mrs A in trying to resolve these issues and at times 
Barclays couldve been more helpful. But I also find that these issues couldve been resolved 
sooner had Mr and Mrs A continued to engage with Barclays from January 2019 to March 
2020. I havent seen there to have been lost opportunity or financial loss here, so having 
considered Barclays involvement in the delays and impact of the inconvenience caused 
while I understand Mr and Mrs A will remain unhappy, I find the offer Barclays has already 
made to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think the offer made is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances so unless it has already done so, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay £225 
for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman