DRN-1676960
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out PPI when they applied for a mortgage in December 2002. The policy 
gave them protection for their mortgage repayments if they couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment and the benefit was split between them - 60% for Mr T 
and 40% for Mrs T. It also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that they were never told they were being sold PPI. If they'd 
known, they wouldn't have taken it because they never took any form of insurance or 
warranty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory - as some of it is here - I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they don't recall being told about the PPI. And that's not surprising given 
how long ago this happened. But I find there must have been some discussion about PPI for 
the policy to be taken out with the benefit split 60/40 between Mr and Mrs T. Taking this into 
consideration with what we know about Halifax PPI sales at this time, and the paperwork 
that would - in all likelihood - have been completed, I think , overall, Halifax presented the 
policy as optional and Mr and Mrs T decided to take it.  
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy. It doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.
Mr and Mrs T were eligible for the policy, given their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr and Mrs T recall they would have each received up to six months pay from their 
employers if they couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that they had some 
savings. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid out in addition to these 
work benefits and for up to 24 months. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs T's home was at risk if they didn't keep up with the repayments. 
It also covered them if they'd become unemployed. So, overall, I dont think their existing 
arrangements made the PPI unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs T weren't affected by any of the conditions limiting the policy's main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better advice or information about the policy's exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs 
T before they agreed to purchase it. I think they probably weren't told it would cost £32.02 
each month until after they'd applied for it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected their decision to purchase the policy. 
They'd chosen to take out the PPI, knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs T would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them. 
I've taken into account what they say about not usually taking warranties or insurance. But 
this does not change my conclusion. This was a policy to protect their mortgage repayments. 
As noted earlier, their home was at risk if they couldn't make the monthly payments. So I 
think they would have considered this policy differently to warranties and insurance for 
goods and services. Overall, I think they would still have taken out the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman