DRN-4174246
The complaint
Mr S and Mr C complain that Capital Home Loans Limited (CHL) unnecessarily appointed 
receivers on two buy-to-let properties where the term had ended, when it knew that they 
were in the process of remortgaging those properties.
What happened
In 2005, Mr S and Mr V took out a buy-to-let mortgage with CHL over  a term of 15 years  
so it was due to be repaid on 31 July 2020.
In 2006, Mr S and Mr V took out another buy-to-let mortgage with CHL over a term of 15 
years  so it was due to be repaid on 31 October 2021.
On 4 October 2022, as the mortgages had not been repaid, CHL appointed receivers. The 
mortgages were repaid on 10 November 2022.
Mr S and Mr V complain:
CHL knew they had offers in place to remortgage to another lender  so it was 
unreasonable to appoint receivers
They incurred fees of over £12,000 for the appointment of receivers  despite them only 
being in place for four days. 
CHL has recorded a default on their credit files  this has led to their credit card limits 
being reduced and meant they cant access new interest rate products on other 
mortgages.
They did not understand why they were asked to repay £90,033.95 in respect of one of 
the mortgages  they believe the balance should have been £88,780.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S and Mr V did not accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
The Covid 19 pandemic meant they had difficulty sourcing anew lender to remortgage.
Theyd used credit cards to refurbish some of the properties with the intention of 
increasing rental and sale values and then remortgaging to repay the credit cards. No 
one foresaw the pandemic, but it ruined their plans.
They told CHL about of their plans  and they could not have done any more to keep it 
informed.
Appointing receivers was premature. There was no justification to not pause any action 
for around two months to allow the remortgage to go ahead.
There was no compelling reason that meant CHL had to appoint receivers  it was not 
incurring any loss and certainly not to justify expenditure of over £12,000.
They are being punished for delays that were outside their control.
The investigator later said he thought the disputed end balance of the mortgage was correct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S and Mr V took out the mortgages they agreed to pay them back in 2020 and 
2021. I agree that the pandemic would have made it difficult for them to remortgage when 
the term ended. But CHL offered them forbearance during that time and it did not take any 
formal recovery action. I consider it treated Mr S and Mr V fairly. 
Mr S and Mr V told CHL that they were in the process of selling two other properties. Their 
plan was to use the proceeds of the sales to clear the credit card balance and then they 
would be able to remortgage the two mortgaged properties. CHL asked Mr S and Mr V for 
evidence that they had remortgage applications in place to repay the mortgages  both by 
phone and in writing. The letters included clear warnings that if the debt wasnt repaid in a 
mutually acceptable time, then CHL would take steps to recover the debt by appointing 
receivers or forcing a sale  and that defaults would be recorded on their credit files.
While Mr S and Mr V might have told CHL about their plans, I think it was reasonable for a 
lender in that position to seek evidence to support that the mortgage was going to be repaid. 
Despite several reminders, I cant see that Mr S and Mr V supplied the evidence that CHL 
had asked for before the receivers were appointed. So it was reasonable for it to appoint 
receivers when it did. 
I consider CHL gave Mr S and Mr V a fair opportunity over several months to provide the 
evidence it was asking for. Its unfortunate that the remortgages were close to completing 
when the receivers were appointed. But CHL was clear that it needed evidence to support 
the steps Mr S and Mr V were taking to repay the mortgage and that Mr S and Mr V merely 
keeping it updated wasnt enough. I consider that CHL was entitled to appoint receivers in 
these circumstances. It was fair, bearing in mind the amount of forbearance it had already 
shown by that point, as the term of the mortgages had ended some time ago and as Mr S 
and Mr V had not given it the evidence it had reasonably requested.
The evidence I have shows that CHL has passed on the receivers costs to Mr S and Mr V. It 
is entitled to do so. I dont think this was unfair  and the level of fees are not unusual in my 
experience. Mr S and Mr C said CHL had refunded one set of fees. That is more than I could 
reasonably require it to do in the circumstances. Once the receivers had been appointed, I 
consider it was reasonable for CHL to keep them in place until the mortgages had been 
repaid. 
The receivers were acting on behalf of Mr S and Mr V and they arent covered by our 
jurisdiction. So I cant look at any acts or omissions by the receivers.  
CHL was also entitled to record defaults on Mr S and Mr Vs credit file. I think that was an 
accurate reflection of the conduct of the accounts. But CHL has agreed to remove them. 
CHL has told us it has taken steps to remove the default that remained with one credit 
reference agency. Hopefully that has resolved the matter. But as the default was recorded 
correctly, I cant tell CHL to compensate Mr S and Mr V for that.I cant see that the redemption balance is incorrect. The increase in balance reflected 
interest and solicitors costs. I cant see any error by CHL.
I understand the impact of the pandemic on Mr S and Mr Vs plans. But CHL showed 
forbearance in not taking recovery action sooner. It set out clearly a number of times over 
several months that it needed evidence of the remortgages. That was not provided  and I 
cant see how the pandemic could have prevented Mr S and Mr V complying with CHLs 
request. They might have been doing all they could to arrange the remortgages. But without 
the evidence of that, it was reasonable for CHL to appoint receivers and to pass on the cost 
of that to Mr S and Mr V. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman