DRN-4322644
The complaint
Mr A complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly avoided his home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his home insurance policy in 2022. His home had been broken into 
and extensive damaged caused. Admiral reviewed the claim but didnt agree to pay it. It said 
Mr A had failed to disclose a pending criminal conviction when he renewed his policy in 
2019. It considered this to be a misrepresentation. And in these circumstances the relevant 
law entitles it to avoid the policy  cancel it as it never existed  back to the date the 
misrepresentation was made. However as it considered the misrepresentation to be 
careless, it returned his premiums as required under the law.  
Mr A complained to Admiral. He said he hadnt been convicted of anything, and he wasnt 
aware he needed to disclose charges awaiting trial. He said it wasnt a pending conviction 
because he intended to plead not guilty. He also complained about the length of time it had 
taken for the claim to be reviewed, and the poor communication from Admiral throughout. 
Admiral didnt agree to change its position on the claim. But it accepted it had taken longer 
than it should have to review it. And it accepted Mr A had been promised call backs which 
then didnt happen. It offered £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. Mr A didnt accept that, so brought the complaint to this 
service. He said Admirals delays had meant he ended up selling his property for about 
£15,000 less than he would have otherwise done. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted reasonably in avoiding the policy. He said there 
had been delays in the claim, but £100 was a reasonable offer of compensation in respect of 
those. 
Mr A didnt accept the outcome. As he didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt tell it at renewal in 2019 that hed been charged with a criminal offence earlier in the 
year. 
Ive looked at the information provided to Mr A at renewal in 2019. On the home proposal 
confirmation form, it says the details must be checked. Mr A says this proposal form only 
mentioned convictions, so as he hadnt been convicted, he didnt think he needed to declare 
it. I accept Mr As point that its not clear hed need to declare it on the proposal form. The 
proposal form also says Mr A needs to read another document, his guide to home 
insurance document. In that, it clearly says Mr A needs to let Admiral know if he has been 
charged with a criminal offence. But, I accept Admiral could have done more to highlight this 
to Mr A. However, even if I accept Mr A did take reasonable care in 2019, in later policy 
years, Admiral did more to highlight that it wanted to know about any criminal offences. 
From 2020 (the following policy year) at renewal, the email sent to Mr A directed him to a 
specific section of his policy booklet to check the details were correct. It also said that Mr As 
policy could be cancelled if there is false or inaccurate information provided. And in the 
relevant section of the policy booklet Admiral referred him to, it says Admiral must be 
informed if anyone living at the property has been charged with a criminal offence. So Im 
satisfied Mr A failed to take reasonable care to correct this information. That means he made 
a misrepresentation at this point.
Mr A says he often called up to renew his policy and add or change things, and he was 
never asked about criminal charges. Admiral no longer has a copy of these calls. But even if 
I accept Mr A wasnt asked specifically about criminal charges during the phone call, I still 
consider he didnt take reasonable care to not make a misrepresentation.  
Admiral can only avoid the policy if it can show Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one. This means it has to show it would have acted differently, had Mr A disclosed his 
criminal charges. Admiral has provided evidence from one of its senior underwriters, which 
confirms had Mr A disclosed his criminal charge, it wouldnt have renewed the policy. This 
means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Admiral has said it has treated Mr As misrepresentation as careless. As the most 
favourable outcome for Mr A in the circumstances, Im not going to interfere with its decision 
to do so. So Ive looked at the actions Admiral can take in accordance with CIDRA when it 
treats a misrepresentation as careless. 
It is entitled to cancel the policy back to the date of the misrepresentation and return any 
premiums paid to the consumer. So Im satisfied Admiral can avoid Mr As policy. This 
means that  in effect  his policy never existed. Admiral has done this back to 2019. Having 
considered everything, Im not satisfied the 2019 renewal was clear enough to say Mr A 
made a careless misrepresentation. However, I think its fair for Admiral to avoid the policy 
back to 2020. Its shown its underwiring criteria for that year hadnt changed and it still 
wouldnt have offered Mr A cover. 
I consider Admiral avoiding the policy back to 2019 leaves Mr A in no worse position. 
Admiral has in effect refunded premiums for a further year it didnt need to. And since the 
property is now being sold (or already has been), there is no risk of a valid claim being 
raised for the policy year of 2019-2020. So Im not going to interfere with Admirals decision 
to avoid it back to 2019. 
So it follows, since the policy doesnt exist - that Admiral doesnt have to deal with the claim 
Mr A made for damage to his property in 2022. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Admiral to rely on it to avoid Mr As 
policy is the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
I accept it took Admiral longer than Id expect to give Mr A his outcome. Its offered £100 to 
apologise for that delay. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances, given the delay didnt cause detriment of a valid claim. Mr A has said the delay meant when he sold his property, 
he received a lot less money for it. Im not persuaded Admiral is at fault for any loss of value 
in Mr As property by delaying the outcome to the claim, and Mr A hasnt provided any 
evidence to support this. So Im not going to ask Admiral to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do 
anything differently
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman