DRN-2495486
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund him for 
transactions made from his account, which he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr C says that three payments of £400 were made from his current account on 18 April 2020 
without his consent.
He says that early in the morning of 18 April 2020, he was woken by his wife as she had 
heard his phone alert sound. Mr C checked his phone and saw two messages from 
Nationwide relating to attempted transactions on his account. Mr C says he logged into his 
mobile banking and tried unsuccessfully to transfer funds from his current account to another 
account - as he believed fraud was being attempted on his Nationwide account.
Nationwide say they received a call from Mr Cs registered mobile phone number just before 
5am regarding three attempted transactions that hadnt gone through. Nationwide says the 
caller passed security and was told Nationwide would unblock the card so the caller could 
remake the transactions. Mr C says he didnt make this call.
Shortly after this call happened, Mr C says he saw another message from Nationwide asking 
him to verify some activity on his account. Mr C says he didnt reply to this message or call 
the numbers given in the message as he was trying to determine what was happening 
independently. 
Mr C says he received another message a few minutes later confirming that his account was 
unblocked and that the transactions could be processed. Mr C says he didnt see this 
message at the time.
Mr C called Nationwide to report the issue and explained that he hadnt authorised the 
transactions that had debited his account.
Nationwide investigated Mr Cs complaint but declined to refund the payments, so Mr C 
brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt that it 
was most likely that Mr C had authorised the transactions as they couldnt identify a point of 
compromise for someone accessing his mobile phone and debit card details. They also felt 
that there wasnt an explanation as to how someone couldve gathered enough information 
to successfully pass Nationwides security during a call which was made shortly before the 
transactions occurred. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings, saying:
- He didnt conduct the transactions.
- He hadnt received any suspicious texts or emails and had only supplied his debit 
card information to third parties when purchasing goods online. 
- He didnt call Nationwide prior to when he reported the transactions as fraudulent.
- He didnt respond to any of Nationwides text messages.
As Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Nationwide has provided evidence that Mr Cs genuine card information, including the long 
number, the expiry date and the CVV code, were used to make the transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to 
hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr C consented to the transactions being made.
A call was made to Nationwides helpline on the day of the disputed transactions. During this 
call, the caller asked to have the account unblocked as theyd been unable to complete the 
transactions that had been attempted.
Nationwides evidence shows that this call was made from Mr Cs registered mobile phone 
number. Further to that, the caller confirmed numerous pieces of personal information about 
Mr C and his accounts with Nationwide in order to pass security. The level of detail given to 
Nationwide during the call was substantial, with the caller confirming Mr Cs account number, 
sort code, postcode, date of birth, details of lending with Nationwide and also Mr Cs full 
previous address.
I havent seen anything that explains how someone couldve obtained this information 
without Mr Cs knowledge or authority. Especially as Mr C has also confirmed that he was in 
possession of his mobile phone at the time of the transactions and when the call was made 
to Nationwide. 
Im also conscious that the three transactions were for almost the exact available balance, 
which suggests the person completing the transactions knew what funds were available. And 
there were no further attempted transactions after the three that successfully debited Mr Cs 
account. Usually Id expect to see an unauthorised third party continue to attempt 
transactions, which hasnt happened in this case.And Mr C has told us he had possession of his debit card and mobile phone throughout the 
time the disputed transactions occurred, and during the time the call was made to 
Nationwide to unblock the account. He also confirmed he hadnt responded to any 
suspicious communications or given his debit card information out in the build up to the 
transactions, other than when purchasing goods online.
Because of that its difficult to see how an unauthorised third party wouldve been able to 
make the call and complete the transactions Mr C is disputing.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr C authorised the payments and therefore I cant 
fairly ask Nationwide to refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman