DRN-3608700
The complaint
Mr M complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) declined his claim and avoided his 
motor insurance policy (treated it as though it never existed) following the theft of his car.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr Ms car was stolen. He claimed to West Bay, but it declined his claim 
and told him it was avoiding his policy. It says Mr M failed to disclose motoring convictions, 
which had it known about it wouldnt have been able to offer him insurance. 
Mr M complained to West Bay. He explained he had been in prison for two years and wasnt 
aware of the convictions. He also says he was in prison when a speeding conviction was 
applied, and a court had since removed this. West Bay maintained its decision to decline the 
claim and avoid the policy. Mr M didnt think this was fair and so referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She says it was his responsibility to check 
that the information he provided when obtaining insurance was accurate. As he didnt 
disclose his motoring convictions, she thought West Bay had acted fairly. Mr M disagreed. 
He asked that an ombudsman should consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
West Bay says Mr M didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
made his application, via an online comparison site, regarding two motoring convictions. It 
has supplied the questions Mr M was presented with during the application. I can see that he 
was asked:
Have you committed any driving offences or had any Fixed Penalty Notices in the last 5 
years? 
If you dont tell your insurer about previous offences, your car insurance may not pay out if 
you make a claim
A help section is shown by clicking on the Need help? icon for this question. This says:
Wondering what counts? Insurers need to know about any driving offences youve been 
convicted of, including any Fixed Penalty Notices (FPNs) youve been issued for offences 
such as speeding, driving with blood/alcohol level above the limit 
And:
Not sure how to find out? You can find out here on your driving record. The DVLA uses 
codes for different motoring offences  it should tell you the date and code for the offence, 
which is all you need 
I think the question Mr M was asked was clear and the help information showed where this 
information could be found. I have seen DVLA records that show a DG10 conviction was 
recorded against Mr M in September 2016. His policy began in May 2021. This was within 
five years of the conviction being recorded and so shouldve been disclosed by Mr M. 
Mr M says he wasnt aware of this conviction. I acknowledge he was in prison for two years 
from 2017, but I dont think this impacts here. I say this because the conviction occurred 
before he went to prison. When he applied for insurance Mr M was prompted with a specific 
question and information to explain what should be disclosed. 
West Bay also highlights a TT99 motoring conviction on Mr Ms licence that has an expiry 
date at the end of July 2021. It says this should also have been disclosed. Mr M says this 
conviction was removed from his licence by a court. I note West Bay and our investigator 
asked Mr M if he had evidence from the court to confirm this. He wasnt able to provide this. 
Mr M did provide a letter from a court, which is dated in January 2022. But this doesnt say 
the conviction was removed.
Based on this I think its reasonable for West Bay to say Mr M mispresented the information 
he provided by not disclosing his motoring convictions. Even if the TT99 conviction had been 
removed by the court, which hasnt been shown, this still left the DG10 conviction.   
West Bay has provided its underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr M had disclosed either 
of the DG10 or TT99 convictions, it wouldnt have provided cover at all. From this Im 
satisfied that Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
West Bay treated Mr Ms misrepresentation as careless. Throughout his claim and complaint 
Mr M maintains he wasnt aware that he had convictions to declare when he applied for his 
insurance policy. I think it was his responsibility to ensure he checked the information he 
provided was accurate, and by not doing so he made a qualifying misrepresentation. But I 
think West Bay acted reasonably by treating it as careless as opposed to a reckless or 
deliberate misrepresentation. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I think West Bay acted fairly and in line with the CIDRA rules when declining his claim and avoiding his policy. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman