DRN-2029305
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the service she received from Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) 
under her travel insurance policy, when needing assistance whilst abroad.
All reference to URV includes its emergency medical assistance line. 
What happened
Ms J had the benefit of a long stay travel insurance policy underwritten by URV, which was 
taken out to cover a period of travelling abroad, between September 2018 and March 2019 
(the policy).
On 23 November 2018, Ms J started to feel unwell and visited a pharmacy for some 
medication to bring down her temperature. She says she was advised to go to hospital (the 
first hospital) which she did.
She underwent some tests at the first hospital and was told she needed an appendectomy. 
She says she was told the best hospital to have this operation was based in the capital city 
of the country she was in (the recommended hospital), which was a few hundred kilometres 
away from the city she was in. 
Ms J says she went back to her accommodation to collect some possessions and she and 
staff working at the accommodation tried to contact URV without success; it was 
experiencing a large volume of calls and she was held in a queue system. She says she 
then went back to the first hospital and carried on trying to contact URV. When she still 
couldnt get through, the first hospital arranged for her to be transferred to another hospital in 
the city she was staying in (the second hospital) and she underwent surgery within the next 
24 hours. 
After being discharged from the second hospital on 26 November 2018, Ms J attended the 
A & E department of a third hospital on the advice of a friend whod been a nurse as she still 
wasnt feeling well. She was subsequently transferred to the intensive care unit as her entire 
body was swollen, she had kidney failure, a blood infection and fluid on her lungs. She was 
eventually discharged from the third hospital on 4 December 2018.
Ms J is very unhappy with the lack of assistance she received from URV. As she couldnt get 
through to URV on 23 November 2018, she says she ended up being operated on in a 
different hospital to the one initially recommended by the first hospital. And although Ms Js 
mum had been able to speak to URV on 24 November 2018 to let it know about Ms Js 
operation, she says URV failed to offer her any support. 
This continued after URV had been notified that Ms J had been admitted to the third hospital 
and it didnt request a medical report from the hospital until 1 December 2018; four days 
after shed been admitted.
Ms J is also unhappy that URV didnt pay for her onward travel to a bordering country so that 
she could stay with friends who could assist her with her recovery.
URV partially upheld Ms Js complaint. It accepted that the service it provided to Ms J was 
below the expected standard and apologised to her. It also offered Ms J £600 in 
compensation.  However, it says its not responsible for the standard of medical care she 
received whilst she was in the second hospital or the condition of that hospital. 
Ms J doesnt think £600 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of what URV did wrong in this case. So, she complained to our 
Service.
Our investigator, whilst empathising with the situation Ms J found herself in, didnt uphold her 
complaint. Although URV had accepted that it got things wrong, our investigator said the 
offer of £600 was fair and reasonable.
Ms J disagreed. Her complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I want to first let Ms J know that I recognise the extremely 
difficult situation she found herself in towards the end of 2018 and how her experience has 
affected her since. 
And although shes made detailed representations  which Ive considered in their entirety - 
Ill only refer to the points which I think are central to my findings. I mean no discourtesy by 
doing so. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
The relevant industry guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim.
Although URV says it was experiencing higher volumes of calls around the time Ms J first 
tried to contact its medical assistance helpline on 23 November 2018, it accepts that a 
customer shouldnt be kept waiting, unable to get through, when they require urgent support. 
And as Ms J was unable to speak to a representative of URV, it meant she was unassisted 
immediately before undergoing surgery. URV also accepts that it didnt provide Ms J with enough information for her to understand 
the process it was following or the next steps to be taken. It accepts that if shed been made 
better aware, this wouldve eased some of the distress she was feeling. 
However, URV says that had Ms J been able to talk to one of its representatives after she 
initially left the first hospital, having been told she required an appendectomy, she wouldve 
been advised to go to the nearest public hospital. Of course, I cant know for sure what 
wouldve happened. But on the balance of probabilities I think its more likely than not thats 
the advice URV wouldve given Ms J at the time.
Towards the start of the policy theres a section entitled: in case of serious emergency. This 
directs the policyholder in what they should do in such situations and states the policy covers 
treatment at a public / state facility only, unless approved by URV. In that same section it 
says the policy doesnt cover private medical treatment unless approved by URV.  
Further, under the section of the policy entitled: if you need emergency medical attention, 
the policy says: we will pay for your customary and reasonable fees or charges for 
necessary and emergency treatment, to be provided outside your home country, for medical, 
surgical, hospital or nursing services.
It also says: provided you are not claiming for costs ofprivate treatment unless our 24 
hour Emergency Assistance Facilities Service has agreed and adequate public facilities are 
not available.
I know Ms J says the first hospital suggested the recommended hospital to her. But that was 
a few hundred kilometres away. And I think its unlikely that this suggestion in itself wouldve 
persuaded URV to authorise the surgery to take place at the recommended hospital, when 
there were public hospitals closer to where Ms J was staying. Ive taken into account what 
Ms J says about the minor illness section of the policy; its only in the case of minor illnesses 
that the policy directs the policyholder to ask their hotel or tour representative for the nearest 
public / state medical facility. But that doesnt mean in emergency situations, URV still 
wouldnt have advised Ms J to go to the nearest public hospital. 
So, Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that had Ms J been able to contact 
URV before she was transferred to the second hospital, this wouldve prevented the 
operation taking place there. 
I cant hold URV responsible for the standard of care or treatment Ms J received at the 
second hospital; or the condition the hospital was in. Its not responsible for the actions / 
inactions of the medical professionals at the second hospital or the medical decisions made 
by them. But I do accept that from Ms Js perspective she was badly let down by URV when 
she was unable to get through to it initially  and thereafter by its lack of communication with 
her and her medical professionals after it had been made aware of her surgery. She was 
particularly vulnerable at this time and I accept that URVs failings unnecessarily 
exacerbated an already distressing time for her. URV also put her to inconvenience including 
spending significant time trying to contact its emergency helpline and asking others to do so 
for her when she was unable to get through  which from the evidence Ive seen, Im 
persuaded happened both before and after her surgery. 
URV has offered Ms J £600 in compensation. I know Ms J doesnt think this in any way 
compensates her for what shes been through. And I understand why. She says what 
happened effectively ruined her trip. She says her health continues to suffer, shes been left 
with an unsightly scar, shes experienced post-traumatic stress and is undergoing therapy. 
Ms J also says shes experienced loss of earnings because of complications arising from the 
surgery. But, for the reasons explained above, I dont hold URV responsible for the treatment and care she received from medical staff at the second hospital. So, it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for it to be held responsible for any financial losses flowing from the effects of the 
surgery or any ongoing trauma or medical complications. 
Having considered very carefully the impact of URVs wrongdoings in this case, Im satisfied 
£600 fairly and reasonably reflects the substantial distress and inconvenience URV caused 
Ms J. 
When making this finding, Ive also taken account that around 9 / 10 December 2018 Ms J 
travelled to the capital city of the country she was in as she wanted to be checked over by a 
medical team there. She says that she did email URV before setting off and having not 
heard back from it, decided to travel there by bus which, she says, took eight hours.  She 
says when she arrived, she called URV from the British Embassy and it didnt decline to 
cover the further tests. 
Had URV been able to respond to Ms J before she set off for her journey to the capital city, I 
dont know whether it wouldve assisted her with transportation to get there. By that stage, 
shed been discharged from the hospital by almost a week and she no longer required 
emergency treatment. However, I dont need to make a finding on that point. Thats because 
the journey wouldve still taken several hours by road  even if Ms J hadnt taken a bus. So, 
she wouldve been put to the inconvenience of having to travel to the capital city. And 
although its likely the journey wouldve been more comfortable if not by bus, Im satisfied 
that the compensation already offered by URV sufficiently compensates her for any 
additional distress experienced by Ms J having to take the bus. 
Shortly after Ms J arrived in the capital city, URV was able to validate cover under the policy 
and it was satisfied that she was fit to fly. It offered to curtail her trip and cover the costs of 
repatriating her back to the UK. Ms J preferred to travel on to a bordering country so that she 
could stay with friends who lived there to recuperate. URVs system notes and Ms Js 
evidence reflect that she wanted URV to cover her travel costs to the bordering country, 
which URV declined to do on the basis that the onward travel wasnt a result of a medical 
emergency. I dont think URVs decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of 
this case; particularly as it had offered to cover the costs of repatriating her to the UK as per 
the terms of the policy. 
Nor do I think URV was responsible for the costs of relocating Ms Js motorbike from the city 
she had been staying in, to the neighbouring country. I know Ms J has ultimately accepted 
the investigators finding on that point. But I want to assure her thats not a cost thats 
covered under the policy and further, Im persuaded that the reason she was unable to ride 
her bike was due to her operation, and the immediate aftermath, which resulted in her being 
admitted to the third hospital. As Ive set out above, the medical care she received wasnt the 
responsibility of URV. For the same reasons, Im not persuaded URV is responsible for the 
anxiety she felt about leaving her motorbike behind or that it would be fair to ask it to 
compensate her for being unable to sell the motorbike - as shed planned to do at the end of 
her trip.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman