DRN-3675069
The complaint
Mr S, who was the sole proprietor of an overseas business, complains that Revolut Ltd 
closed his business account.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Revolut, which was in the name of his business, a sole 
proprietorship registered in Norway. In October 2020, Revolut reviewed Mr Ss account. 
During the review, it came to light that Mr Ss business had been deleted from the 
Norwegian business registry. Following the completion of the review, Revolut closed Mr Ss 
account.
Mr S says hes unhappy with this decision. He complains that Revolut closed his account 
without giving reasons. He also says that under the law of Norway, as a sole proprietor, he 
was able to use bank accounts in both his business and private capacity. He says he hasnt 
carried out any suspicious transactions, or engaged in criminal activity,
Mr S has asked for £3,400 compensation, and for Revolut to delete any adverse information 
it holds about him so he can apply for an account in future.
As a gesture of goodwill, Revolut offered £20 in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Our investigator looked at that, and didnt think Revolut needed to do more. Mr S didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss business was a sole proprietorship registered in Norway. This is a simple form of 
business organisation: the business doesnt have a separate legal personality from the 
owner. But if its carrying on business activity in Norway it may need to register with the 
relevant registry  and be deleted if it ceases commercial activity.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr Ss business was registered by the relevant business registry  
and was deleted from that registry in mid-2020. Around that time, Mr S contacted Revolut to 
say he wanted to close his business account as hed closed his company. When he did this, 
he also told Revolut it might cause him problems in Norway if he kept his account open.
Then, in October 2020, Revolut carried out the review of Mr Ss account. At that point, it 
asked Mr S to provide up-to-date company registration documents to verify the existence of 
his business. It completed its review in January 2021, and decided it could no longer offer 
Mr S services. Revolut closed Mr Ss account.
Looking at all of this, I cant say Revoluts decision to close Mr Ss business account was 
unreasonable. Mr Ss business had been erased from the relevant government registry  
and the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ss account said Revolut could close an 
account immediately if thered been an important change in the type of business Mr S 
carried out, Mr S had disposed of significant business assets or where it had been wound up 
or a similar event had taken place. Im also mindful that Mr S had told Revolut that hed 
closed his business and asked Revolut to close his account at that time  it appears this is 
something Mr S wanted Revolut to do.
In any case, looking over the transaction history I see Mr S had withdrawn the entire balance 
of the account by the beginning of September 2020, and that in the following months his only 
transactions appear to have been two months of a corporate premium plan fee, one of which 
was refunded, and two further refunded payments which Mr S then transferred to an external 
account. So Mr S wasnt using this account at the point Revolut closed it.
Ive considered Mr Ss further comments. Mr S tells us that Revolut placed restrictions on the 
account in April, and this was the reason hed needed to close his business. But when we 
explained that the statements showed hed continued using the account beyond that point, 
he then said the account was restricted in August. Weve asked Revolut about this. Revoluts 
records dont show any restrictions on this account until December 2020, as part of its 
review. By this time Mr S had already asked Revolut to close this account and had 
withdrawn all the funds. So while Ive carefully considered what Mr S has said, it doesnt 
change my conclusions.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Mr S should contact Revolut Ltd if he now wishes to accept 
their offer of £20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman