The complaint  
T, a trust, complains that TTT Moneycorp Limited (Moneycorp) didnt do enough to prevent  
the loss it suffered when it transferred money to an account held with it. Mr T brings the  
complaint on behalf of the trust.  
What happened  
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide  
a brief overview of so me of the key events here. T transferred funds to a company Ill refer to  
as G. At the time T believed these to be in respect of the purchase of Loan Note Investments  
(LNI). £20,000 was sent in March 2018 and a further £40,000 was sent on 5 March 2019.  
Both payments arrived in an account in Gs name which was held with Moneycorp.  
In October 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a notice saying that G had  
entered preliminary bankruptcy proceedings. T had complained to Moneycorp in September  
2020. The crux of the complaint was that G had defrauded T and that Moneycorp were liable  
as they had failed against various obligations to prevent this. They sought reimbursement of  
the funds lost (plus interest) as a remedy to the complaint.  
Moneycorp resp onded and in summary didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. The matter  
was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt think we could consider all of  
Ts complaint. And for what we could consider, she didnt recommend it should be upheld.  T 
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint.  
Ive already issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction and essentially that I can only make  
a finding in relation to any act or omission by Moneycorp which took place on or after 31  
January 2019. And in September 2023 I issued a provisional decision as to the merits of the  
complaint. In that decision I said:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this compla int. 
T has made detailed submissions in support of its complaint. Ive read and considered all of  
these, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. Ive kept my findings to what I believe to  
be the crux of the matter and in sufficient detail to expla in my decision. This isnt intended as  
a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. We are intended to  
be an informal alternative to the courts. We arent intended to forensically investigate matters  
and are tasked with resolving complaints with minimal formality.  
T have questioned how a determination can fairly be made when certain information cant be  
shared, meaning it cant be challe nged. Our service isnt exempt from data protection law.  
We are able to handle a wide range of data due to our statutory role and this can include  
sensitive and third -party information. And the rules that apply to our service, allow us to  
accept such evide nce in confidence. Where information relates to a third party, or is  
commercially sensitive, it cant freely be shared. But T are correct that we must still follow  
the principles of natural justice. As such, we can (and upon request do) share information  
that weve relied upon in reaching our outcome. But this may be by describing what it is  
DRN-4460850weve seen, or by providing limited or redacted parts of the evidence weve received. This  
enables us to both provide each side with an opportunity to comment, and to e nsure we  
process data in ways that are compliant with our obligations.  
 
Much of Ts submissions to our service involve legal arguments including that Moneycorp  
were acting as an agent of its accountholder G and that they owe T a duty of care. T holds  
Mone ycorp responsible for being either complicit or reckless with regard to what it says are  
misrepresentations by G.  
I dont agree that an authorised payment institution (API) like Moneycorp can fairly be  
considered as an agent of its customers. G had a custo mer relationship with Moneycorp, but  
nothing Ive seen persuades me that the relationship between the parties was more than  
that. What T seems to be suggesting would mean that in any case where an API provides a  
payment service to those who are acting frau dulently, there is an agency relationship  
between the parties such that the bank would be liable. This isnt the case.  
 
Moneycorp provided an account and payment services to G. Moneycorp had various  
obligations with regard to Anti -Money Laundering (AML) and  general obligations to be alert  
to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But I dont agree that they  
were required to conduct detailed investigations into or have oversight of the activity of their  
customers as a matter of course, in the way that T seems to expect.  
 
T have made much of the fact that Moneycorps details were included on the LNI offer form  
as the account to receive funds. I agree this is the case. But Moneycorp have maintained  
throughout that they had no knowledge of the LNI issued by G. And Ive seen nothing that  
persuades me they would or should have known this. This was an offer note issue d by G,  
not Moneycorp, whose details were included in the context of where money should be sent.  
And if G misrepresented the account as an escrow account, I dont think that is something  
that Moneycorp are responsible for, as G and Moneycorp are distinct a nd separate legal  
entities, accountable for their own actions.  
 
The details on the LNI form (and presumably included as part of the information transmitted  
along with the payment to Moneycorp) stated: TTT Moneycorp Ltd GBP Client Safeguarding  
Account. It also provided the relevant sort code, account number and international banking  
account number (IBAN). The implication here seems to be that Moneycorp ought to have  
known that the funds werent going into a client safeguarding account.  
 
The Payment Service s Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) set out that a payment is sent  
according to a unique identifier. This is the key information used to route the payment to the  
correct destination and payee.  
 
The PSRs define a unique identifier as follows:  
 
 .. unique ident ifier means a combination of letters, numbers or symbols specified to the  
payment service user by the payment service provider and to be provided by the payment  
service user in relation to a payment transaction in order to identify unambiguously one or  
both of 
 
(a) another payment service user who is a party to the payment transaction;  
(b) the other payment service users payment account  
 
The effect of this is that for UK payments this is typically the account number and sort code.  
Other inform ation may be provided as part of the payment instruction, but this is not part of  
the unique identifier, unless it has been specified as such by the payment service provider  
(PSP)  which is not the case here.  
  
A payee name is not unique. A PSP could hold multiple accounts for persons with the same  
name, however, no two payment account s share the same account number and sort code  
this is unique to that specific payment account. Therefore, typically these details (not a  
payees name) are considered the unique identifier.  
 
Section 90 of the PSRs states:  
 
(1) Where a payment order is ex ecuted in accordance with the unique identifier, the  
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider  
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique  
identifier  
 
The impact o f this is that as long as the payees PSP processes the payment transaction in  
accordance with the unique identifier provided and the funds are credited to the specified  
account number and sort code the payment is considered to be executed correctly.  
 
This is further supported by the introduction of, in more recent years, a system called  
Confirmation of Payee (CoP) by the Payment Systems Regulator, who are the regulator for  
the payment systems industry in the UK. If checking whether a name matched had alw ays 
been a requirement under the PSRs there would not have been a need to introduce such a  
system. However, at the material time CoP was not in place and Moneycorps systems like  
most other PSPs wouldve been set up to automatically credit payments receiv ed to the  
account with the corresponding unique identifier  checking the payees name or any  
reference provided against the account holder name and or type of account would not have  
been part of the process. Nor was it, as Ive explained above, a requirem ent under the  
relevant regulations, the PSRs.  
 
So I cant fairly say that Moneycorp didnt act reasonably when crediting Ts payment to the  
relevant account in line with the unique identifier provided. And I dont agree that this is  
something that Moneycorp  was required to check or verify in these specific circumstances.  
This is likewise the case for any other payments received (during the time period relevant to  
this complaint) in the account which may have included information beyond the unique  
identifier.  
 
I understand and accept Ts point that Moneycorp had an obligation to conduct ongoing due  
diligence in relation to Gs account. But firstly, Im only able to consider a period of around  
six weeks, that being between 31 January and mid -March 201 9 when the funds which T had  
sent to G in March 2019 had been transferred out of its account. As prior to that time I have  
no jurisdiction to comment on any alleged failure, and after that date it cant be said that any  
alleged failure would have impacted the loss T has suffered. And given the sophistication  
and scale of the scam here, which took place across Europe and over several years, Im not  
persuaded that any reasonable level of scrutiny by Moneycorp of Gs relationship with them  
would have revealed this in such a way that it would have prevented any of Ts loss from the  
March 2019 funds.  
 
Moneycorp has shared details of its policies with regard to its AML and know your customer  
(KYC) considerations. In essence it has explained that existing customer a ctivities are  
monitored both in real time and subsequent to payments taking place. Considerations  
include but are not limited to adverse media information, erratic transaction volumes or  
amounts, and unusual or out of character requests from an  account owner. Moneycorp have  
described the nature of Gs business (obtained from the information taken when opening the  
account) and that at all times the account activity was in line with what was expected for an  
account and business of that nature.  
 It says, were there to have been any flags raised, this would have prompted a more detailed  
review. And this risk -based approach is compliant with the obligations upon them. Theyve  
also stated that in the time period relevant to this complaint, they had no r eason to do more  
than the standard ongoing monitoring that did take place. Ive no reason to doubt what  
Moneycorp have said in this regard. And Im not persuaded that there is a basis upon which I  
think they ought to have done more within this time period that would have made a  
difference to the loss suffered by T.  
 
T have suggested that Moneycorp ought to have done due diligence on other entities with  
whom G were linked. Whilst there will be occasions where Moneycorp should look beyond  
its own accountholder and into other linked entities, I dont agree this is the case in the  
circumstances here. I can understand why, in hindsight, T believe this to be the case. But  
there was no unusual, suspicious or uncharacteristic activity such that I  think Moneycorp  
needed to do more. The accountholder was G, and that is who Moneycorp were required to  
know and conduct ongoing due diligence on. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im  
satisfied that during the six week period that I can consider u nder my jurisdiction there  
wasnt any reason for Moneycorp to conduct a detailed investigation of other entities that G  
may have been dealing with.  
 
By the end of January 2019, the account in question had been in operation for some time.  
The statements from  the previous year show that the activity on the account involved  
frequent significant credits to and debits from the account.  
 
In this context and with this background, I cant say there is anything in the activity on the  
account that took place between 31  January 2019 and mid -March 2019 (when the last of Ts  
funds were transferred from the account) which would have stood out as unusual, suspicious  
or potentially indicative of fraud. The account usage continued in the pattern which was  
already well establis hed by the previous activity. So, I dont think Moneycorp did anything  
wrong in not intervening in the account (based on the activity) at that time. And it follows that  
I dont think the loss T suffered was preventable in this way.  
 
Similarly, the evidence is clear that the funds were spent from the account, prior to  
Moneycorp receiving any notification that the payments had been made as the result of a  
scam. So nothing Moneycorp did when responding to this impacted upon what could be  
recovered.  
 
I understand  that this will come as a disappointment to T, but as I dont think (within the  
context of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), that Moneycorp did anything that  
caused or contributed to Ts loss, or hindered its recovery, there isnt a reasonable basis  
upon which I can require them to do more.  
 
T provided a response which Ill address below. Moneycorp didnt respond to my provisional  
decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Some of Ts further submissions relate to our services jurisdiction. Specifically that I have  
wrongly restric ted my ability to consider the general conduct of Gs account to the date when  
DISP 2.7.6R(2B) came into effect (31 January 2019). Ive already issued a jurisdiction  
decision which was sent to T and so I dont have anything to add beyond what Ive already  
said on this point which is that my jurisdiction only allows me to make a finding in relation to  
acts or omissions by Moneycorp which took place on or after 31 January 2019.   
I can and have taken account of information prior to that date where necessary to make a  
finding on actions within my jurisdiction. An example of this being Ive reviewed and  
considered the account activity prior to January 2019 to help me assess whether the activity  
after that date would have been unusual or suspicious such that Moneyc orp ought to have  
intervened. So I dont agree Ive unreasonably restricted myself or havent fairly considered  
the wider circumstances. But the fact remains that I can only make a finding on an act or  
omission within my jurisdiction which here, is on or a fter 31 January 2019.  
T also submitted a document that G sent to investors dated in September 2017. They say  
this shows that the relationship between G and Moneycorp had been ongoing for a number  
of years. The document indicates to investors that the accou nt was some sort of escrow  
account. T say that in light of this sort of communication it is inconceivable that Moneycorp  
was unaware of the terms of the LNI. T believe that Moneycorp should be properly  
interrogated on their records going back well before 3 1 January 2019. The implication seems  
to be that if Moneycorp had previously been made aware of the terms of the LNI, that their  
failure to act would have been ongoing in time beyond 30 January 2019.  
 
Ive considered this and I understand the point T is mak ing. But in the circumstances here,  
and for largely the same reasons as explained in my provisional decision, Im still not  
persuaded that Moneycorp were aware of the terms of the LNI and there cant therefore  
have been a failure to act on that basis on or  after 31 January 2019. Moneycorp have told  
our service that they had no knowledge of the terms of the LNI. And it is very difficult to  
provide evidence of a lack of knowledge of something. As Ive mentioned previously, our  
service isnt required to forensically examine matters were intended to be an informal  
alternative to the courts. So whilst I understand T thinks I should require Mone ycorp to  
provide all correspondence between them and G for a number of years, I feel I have  
sufficient evidence to decide this point. I accept, on balance, Moneycorps assertion that they  
had no knowledge of the terms of the LNI. I have no reason to doubt Moneycorps testimony.  
It is for each party to provide the evidence to support their position. T have had this  
opportunity and havent submitted anything that persuades me otherwise.  
 
T have made a similar point about the requirements for ongoing due dilige nce. Specifically, T  
said: In summary, it is a mistake by the Ombudsman to consider evidence of lack of due  
diligence, AML etc as restricted by the 31st January 2019 when DISP 2.7.6R(2B) became  
effective. The act or omission referred to in the regulation refers to the payment and  
disbursement of the £40,000, a transaction in respect of which, FOS was granted jurisdiction  
on 31st January 2019. The terms ("act or omission") do not refer to a pre -existing, persistent  
and overriding general obligation on [Mone yCorp] in respect of AML and KYC etc. They  
simply make the transaction judiciable by the FOS from that point. The key point for the  
Ombudsmans consideration is that 31st January 2019 relates to jurisdiction not to  
evidence.  
 
I have nothing further to add on this point. In these circumstances, I remain satisfied that it is  
only acts or omissions by Moneycorp that took place on or after 31 January 2019 that can be  
complained about (within our jurisdiction).  
 
T say that the crux of the matter lies in the knowledge of Moneycorp at the date they  
received the £40,000 in March 2019. To an extent I agree with this statement. If Moneycorp  
knew or reasonably ought to have known that those funds were paid into its account as the  
result of a fraud or scam, t hen Id have expected them to have taken action. But I dont agree  
they reasonably could have known this at the time. T have questioned my conclusion that  
any reasonable level of scrutiny (by Moneycorp of their relationship with G) wouldnt have  
revealed t he alleged scam such that it would have prevented Ts loss.  
 
T point out that:   
 G failed to file accounts on time;  
 There was a very complex structure with several changes of name between the  
parties involved in the scam;  
 G had numerous and extensive changes of directors as late as 2018.  
 
 
Ive considered all of this. But I remain of the opinion that Ts expectations of Moneycorps  
monitoring of G are too high. I dont agree that they were required to conduct detailed  
investigations into or have oversight of the activity of G as a matter of course - in the way  
that T seems to expect.  
 
T say that I havent looked at the fees, charges and spreads on currency deals effected by G  
for Moneycorp. They believe these are likely to be unusually profitable which they say would  
be evidence that Moneycorp should have suspected all was not as it should be. Ive  
reviewed Gs account a ctivity and maintain that (within the time period relevant to this  
complaint) there wasnt anything so unusual or indicative of potential fraud such that  
Moneycorp ought to have done more. And I consider the fees, charges and spreads to be a  
matter of comm ercial discretion for Moneycorp.  
 
T have highlighted a FCA final notice in which another regulated business B was fined. Part  
of the reasoning for this was the FCA said that business had failed to finalise reviews of its  
customer in a timely manner. T say  I havent identified Moneycorp as a high -risk entity. And  
they rely on the report from the FCA to support that B treated money service providers as  
high-risk clients. T have highlighted part of my provisional decision where Ive referred to the  
ongoing du e diligence by Moneycorp and say that this refers to standard due diligence,  
when it should have been enhanced due diligence alleging I have used the wrong test as  
well as erroneously restricting my consideration to 31 January 2019 until mid -March 2019 . 
 
Ive considered this. And obviously Moneycorps duties and obligations existed prior to 31  
January 2019. But even if I were to accept that Moneycorp ought to have applied enhanced  
due diligence due to the nature of Gs business, and that they didnt, thi s still wouldnt impact  
the outcome of this complaint. I dont think any reasonable level of diligence would have  
resulted in the conclusion that G were involved in a scam at that time or that this would have  
made a difference to Ts loss. Ill expand on my reasoning for this below.  
 
T have also referenced an expert report from an insolvency administrator and a dossier  
prepared by a group of those with losses relating to G. Ive seen copies of both of these  
which I thank T for providing. T points out that G hadnt bought property in some time. And  
they say because Moneycorp knew G were a property investment firm, this is something that  
should have been challenged. Again Im not persuaded Moneycorp should have don e more  
in the time period relevant to this complaint. And even if they had, property can be a long  
term investment, and Im not persuaded a period with no purchases would have resulted in  
the discovery of the alleged scam. And I also dont think Moneycorp would be required to  
involve itself in how another legal entity conducts its business. They arent there to police the  
directors commercial decision making, only to attempt to identify potential misappropriation  
of funds.  
 
Summary  
 
I understand T will be disappointed with my decision. But for me to fairly uphold this  
complaint, Id need to be persuaded that there was a failure that took place between 31  
January and mid -March 2019 and but for that failure, Ts loss would have been prevented. It  
isnt enough just for there to have been a failure, Id need to be able to conclude that the  failure fairly and reasonably caused the loss.  
 
So even if Im wrong with what Ive set out above and I were to accept all Ts submissions  
and to accept that there we re multiple failures regarding their monitoring of the account and  
relationship with G (which for clarity I dont). I still dont think this would have made a  
material difference. Given the sophistication and complexity of what went on, I dont think  
Money corp reasonably could have concluded G were operating a scam in 2019. The recent  
reports that T have submitted include links to further reports from auditing professionals and  
even they struggle to ascertain exactly what has gone on (in part due to incompl ete and  
insufficient records being available). So I find it implausible that any reasonable level of  
scrutiny that Moneycorp ought to have conducted would have impacted the loss T has  
suffered. Its most likely, had Moneycorp had concerns about the account,  they would have  
exercised their commercial discretion and exited their relationship with G. But there is  
evidence (some of which is included in the reports that T have referenced) that G had  
banking relationships with numerous providers in various territories. So, had Moneycorp  
ended their relationship with G, its likely G or those it was associated with wou ld have  
continued their activity through one of their other multiple accounts and T wouldnt have  
ended up in a meaningfully different position. In essence Im not persuaded that, even if they  
were accepted, the alleged failures can fairly and reasonably b e said to have caused the  
loss to T.  
 
Again, Im sorry T has suffered the loss they have. But as I dont think this is something  
Moneycorp are responsible for, Im not going to direct that they need to do anything further  
to resolve this complaint.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or  
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.  
 
 
 
Richard Annandale  
Ombudsma n 