DRN-4305243
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his account, despite being a longstanding 
customer. Hed like an explanation and the account reopened.
What happened
Mr T held accounts with Barclays, which he used regularly. But in January 2023 the bank 
wrote to him to say they no longer wished to provide him with banking services. They said 
theyd be closing his accounts in March 2023. They said he could still use his accounts up 
until then, but they didnt provide a reason for the closure.
Unhappy at the prospect of losing his bank account Mr T complained to Barclays. They 
responded to say they were closing his account in line with the terms and conditions. The 
accounts closed in March 2023, with Mr T transferring the balances elsewhere.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looking into what had 
happened but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. They said Barclays had closed 
his account in line with their terms and given the required notice. They said this was a 
commercial decision for the bank to make, and they werent required to give Mr T a reason 
for this. They didnt suggest Barclays do anything further.
But Mr T disagreed, saying there was a new law that means banks had to give reasons for 
closing a persons account. This didnt change the investigators mind, so the case was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When coming to my decision Ive taken in to account relevant legislation, industry guidelines 
and what I consider to be best practice. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive 
evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of 
reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Barclays have provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr T, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
The terms of Mr Ts account say that Barclays can close an account for any reasonable 
reason, so long as they provide at least two months notice. This is in line with the relevant 
regulations for providing accounts. Generally, this is considered long enough to arrange 
alternative banking facilities.
Ive seen the notification that was sent, and it did provide Mr T with the right notice period. I 
can also see he raised his complaint about the closure with Barclays before the end of the 
notice period  which tells me the notice was received and understood. And from the 
statements I can see Mr T still had full use of the account during the notice period.
I note though that Mr T held a basic account with Barclays. The regulations around basic 
accounts are slightly different in that a basic bank account can only be closed if certain 
conditions are met  including that the account holder has access to another payment 
account, that was opened after the basic account. I cant see that Barclays did enough to 
satisfy themselves this was the case. But I also see that Mr T has told us her transferred his 
funds to his other bank, which tells me he did have another payment account. So, I dont 
think theres a significant impact on Mr T here.
Barclays arent currently under any specific obligation to explain the reason for closing 
accounts to Mr T and have declined to do so here. Mr T has mentioned a new law to require 
banks to give consumers a reason for an account closure. But at this stage they are still 
proposals and arent current requirements. And if these changes to legislation do come to 
pass, theres no indication theyll be applied retrospectively. So, Im satisfied that its not 
unreasonable for Barclays to decline to discuss their reasoning with Mr T.
But Barclays have provided their reasons to our service in confidence. Having considered 
them Im satisfied they are reasonable. I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed I cant go into 
further detail, but Im satisfied that this was a legitimate commercial decision Barclays were 
entitled to make.
I understand Mr T would like to know more, and I can see his obvious frustration at not 
getting the information hed like. Ive reviewed the contact notes and considered Mr Ts 
comments on the customer service received. I can see he was regularly in touch with 
Barclays about this. But Im also mindful theyd given him the relevant information  that the 
account would be closed, the date of closure, and that they did not need to provide a reason. 
In the circumstances thats sufficient. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays have treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably. As such, Im 
not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman