DRN-2613111
The complaint
Mrs A complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has turned down a
claim she made on her travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs A has travel insurance as a benefit of her packaged bank account. She was on holiday.
She was due to take an internal flight to another city where a family reunion was planned.
The airline let Mrs A know her flight had been cancelled and it wouldnt be able to get her
onto a new flight in time for the reunion. It refunded Mrs A the cost of the flight itd cancelled.
So Mrs A booked a new flight with a different airline, which would ensure she arrived in time
for the reunion and could pick up existing transport bookings. It cost considerably more than
the original flight.
Mrs A called AIGs office and discussed whatd happened with one of its call handlers, as the
claims office was closed. She said she thought the original airline had cancelled her flight
because of poor weather. The call handler told Mrs A that weather would be something that
would usually be covered by AIGs policies. So he said he couldnt foresee any problems,
but that the claim would need to go through an approval process.
Mrs A made a claim to AIG for the cost of the new flight. AIG turned it down. It said the claim
wasnt covered by the policy terms. Mrs A wasnt happy with AIGs decision and she
complained. She said the call handler had told her the claim would be covered and if shed
known it wasnt, shed have cancelled the rest of her trip.
AIG didnt agree that its call handler had said the claim would be covered. Hed explained
that it needed to go through the claims process. It sent Mrs A a transcript of the call. Mrs A
remained unhappy with AIGs decision and asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the call
handler had confirmed Mrs As claim would be covered. Shed reviewed the policy terms and
didnt think there was any cover for internal flights. And shed noted Mrs A had understood
from some of her communications with AIG that the claim had been turned down because
shed already booked and paid for the new flight when shed called up. The investigator
explained this wasnt the case  the claim hadnt been paid because it wasnt covered by the
policy.
Mrs A disagreed. She said when she called AIG there was no suggestion that a flight which
formed part of her holiday wouldnt be covered. She felt the call handler had been poorly
trained and shouldve known internal flights werent covered. She said if shed been correctly
informed that the flight wasnt covered, shed have cancelled the rest of her plans and
abandoned her trip. 
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint explaining why I thought it would be 
fair and reasonable for AIG to settle Mrs As claim. 
My first provisional decision 
I issued my first provisional decision on 13 August 2020. In summary, whilst I didnt
think Mrs As claim was strictly covered by the terms of her policy, I thought a strict
interpretation of the policy terms wouldnt result in a fair outcome in this case. I thought most
policyholders would have a reasonable expectation that their claim would be covered. So I
thought it would be fair for AIG to pay Mrs As claim less the refund shed received from her 
original airline.
AIG disagreed. It provided a detailed response. I summarised its key arguments:
The policy cover for missed departure isnt against the industry standard. So it
doesnt agree that the fact missed internal flights arent covered is a significant point
that should be drawn to a policyholders attention at the point of sale;
Insurance policies differ in line with the risks insurers consider acceptable. If itd been
the underwriters intention to cover missed connections, this wouldve either been
included in the policy or reference to the international departure point wouldve been
removed;
The policy terms and conditions are clear and not misleading in any way as to the
cover it provides;
The policys sold on a non-advised basis and neither the seller nor insurer would be
aware of a policyholders travel plans. Its a policyholders responsibility to make sure
the policy is right for them and their plans  it isnt fair to hold an insurer responsible
for paying a claim, when a policyholders failed to do so;
It had reviewed a number of policies across the market. Some policies provided the
same missed departure as its own policy. Some policies covered missed connections
and some didnt. But none explained that internal flights werent covered because the
things that were covered were included in the policy;
It maintained that given these reasons, its stance was fair.
I got in touch with AIG informally to further expand on the reasons why I still thought Mrs As
claim should be paid, which I set out in my second provisional decision. AIG still disagreed 
and in summary, it said:
The policy doesnt cover Mrs As circumstances and in the spirit of treating all
customers fairly, it couldnt agree to settle the claim informally;
It has a duty to consider claims correctly and fairly in line with the policy terms and
conditions;
The policy is specifically designed to provide cover for missed departures affecting
the outward or inward final departure point. In this case, Mrs As final departure point
was from New York and she hadnt missed this flight.
My second provisional decision
I issued my second provisional decision on 1 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
said:
First, Id like to reassure AIG that in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Ive considered the very specific facts of the case. My 
decision isnt intended to set any precedent and isnt intended to set out an approach to 
cases of this type.
As I acknowledged in my first provisional decision, I accept that this claim is strictly not
covered by the terms and conditions of Mrs As policy. I dont think that AIG made any
technical mistake in applying the terms of the contract to the claim to turn it down. I alsoacknowledge the regulators rules require insurers to treat their customers fairly. So I can
understand why AIG considers it might be treating other policyholders unfairly if it settles this
particular claim.
But it remains the case that I can step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if
Im satisfied it produces an unfair and unreasonable result. So Ive reconsidered the terms of
the policy and the specific circumstances of Mrs As complaint.
Section D of the policy sets out Missed departure cover. The policy says:
What you are covered for
We will pay up to £1500 for the reasonable extra costs of travel and accommodation you
need to arrive at your booked destination if you cannot reach the final international departure
point on the outward or return journey from or to the United Kingdom because:
- Public transport servicesfail due to poor weather conditions; a strike, industrial
action or a mechanical breakdown.
Public transport is defined as: Bus, coach, ferry, sea vessel or train which operates
according to a published timetable.
Theres no dispute that Mrs As original flight from one American city to another was
cancelled by the airline due to poor weather on 19 June 2019. From there, she was due to
travel on to another city from where she was due to fly home on 5 July 2019.
I accept that a plane doesnt fall within AIGs definition of public transport. But its clear that
Mrs As flight was cancelled due to poor weather. This meant she was unable to continue
with her journey as planned. Its also clear that unless she was able to arrange onward
transport; she wouldnt have been in a position to catch her pre-booked return flight to the
UK a couple of weeks later.
It seems to me that if Mrs A had booked a train, bus or coach to travel to the family reunion,
which was cancelled due to the same poor weather which led to the cancellation of her flight;
policy liability wouldve engaged. She wouldve still needed to make alternative
arrangements to get to her final departure point so she could fly home, but I think AIG
wouldve been liable for these costs up to a limit of £1500. These costs couldve exceeded
the relatively low amount Mrs A is now claiming. So I think it seems unfair that Mrs As new
flight costs arent covered, despite the cancellation of her booked flight being out of her
control and for an insured reason, simply because of the method of transport she chose to
book.
In these particular circumstances, I still think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for AIG
to pay Mrs As claim, less the refund she received from her original airline, together with
annual interest of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
AIG still didnt agree with my provisional findings. Again, it provided a detailed response, 
which Ive summarised below:
It maintained that it disagreed for the reasons it had given previously, but it also 
referred to the reasoning Id relied on in my provisional decision;
It set out the timeline of events in case there had been any confusion;
Mrs A had spoken to one of its travel assistance agents whod told her that he didnt 
see any problem with the claim, but that it would need to go through the claims 
approval process. This means he didnt provide any definitive confirmation that the 
claim would be paid;Its clear that the travel delay section of the policy only relates to the final departure 
point from or to the UK;
It felt Mrs A had provided contradictory information about her claim. It considers the 
sole reason she didnt take the flight her original airline had offered her was because 
she didnt want to miss the family reunion which had been planned. She wouldnt 
have been in a position to abandon her trip, because shed have still needed to get to 
the third location to get her flight home;
Theres no evidence that Mrs A wouldve missed her final flight home if shed taken 
the alternative flight offered to her by her original airline. So the cancellation of the 
first flight had no bearing on her ability to catch her flight home. The scheduled return 
flight was 14 days after Mrs A wouldve arrived in the second city if shed taken the 
flight that had been offered to her;
It wouldnt necessarily have paid out under section D if Mrs As cancelled trip had 
been using a defined method of public transport. It would only have done so if she 
hadnt been able to reach her final departure point in time. But it hadnt been asked to 
consider whether the cancelled flight wouldve impacted on Mrs A being able to make 
her pre-booked return flight. Based on the evidence it had seen though, it appeared 
that Mrs A had been planning to hire a car to get to the third city. So the cancellation 
of the internal flight had no impact on her ability to return home;
It appreciated that I didnt intend to set a precedent. But it felt the regulators rules 
under which we operate should mean I reconsider whats fair and reasonable in this 
case, as it wouldnt be fair to other policyholders; and given the policy wording, if this 
claim is paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I appreciate all that AIG has said, I still think this complaint should be 
upheld and Ill explain why.
AIG has referred to the rules under which we operate, which are called the DISP rules. One 
of these rules require me to make a decision which I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of a complaint. Im not bound by the strict legal position and as Ive 
explained, Im able to depart from it in the particular circumstances of individual complaints 
where Im satisfied it results in an unfair outcome. Ive also explained that this decision isnt 
intended to set a precedent for future complaints  or to tell AIG how I think it should deal 
with future claims of this nature. This is a case which turns very much on its own facts.
Id like to reassure AIG that I havent made any finding that the travel assistance agent led 
Mrs A to think that her claim would be covered. I think the agent made it clear that the flight 
costs would need to be considered by the claims team and there wasnt any agreement 
during that call that a claim would be paid.
Its also clear that Section D doesnt strictly cover Mrs As claim. Flights dont fall within the 
definition of public transport. But it remains the case that Mrs A was due to fly into one city 
and then travel onto another from where shed catch her return flight to the UK. Her flight 
was cancelled as the result of poor weather, which did impact on her ability to travel as 
planned. I think the policy wording is drafted broadly enough to suggest that if Mrs A had 
been travelling to the second city by train, coach or bus, which were cancelled or delayed 
due to poor weather; then she wouldve been covered for the costs she incurred in ensuring 
she could reach her final departure point. So I think its fair and reasonable to consider Mrs 
As claim under this section of the policy.AIG points to the fact that there was a period of around two weeks between the cancelled 
flight and Mrs As booked final return flight. Ive considered this. But I think section D has 
been drafted widely enough here that it appears to include costs which a policyholder has to 
incur to get to their final departure point, even if those costs arent incurred immediately prior 
to their departure back to the UK. 
I appreciate that AIG considers that Mrs A would always have chosen to book a new flight 
and incur additional expenses so that she could get to her family party in time and Ive 
thought carefully about this. However, Ive also considered Mrs As email to AIG dated 6 July 
2019. This stated that Mrs A had booked the last available seat on the new flight. She said 
that flights were disappearing and prices were rocketing. She also seems to have been 
concerned that if she didnt reach her destination as planned, she wouldnt have been able 
to collect her pre-booked car hire in time. This means its possible that Mrs A still wouldve 
needed to make alternative arrangements to reach her final departure point, ultimately as the 
result of poor weather. And the possible costs she couldve incurred in doing so may well 
have exceeded the amount she paid for a new flight.
For these reasons, and for the reasons I gave in my second provisional decision, I still think 
the fair outcome in this case is for AIG to settle Mrs As claim, less the refund she received 
from the original airline, together with interest of 8% simple, from the date of claim until the 
date of settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct American International Group UK Limited to settle Mrs As claim for her flight, less 
the refund she received from the original airline, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
AIG must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman