DRN-4394255
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (who Ill call Sainsburys) sent correspondence 
about her debt to the wrong email address and that they didnt inform her a payment plan 
had ended.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the problems Mrs M has experienced and I would agree with the 
investigator that Sainsburys need to take some action to put things right for her. But having 
read the evidence provided I think the redress the investigator has recommended is fair in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Information Commissioners Office regulates compliance to data protection laws in the 
UK. It has a number of powers including the power to order businesses to comply with data 
protection laws and to fine them. But, unlike us, it doesnt have the power to award 
compensation to consumers whove suffered financial loss or have been caused distress 
and inconvenience by the way a financial business has handled their personal information.
The main data protection laws are the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the 
Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA). They set out a number of obligations on businesses when 
they use their customers personal information. For example, they are required to use the 
information fairly and lawfully, keep it secure and to delete it when its no longer needed. 
Here Sainsburys accept that they didnt delete an old email address they had for Mrs M. An 
email about a potential default was, therefore, sent to her ex-partner and was shared with 
family members. 
Mrs M has explained that she suffers from several medical conditions. I wont list them here, 
our investigator has already set them out, but I have read the file and I can understand, and 
think its likely, that the conditions Mrs M complains of would have been exacerbated by 
Sainsburys error. Sainsburys havent been able to provide evidence that they told Mrs M 
that her payment plan would end in December 2022, she continued to make payments as 
agreed under that plan, so I think its likely she wasnt aware it had ended until April 2023. 
Mrs M was already in financial difficulty and was trying to do something about it, so it must 
have been upsetting to hear that news and even more upsetting to realise that details of her 
financial difficulty had been shared with others. Sainsburys have acknowledged the data 
breach and have offered to pay Mrs M £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Theyve also been prepared to refund interest and fees incurred between January 
and June 2023 which I think remedies the financial impact of Mrs M not being aware her 
plan had come to an end. 
Putting things right
Taking all of the above into account I think Sainsburys should pay Mrs M a further £100 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience that shes experienced here. Im aware Mrs M 
would like Sainsburys to make a more significant payment, but having taken all of the 
circumstances into account I think that is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Sainsburys Bank Plc to 
pay Mrs M £400 (less anything theyve already paid) to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of their error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman