DRN-2806639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) in respect of its offer of
settlement for their claim, and for a failure to inform them that an application had been made
to court. Mr and Mrs B want Ageas to pay their claim at the value awarded by the judge in
their civil claim, and compensation for their distress and inconvenience
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were previously landlords, and until 2016 let their property to a tenant (T).
They held landlords insurance with Ageas which included legal expenses cover. The legal 
expenses cover was underwritten by a third-party insurer. 
In 2016, the relationship between Mr and Mrs B and T broke down and Mr and Mrs B
instructed their legal provider (A), via their broker, to begin possession proceedings to
evict T.
T left the property in April 2017, and Mr and Mrs B re-took possession of the property. They
noted that the property was not in the condition they would expect, and they submitted a
claim to Ageas for damage to their property.
Ageas appointed a Loss Adjuster who prepared a report in mid-2017. That report considered
that the damage which had been sustained was predominantly from wear and tear and
recommended declining the claim.
Ageas declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs broker then instructed A to pursue T for the damage to the property.
A claim was issued and, when T did not attend court, summary judgment was awarded. This
was in the sum of around £9,990 for the damage, plus interest and around £1150 for legal
costs. In the judgment, the judge made clear that some items claimed for were not included
as they were damaged due to wear and tear, which should be expected when renting a
property.
T applied to court for a time to pay order. Mr and Mrs B say that this was handled by A, and 
that A did not advise Mr and Mrs B that an application had been made.
The court allowed T time to pay, and an order for repayment at the rate of £10 per month
was made.
It is unclear if T has subsequently been making repayments, but these would be first directed 
towards paying the legal costs to A. 
Mr and Mrs B then approached Ageas to consider their claim again.
Ageas considered the claim, and made an offer of settlement to Mr and Mrs B. Their offer 
was for £2500, minus the deposit of £950 which Mr and Mrs B already held. Ageas detailed 
the items which Mr and Mrs B had claimed for and explained that, in its opinion, the majority 
of these items were damaged by wear and tear. Ageas accepted that some damage, 
including damage to a kitchen unit, bath panel, flooring, a blind cord and electrical heaters 
could have been caused accidentally and it agreed to pay for these, plus associated labour 
costs.
Mr and Mrs B were not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and considered that the complaint ought to
be dismissed. This was because it involved issues which appeared to have been the subject
of court proceedings where an award had been made to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I have subsequently made some enquiries of the parties into the background, and then 
issued a provisional decision. In that provisional decision I explained that I did not think that 
the complaint ought to be dismissed, but that I also did not think that the complaint ought to 
be upheld.
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been given the 
opportunity to comment. 
Ageas has responded, making clear that it was not involved in the legal proceedings at all 
and that the legal cover was underwritten by a third-party insurer. It therefore disagreed with 
one of my provisional conclusions which was that the policy authorised Ageas to continue 
litigation and that it was not obliged to update Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B have also responded, confirming that the legal proceedings were completely 
undertaken by A, and Ageas was not involved in this process. They also made comments 
that they feel there has been a breakdown of communication among the parties involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the clarifying comments from the parties, especially those making clear that the 
legal expenses cover was underwritten by a third-party insurer rather than Ageas. 
The parties have not commented on my decision that it is fair to consider the complaint, so I 
adopt my decision not to dismiss the complaint and to go on to consider the merits as set out 
in my provisional decision. 
As regards the merits of the complaint, the complaint included two points. These were that 
Mr and Mrs B felt that the offer of settlement was inadequate as it was for a lower amount 
than the award made by the court. That also felt that they were not kept informed of the legal 
process, including the tenants application for time to pay, which meant that  they were not 
able to oppose the application and it will take longer for them to recover the judgment award. 
In respect of the first point of complaint, I set out in my provisional decision that the approach 
Ageas had taken to calculating its settlement offer was reasonable, and I had not seen 
evidence to challenge the settlement offer, or the rationale behind the settlement offer, which 
Ageas arrived at. No further evidence or arguments have been put forward in respect of this and so I remain of 
this view. I adopt my provisional decision and reasons for not upholding this part of the 
complaint as my final decision. 
In respect of the remaining part of the complaint, regarding whether Ageas had failed to 
inform Mr and Mrs B of the application for time to pay, the parties have now clarified my 
understanding. 
My provisional decision noted that it was not clear how this application had proceeded, or if 
Ageas had been involved at all, but that in any event Mr and Mrs Bs policy with Ageas 
authorised Ageas to undertake litigation in relation to the policy on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf, for 
the benefit of Ageas. I therefore concluded that, even if Ageas had conducted the litigation 
and had not informed Mr and Mrs B of the application, Ageas was not under an obligation to 
keep them informed, and so there was no evidence that Ageas had done anything wrong. 
Since my provisional decision, it has become clear that the litigation was conducted entirely 
by A, and the legal expenses cover was underwritten by another provider. On that basis, it is 
clear that Ageas was not involved in the proceedings and had no responsibility for the way 
the litigation was conducted, or how Mr and Mrs B were kept informed. Consequently, I am 
satisfied that Ageas did nothing wrong in this respect. 
Overall, I remain of the view that I have not seen evidence to support a complaint about 
Ageas, and so I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and contained in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman