DRN-2059008
The complaint
Ms D complains that a car supplied to her through a hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2017 Ms D was supplied with a car and entered into a lease agreement with Lex. The 
agreement was for a duration of 36 months with an annual mileage allowance of 10,000  
miles.
In her current complaint, Ms D says shes unhappy that her previous complaint was closed 
without the faults with the car being addressed. Shes unhappy she wasnt told that the 
complaint had been closed. And shes unhappy about the information shes received 
following her information disclosure request.
In response, Lex said that Ms Ds previous complaint was closed because there were no 
faults found with the car. It said it had asked Ms D to contact them with details of the faults 
she said hadnt been addressed but hadnt heard back from her. In relation to the information 
request, Lex said it had provided accurate information.
Ms D wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She says the car has 
multiple faults which havent been resolved, the most serious being the engine losing power 
whilst driving.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that this service couldnt 
consider Ms Ds previous complaints. She thought Lex had handled Ms Ds complaint fairly 
and said that without evidence that the car had faults, she was unable to say that it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ms D didnt agree. She queried why her previous complaints couldnt be considered and said 
it was all part of an ongoing complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain what Im able to look at here. I can see that Ms D raised a complaint 
about the quality of the car in 2017 and 2019. Lex issued final response letters on 17 
September 2017 and 2 April 2019. This service can only consider a complaint if its referred 
within 6 months of the final response. Here, Ms D brought her complaint to this service on 29 
January 2020. This means I can only consider the complaints Ms D has raised since August 
2019, as the corresponding final response letters for those complaints are within 6 months of 
her bringing her complaint to this service.
Thats not to say I dont appreciate that Ms D is unhappy about things that have happened 
since 2017. But the relevant rules and time limits means that Im unable to consider things 
which happened before August 2019.
In considering Ms Ds complaint, Ive had regard to relevant law. Here, that includes the 
Consumer rights Act 2015. This says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. It 
includes fitness for purpose and durability.
I think its fair to characterise Ms Ds complaint as a claim that faults shes reported havent 
been addressed, her last complaint was closed prematurely and as a result of arrears on the 
account theres a negative marker on her credit file.
Im aware that Ive summarised the complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
in my own words. Im not responding to every point made by the parties but have concentred 
on what I think are the issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Ive reviewed all the information provided. Lots of it relates to complaint made before August 
2019, so I cant consider it.
In deciding whether the car is of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant law. 
Here, the relevant law says that after 6 months from the point of supply, its up to the 
consumer to show that any faults were present or developing at the point of supply. An 
independent engineers report can help with this. But in this case, I havent been provided 
with any inspection reports or diagnostic reports.
I appreciate that Ms D has provided photos of warning lights. But the photos on their own 
arent enough evidence to show that a fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive thought about whether Lex acted fairly in its handling of Ms Ds previous complaint. I can 
see that when Ms D raised a complaint in August 2019, the car was taken to the garage for 
inspection but despite tests, no faults were found. When the car was returned to Ms D in 
September 2019, she remained unhappy so Lex said it would arrange an independent 
inspection. This took place in October 2019. A tyre pressure error was found which the 
engineer rectified by inflating the tyre and re-setting the error message. The engineer 
concluded that there were no faults. 
Ms D wasnt happy with the inspection so Lex asked her to identify the faults she said were 
affecting the car, and that once she had done this it would organise another, longer 
inspection. I can see that Lex requested this information from Ms D on three occasions 
between November and December 2019 but I cant see that Ms D ever provided the 
information. I understand from Ms d that she was ill during this time and thought she had 
until January 2020 to respond. However, based on the information Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that Lex said anything which gave Ms d reasons to think that she had until 
January to respond. It had been chasing the information since November 2019 so I don 
think, in the absence of any response from Ms D, that it was unreasonable for Lex to close 
the complaint in January 2020. And even though it closed the complaint, it re-offered the 
further inspection when Ms D contacted them later in January 2020, which I think was fair.
In relation to Ms Ds concerns that information hasnt been disclosed to her in response to 
her information request, Im satisfied that Lex responded appropriately. I understand that Ms 
D feels that there is some information which hasnt been provided but Im not persuaded that 
this omission has prevented this service from looking at things or that it would change the 
overall outcome.
Ms D has raised a concern about her credit file. I can see that Ms D missed some payments 
in or around September 2019. I can also see that she spoke to Lex more recently about 
putting payments on hold whilst this service investigated her complaint. Despite agreeing to put payments on hold, Lex didnt do this. It acknowledged the error and has amended the 
credit file from January 2020. However, in relation to the missed payments prior to January 
2020, Im satisfied that these have been reported correctly by Lex as late payments. So, I 
dont think Lex need to amend the credit file any further.
In summary, Im unable to say that Lex has done anything wrong. Based on what Ive seen, 
it responded fairly and reasonably to Ms Ds complaint. It has gone beyond what Id expect it 
to do by offering inspections when it was Ms Ds responsibility to prove the faults.
Under the relevant legislation, its up to Ms D to show that the car had faults at the point of 
supply. There isnt enough evidence to show that there are faults with the car. Without this 
evidence, Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. So I wont be asking 
Lex to do anything. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman