DRN-4337283
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Wakam cancelled his motor insurance policy mid-term.
What happened
Mr R had a private hire motor insurance policy with Wakam that was due to end on              
31 May 2023. Wakam wrote to him to tell him they were going to cancel it on 21 April 2023 
due to claims he had made. Mr R complained about this and provided information on the 
claims he thought he had made. Wakam issued a final response to Mr R telling him they 
would not alter their decision and cancelled his policy. Mr R asked us to consider his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators upheld Mr Rs complaint. She said Wakam had not provided 
sufficient evidence to show Mr R no longer met their eligibility criteria in respect of claims 
made. She said they should pay Mr R £200 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of what she thought was Wakams unreasonable 
approach in cancelling his policy. 
Mr R didnt respond to the investigators view. Wakam didnt agree with it. They maintained 
they were entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy, as there was a claim outstanding against him on 
which they would definitely pay out more than £20,000. So far as they were concerned, this 
meant he no longer met their eligibility criteria. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that the evidence Wakam have provided doesnt show Mr R no 
longer met their criteria. This refers to claims where payments have been made and not 
claims which have a reserve against them, but no payment has been made. I appreciate 
Wakams system takes into account reserve amounts, but this doesnt make it appropriate or 
fair and it is not in line with what their criteria actually says. 
In any event, I do not consider the fact Mr R has made a claim or claims during the policy 
term, whether amount(s) have been paid or not would be sufficient for me to say it was fair 
for Wakam to cancel his policy. It is not one of the reasons listed in the policy for cancellation 
by Wakam. And, although the list isnt exhaustive, I do not consider it fair and reasonable for 
an insurer to cancel a policy mid-term simply because of claims experience. The insurer has 
committed to cover the risk of claims up to the policy end date and the fact someone makes 
one or more claims should not mean the insurer escapes their commitment to continue 
providing cover. 
It therefore follows that I think Mr Rs complaint against Wakam should be upheld. I agree 
with our investigator that Wakam should pay him £200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. They should also remove any record of the cancellation from their own 
systems and any central databases they have placed it on. This is because it should never 
have ended up on record in the first place on the basis Mr Rs policy should never have been 
cancelled. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint and make Wakam 
pay him £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Wakam must also remove 
any record of the cancellation of Mr Rs policy from their own systems and any central 
databases they have placed it on.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Wakam and order them to do what Ive set out above in 
the Putting things right section..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman