DRN-4170492
The complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) completed ineffective repairs when he made 
a subsidence claim under his buildings insurance policy. He says this led to his property 
suffering from subsidence for a second time. And the reappearance of crack damage to his 
property led to a mortgage application being refused. 
Any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr B has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by Aviva. He made a claim on 
the policy when cracks appeared in his home. The claim was accepted and following a 
period of monitoring, a hydration channel and root barrier was installed across his propertys 
rear garden. The following year, internal remedial repairs were carried out over a period of 
several months. 
In December 2021, Mr B was given a Certificate of Structural Adequacy, but eight months 
later, crack damaged reappeared in the same places.
Aviva attended and agreed further works were required. Mr B says he was told by Aviva that 
more robust above ground strengthening repairs should have taken place when the damage 
was first repaired. And so, he considers the inconvenience and distress he and his family 
experienced for a second time to have been avoidable. 
The month before the damage reappeared, Mr B had applied for an equity release loan. But 
his application was later declined because of the reappearing crack damage to his property. 
He complained to Aviva saying due to its failure to complete effective repairs the first time, 
his financial situation had been negatively impacted - saying hed missed out on lower 
interest rates, he hadnt had the benefit of the equity release, and had been required to pay 
a broker fee for an equity release loan which had solely failed because of the crack damage 
to his property.
Aviva said the declinature of his loan application was too remote for it to be held responsible 
for any resulting financial detriment. And in doing so refused to cover the broker fee Mr B 
had paid. It said its expert had said the secondary subsidence wasnt foreseeable, and so, 
whilst it recognised Mr B had been inconvenienced and distressed by the situation, it didnt 
consider it to be at fault. It however, said it would pay £1,000 to recognise the difficulties Mr 
B had experienced, though it said doing so was not an admission of liability.  
Mr B didnt accept Avivas offer and brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and upheld it. He was satisfied Aviva hadnt completed a lasting and effective 
repair when it carried out repairs to Mr Bs property during his first subsidence claim, and so, 
was satisfied the distress and inconvenience he experienced for a second time was 
avoidable. 
He said Mr B had also lost out on the opportunity of his equity release loan. He said Aviva 
should reimburse the broker fee Mr B paid following his failed application as the declinature 
was attributable to the crack damage  which he considered Aviva to be accountable for. He 
was, however, satisfied Avivas offer of £1,000 compensation to be in line with awards this 
Service would make in the circumstances. 
In response Mr B stressed his main concern was that he didnt consider the compensation to 
reasonably reflect the impact the situation had on him and his family. And how this had come 
at a time when he was experiencing health concerns himself. As Aviva didnt reply to the 
Investigators view, and Mr B disagreed with the outcome, the complaint has been passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. Before 
I do, its worth clarifying that Im only considering those issues addressed in Avivas final 
response letter. Im aware Mr B has concerns about how the latest remedial works have 
been carried out, but as our Investigator explained, before we can consider these issues, 
hed need to raise them with Aviva in the first instance. 
Did Aviva carry out a lasting and effective repair?
The key issue here is whether Aviva completed a lasting and effective repair when it carried 
out repairs to Mr Bs property following his first claim for subsidence damage. Im not 
persuaded Aviva did and Ill explain why. 
It's not in dispute the damage reoccurred a short while after the repairs were completed  
Aviva refers to the damage reappearing eight months after the repairs were carried out. Its 
evident from this that steps Aviva took to stop the subsidence wasnt successful. So, on its 
face, it appears Avivas repairs were not effective and lasting, as wed expect.  
Aviva has said the damage that reoccurred wasnt foreseeable. And there are occasions 
where this may be the case, but here, Im not persuaded Aviva has evidenced this. I say this 
because when the latest crack damage was surveyed, Aviva identified that substantial 
repairs would be required to deal with the inherent weakness of the property. And that 
there was a need to tie the building together to address this. Aviva hasnt shown that the 
inherent weakness was a new issue or one which occurred between the first repairs being 
completed and the reappearance of the crack damage. And given the weakness was 
inherent  which to me suggests it relates to the core structure of the building - Im more 
persuaded Aviva ought to have identified this  and the necessary repairs to deal with it  
when it first carried out repairs to Mr Bs property. So, Im satisfied this was a failing on 
Avivas part.
I also note the equity loan providers surveyor said the the current cracking results from the 
choice of superstructure repair adopted. This suggests it was Avivas choice of repair that 
led to the cracking occurring/reoccurring. And Aviva hasnt provided evidence to counter this 
beyond saying the damage wasnt foreseeable.
So, for these reasons, Im satisfied the damage reoccurred because a lasting and effective 
repair hadnt been carried out by Aviva in the first instance. 
Distress and inconvenience As Im not persuaded Aviva carried out a lasting and effective repair, Im satisfied the 
distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced as a result of having repairs completed for a 
second time was avoidable. And no doubt, the weeks of preventable upheaval, stress and 
inconvenience was felt more greatly by Mr B owing to his personal circumstances.  
This, coupled with the disappointment and frustration he would have felt at having had his 
equity release loan declined, satisfies me compensation is warranted here. Having reviewed 
the circumstances of this complaint, I am satisfied Avivas offer of £1,000 is in line with 
awards this Service makes. Whilst I appreciate Mr B doesnt consider this to be sufficient, I 
am only considering events relating to the reappearance of the crack damage following 
Avivas repairs in 2020/2021  which is the complaint that was brought to this Service.   
Equity release loan 
I agree with our Investigators position that it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Aviva 
responsible for increased interest rates Mr B may be subject to should he make another 
application for an equity release loan. I say this because the general rise in interest rates is 
outside of Avivas control, theres the possibility rates my fall in the future, Mr B might take 
out a loan on different terms, or with another provider. Simply, there are too many variables 
for me to conclude Aviva should be held accountable for this.  
But I have seen evidence which satisfies me Mr Bs equity release loan was declined solely 
because of the crack damage to his property  which reappeared after his loan application 
had been made and was in the process of being reviewed. Because Im persuaded the 
damage reoccurred because Aviva hadnt carried out a lasting and effective repair, I 
consider it reasonable to direct Aviva to reimburse Mr B the cost of his broker fee (subject to 
proof of payment) because were it not for the crack damage, it appears his loan application 
would have been approved  and this broker fee wouldve resulted in the receipt of the loan.   
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
reimburse Mr B the broker fee he paid following the declinature of his equity release 
loan (subject to proof of payment). Aviva must pay simple interest at 8% a year from 
the date Mr B made the payment to the date it is refunded. 
Pay Mr B £1,000 compensation. Aviva must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman