DRN-3099553
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society used the wrong address when making a 
CHAPS payment.
 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr C instructed Nationwide to make a payment to a merchant on his behalf. 
Mr C has told us he wanted to pay for a building service. Nationwide processed the payment 
by CHAPS. Mr C says that the wrong business address for the merchant was used by 
Nationwides branch staff when completing the instruction. 
The payment was received by the merchant but Mr C later asked Nationwide for help getting 
his money back. Mr C has told us the merchant scammed him as the quality of the work it 
completed was poor. Mr C subsequently complained that the wrong business address for the 
merchant was used in the CHAPS instruction. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint so he referred it to this service. An investigator 
looked at Mr Cs complaint but thought the issues raised related to the work carried out by 
the merchant, not an error by Nationwide. Mr C asked to appeal and said Nationwide had 
used the wrong address which was illegal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain that we can only look at Nationwides actions in this case and that we 
decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with the 
quality of work carried out by the merchant, but I can only tell Nationwide to refund his 
payment if its made a mistake or acted unfairly. 
Mr C says the address used on the CHAPS payment instruction was wrong. But Mr C asked 
Nationwide to make a payment and it did that. Mr C isnt asking for a refund because the 
merchant didnt receive his payment. Hes asked for a refund because hes unhappy with the 
quality of the merchants work. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I havent found anything that 
shows Nationwide failed to follow his instructions to pay the merchant or that it treated him 
unfairly. 
Our investigator provided details of other organisations that may be able to assist Mr C. I 
leave it to him to decide how to proceed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im satisfied Nationwide paid the merchant in line with 
his instructions. As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it 
to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman