DRN-2796278
The complaint
Mr M complaints that Tide Platform Limited (Tide) blocked and closed his account, without 
warning and without explaining its reasons. And returned £23,695 of the balance to the 
original senders, instead of releasing it to him.
Mr M brings this complaint on behalf of his company, Z Limited. 
What happened
On 19 October 2020, Tide blocked Mr Ms account while it undertook a review. Mr M made 
asked Tide what was happening on several occasions, but Tide didnt explain its actions 
further or commit to a timeframe, so Mr M complained. On 2 November, Tide wrote to Mr M 
confirming it had completed its review. It said it could no longer provide banking services for 
Mr M and asked him to provide bank account details, so it could return the account balance 
to him.
On 13 November, Tide emailed Mr M to say it was returning £30,660 to him, and that the 
remaining £3,495 would be returned to its original source, as part of a legal banking recall.
On 17 November, Tide sent Mr M another email, saying it could not complete the funds 
return as it needed to carry out a further review. After Tide completed its second review, it 
returned £10,910 to Mr M, and sent payments of £3,945 and £19,750 back to the original 
sources.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, saying he had experienced financial difficulties 
because of the block and because Tide didnt return his full balance to him. He said he 
wanted Tide to pay him the £19,750 and £3,945 it had returned to source.
Our investigator was satisfied Tide was entitled to block and close Mr Ms account, and that 
it completed its review in a reasonable time. She understood why Mr M felt aggrieved, but 
said Tide was entitled to the funds to source instead of sending them back to him. 
She did say Tide should have been clearer in its communications, because it only told Mr M 
the £19,750 was to be returned as part of a legal banking recall a month after it could have 
done. But she said Tide had offered £75 in compensation, which she thought was a fair 
offer.
Mr M didnt accept what our investigator said, so he asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr M, I would need to be satisfied that Tide acted 
unfairly or took action it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied that Tide acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr 
Ms account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
govern the relationship between Tide and Mr M.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Tide acted promptly or caused any unnecessary 
delays. The first review lasted just under four weeks: from 19 October to 13 November. 
Having reviewed the evidence Tide has provided our service, Im satisfied it acted promptly 
in completing its review. I can see it had information to process and review and I dont 
consider there to have been any undue delays.
Mr M was unhappy that Tide told him it would release most of his money, only to then carry 
out a further review which resulted in a further £19,750 being returned to source, instead of 
to Mr M. But again, Im satisfied Tide was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when it carried out the second review. And that it was entitled to return the money to source, 
instead of Mr M.
I accept that it could have been clearer with Mr M when it told him why it had returned the 
second lot, but Im satisfied £75 is sufficient compensation to put matters right for Mr M. So I 
wont ask Tide to increase its offer.
I know Mr M is frustrated that he wasnt given a proper explanation as to why is accounts 
were frozen and the money returned to source. And that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. But under the terms and conditions, Tide doesnt have to give a reason for doing 
so. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by not giving Mr M this information when he 
complained.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account  which both Tide and Mr M had to comply with 
 say that Tide could close the account immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances. 
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied Tide acted in accordance 
with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ms account. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably say Tide did anything wrong by closing Mr Ms account.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Tide must pay Mr M £75.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman