DRN-2912848
The complaint
The estate of Mrs F (the estate) complains that Quilter Investment Platform Limited 
(Quilter) told it the value of the assets Mrs F held would be backdated to the date she 
passed. And, that no charges would be applied when they were encashed. However, Quilter 
paid the current value of the funds when the investment was encashed. The estate also 
complains Quilter delayed the claim when they asked for all executors to sign the claim form.
What happened
Mrs F passed in late December 2019. There were initially three executors of Mrs Fs estate 
but one of the executors decided not to act. Quilter sent a valuation to the estate on 15 
February 2020 and explained the process for a claim to be made. A representative for the 
estate called Quilter on 19 February and he was told all the executors needed to sign the 
claim form, or the executor could complete a form to renounce his executorship. The 
representative said the executor would sign the claim form. However, the estate later 
submitted the claim with a Grant of Probate dated 27 April in the name of the remaining two 
executors. 
A representative for the estate called Quilter on 4 May and was told that the value of the 
investment would be backdated to the day Mrs F passed, and Quilter quoted the value of the 
fund on that date. A few days later, when the claim form was received, Quilter surrendered 
the units within the investments using the current price and made the payment to the estate.
The estate complained to Quilter that there was a significant difference between the value of 
the funds on the date Mrs F passed, and the value of the units when they were encashed. 
The estate said it wouldnt have encashed the investment if Quilter hadnt told it the valuation 
was at the date Mrs F passed, and it wouldve held on to the investments as market values 
had fallen since December 2019. The estate also said Quilter had delayed the claim process 
by asking for all the executors to sign the claim form.
Quilter provided a final response to the complaint. They said they hadnt delayed the claim 
as it was a requirement for all the executors to sign the claim form and that the estate only 
sent a Grant of Probate on or after 4 May. They said that their letter of 15 February 
explained the value of the investments could fall as well as rise, but accepted theyd told the 
estate the value of the investments would be the value on the date Mrs F passed. Quilter 
apologised for the false expectation this caused but felt the estate wouldnt have waited for 
the fund values to recover before making the claim. Quilter offered to pay the estate £500 to 
reflect the impact of their error.
The estate wasnt happy with the response from Quilter and brought its complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked at what happened. Our investigator thought 
that Quilter acted reasonably in asking for all the executors named in the will to sign the 
claim form. And that they acted reasonably when they used the Grant of Probate dated 27 
April to resolve the claim. Our investigator noted Quilter had accepted they told the estate 
that the value used on encashment would be the value on the day Mrs F passed but thought 
it more likely than not the estate would still have encashed the investments when it did.
The estate didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides the 
complaint. The estate said it wouldnt have encashed the investment if it had known the 
value wasnt the value on the date Mrs F passed, and that one of the executors says theyve 
held other investments until the markets recovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my decision Id like to clarify that although one of my colleagues was asked 
to look at the complaint, she is presently out of the office and not expected to return for 
several months. So, the decision has been passed to me to consider. I can confirm Ive 
reviewed the complete case file, including the correspondence between my colleague, the 
estate and Quilter. I should also clarify that the view provided by our investigator referred to 
the business as Old Mutual, but they changed their name earlier this year to Quilter 
Investment Platforms Limited. This is the reason my final decision refers to Quilter and not 
Old Mutual, but these are the same business.
I will first consider the potential delay in the claim process. The letter Quilter sent to the 
estate on 15 February 2020 explained what documents they required to process a claim. At 
this time there was no Grant of Probate or anything that persuades me one had been 
applied for. In the call made by the estate on 19 February, after this letter had been received, 
Quilter explained that if the third executor didnt want to act they would require a completed 
renouncement form, or a Grant of Probate. I dont consider this is unreasonable, as a failure 
to obtain these documents would potentially leave Quilter, and the estate, open to a claim 
from the third executor at some point in the future. I consider its likely the estate decided to 
apply for a Grant of Probate in the names of the remaining executors, rather than all three 
signing the probate waiver form. And as this wasnt sent until early May, Im satisfied any 
delay wasnt caused by Quilter.
Ive looked at the encashment value Quilter paid, and I havent seen any evidence that there 
were any encashment charges applied at the time. There was a change of tax status for the 
fund as it was made up of individual savings accounts for Mrs F, and therefore there was a 
change to how the funds were taxed once Mrs F passed. Quilter explained this in their letter 
of 15 February.
Quilter havent disputed they told the estate on 4 May that the valuation of the funds would 
be backdated to the day Mrs F passed, so I wont be looking into this. However, what I will 
consider is what impact this had on the decision the estate made to encash the investment 
when it did. This is the crux of the complaint.
The probate valuation Quilter sent on 15 February explained the investments could go down 
as well as up, and that the encashment value may be different to that shown on the 
statement. The letter also told the estate the values werent guaranteed. When a 
representative of the estate called Quilter on 4 May he read this part of the letter out to 
Quilter, so Im satisfied the letter had been received. And that its likely the estate understood 
the value of the investment wasnt guaranteed. Indeed, when Quilter mistakenly told the 
estate the encashment value would be the value on the day Mrs F passed, the 
representative expressed some surprise that this was the case. 
The issue I must to consider here is whether it was reasonable for the estate to rely on what 
it was told on 4 May. The estate says that it wouldnt have encashed the investment if it had 
known the value was the current value and not the value when Mrs F passed. I have some 
empathy with this view. However, it seems the estate had been trying to make a claim since February. So, although there was a delay in the estate submitting the claim, it seems likely 
the decision to submit the claim had been made as early as February after the probate 
valuation letter dated 15 February had been received. And, in the telephone call on 4 May, 
Im persuaded the estate understood the probate valuation could go up or down.
The estate has confirmed that the only funds from Mrs Fs estate that remained uncashed 
were the funds held by Quilter. One of the executors has provided evidence theyd kept 
personal funds invested in another investment after receiving advice not to encash them 
because of market volatility at the time. However, Ive not seen any specific advice the 
estate received in relation to the funds it held at this time, so it seems reasonable for me to 
conclude the advice the executor referred to relates to their own individual investments, and 
not the estate. Ive seen the funds received from Quilter have been retained in a deposit 
account since May 2020.
Quilter created an expectation to the estate that it would receive more than it did, but when I 
balance up the evidence Ive already referred to, Im not persuaded this was the primary 
factor in the estate submitting the claim form in May 2020. The claim had already been 
prepared before the telephone call. And Im persuaded that even if the estate hadnt been 
given the wrong information it wouldnt have delayed the claim. I say this because the estate 
had received correspondence from Quilter explaining the value wasnt guaranteed. And I 
dont consider its fair and reasonable for me conclude that the information provided in the 
telephone call of 4 May should be considered the only information the estate received about 
the value. After listening to the telephone call Im persuaded the estate was expecting the 
valuation to be based on the current fund value until Quilter gave the incorrect information. 
But, I dont consider Quilter did anything wrong when they encashed the funds using the 
current price. So, Im satisfied the offer made by Quilter to reflect the impact the telephone 
call of 4 May had on the expectations of the estate was a reasonable one in the 
circumstances.
Ive seen that Quilter offered to pay the estate £500 to reflect the upset they caused by 
giving the wrong information about how the fund would be valued when paying out a claim. I 
consider that this fairly reflects the estate was expecting a larger sum than it received and 
the inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Quilter Investment Platform Limited should pay the estate of Mrs F 
the sum of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman