DRN-1988393
Complaint
A, a limited company, says that HSBC Bank Plc didnt do enough to assist when it was a 
victim of fraud and says that HSBC acted unfairly when it closed its account. A has been 
represented throughout by a director, Mr P.
Background
In June 2018, A was the victim of a scam. Mr P visited a branch of HSBC to ask it to make a 
payment to a client of A. The payment was for just under £44,000.
The payment was sent to an overseas account. The payment information that Mr P gave to a 
member of staff in branch was taken from an email that he believed had been sent by the 
client. It had been sent at the last minute and said that the bank account details in a previous 
email were wrong. In reality, it had been sent by a fraudster who had substituted the clients 
bank account details for their own.
When the client confirmed to Mr P that it hadnt received the payment, he realised that he 
mustve been the victim of a scam, so he notified HSBC. HSBC attempted to recover the 
payment from the receiving bank on 12 June but there were no funds left in the account.
Mr P says that HSBC shouldve done more to prevent the fraud from taking place and so he 
made a complaint. HSBC said it did everything it couldve done to protect A from being 
scammed. It provided the recollection of the staff member who processed the payment for A.
 the customer told me they wanted to make a payment as their supplier had 
changed bank account details. They had received an email with the new details. I 
asked the customer to check that the new bank account details are correct with the 
supplier as this wasnt normal to just change account details without warning. The 
customer made a phone call to someone else  to ask them to check that the details 
were correct. I said that I wouldnt be happy to make the payment until the details 
were checked as this wasnt normal and could be fraud. Someone then phoned the 
customer back stating that the details were correct.
Mr P gave the following account of the meeting in branch at which the payment instruction 
was given:
The account details were shown on the invoice sent by e-mail from the supplier that I 
had just received on the way to the bank  [another director at A] phoned me to 
explain that there had been an e-mail from the finance controller  telling us to pay 
into a different bank account as their bank was carrying out an audit.
[]
When [the HSBC representative] entered the bank account details into the system 
she said they did not match and said there were two options  [the HSBC 
representative] stated this happens when there are differences between a local and 
head branch. I felt uneasy about this so my partner and I suggested we go away to 
re-clarify the details, however [the HSBC representative] had said that we would 
have to start the whole transaction process again and it would take time which may 
result in the client not receiving the funds in time.
[]
I phoned [another director at A] to get confirmation which account was correct. He 
then phoned back confirming which account to pay having e-mailed [the finance 
controller].
HSBC rejected the complaint. Mr P was unhappy with that, so he referred it to this service. It 
was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. The investigator said that this payment was a 
much larger payment than the typical payments from this account. The size of the payment, 
the fact that it was being sent to a new payee and that the payee was an overseas account  
these factors ought to have led HSBC to look at the payment more closely to ensure that A 
wasnt at risk of being scammed.
The investigator said that the HSBC representative shouldve told Mr P about the possibility 
of an email intercept scam. He didnt think the testimony provided by the branch staff or by 
Mr P suggested that this happened. If it had, the investigator concluded that no reasonable 
person would proceed with such a large payment if they were aware there was any 
meaningful risk of fraud.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators findings and responded at length. In summary, it said 
that:
The investigator hadnt considered whether there was contributory negligence on the 
part of A. HSBC considered that A had failed to take reasonable and appropriate 
steps to protect themselves from fraud, was negligent and ought to bear at least 
some responsibility for the loss.
The rate of interest that the investigator recommended be added to the 
compensation is punitive. Any interest awarded should not be higher than the rate on 
the account from which the payment was made.
The investigator also looked into the decision taken by HSBC to close As account. He noted 
that this had been carried out in line with the terms and conditions of the account and didnt 
think that HSBC had acted unfairly in doing so. A accepted the investigators view so Ive not 
consider this particular element of the complaint further. However, as HSBC disagreed with 
the investigators recommendation that the scam payment be refunded, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. It is common ground that this payment was authorised and according to the 
relevant regulations, A is prima facie liable for it. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider tohave been 
good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
Im satisfied that this payment ought to have been looked at more closely. Statement data for 
the twelve months prior to the scam taking place shows that, whilst there is one payment of 
broadly the same size as this one (a payment of over £40,000 in March 2018) most of the 
payments on this account are much smaller. The size of this payment when considered 
alongside the fact that this was being made to a new payee and to an overseas account, 
ought to have prompted HSBC to look at the payment more closely.
The fact that a payment is unusual or out of character doesnt meant that this complaint must 
be upheld. I need to be persuaded that an appropriate intervention on the part of HSBC 
wouldve affected the subsequent events. As this payment was discussed in branch, I cant 
know for sure exactly what was said at the time and Ive been provided with two quite 
different explanations as to how that meeting unfolded. 
In cases such as this one, where the evidence is unclear or contradictory, I must come to a 
decision on the basis of a balance of probabilities  that is, whether the evidence suggests 
HSBC adequately questioned the payment so as to satisfy itself that A wasnt at risk of 
financial harm.  In this case, there is a disagreement between the parties as to whether 
HSBC sufficiently drew Mr Ps attention to the risk of proceeding with the payment. The 
recollections shared by the HSBC employee suggest that Mr P was told that a last-minute 
change of bank account details wasnt normal. Ive thought about whether the HSBC 
employee did enough to inform A about the risks of proceeding in the circumstances.
Its difficult to make a judgement about whether the HSBC employee did enough to make Mr 
P aware of the risks here without knowing more about what form of words were used and 
how concerned the HSBC employee appeared to Mr P. Itd be quite possible for an HSBC 
employee to describe the last-minute change of account details as unusual, but not 
necessarily draw Mr Ps attention to the possibility that the email containing the account 
details had been intercepted by a fraudster and the obvious risk hed be taking if he allowed 
the payment to be processed. 
Ive considered this point carefully and I think that Mr Ps subsequent actions suggest that 
HSBC didnt do enough to alert him to the possibility that A could be at risk of financial harm. 
Mr P needed to be informed of the reality of email intercept scams and told that the safest 
way to be sure he wasnt being scammed was to call the intended recipient of payment. The 
recollections of the HSBC employee do not suggest that Mr P was advised to call the 
supplier directly, rather than email to check the bank details were correct. Only the former 
action wouldve uncovered the fraud and Id have expected HSBC to share this information 
with Mr P at the time.If HSBC had done this, I think its more likely than not Mr P wouldve taken additional steps 
to protect his company. The value of this payment was so high and represented such a 
significant amount of the companys account balance, I find it unlikely Mr P wouldve been 
content to take such a risk. For that reason, I think the most likely explanation for the fact 
that he acted as he did is that HSBC didnt do enough to alert him to the risk.
Contributory negligence
HSBC has argued that, even if I find that it ought to have intervened to prevent the scam, A 
was contributorily negligent and so should bear responsibility for at least part of the loss. I 
have considered whether Mr P on behalf of A was blameworthy in some way, but Im not 
persuaded that he knew that he was taking a risk by allowing the payment to be processed. 
The recollection shared with us by the HSBC employee suggests that Mr P was told that a 
last-minute change of account details was not normal and that he should verify that they 
were correct. It seems to me that Mr P likely did contact a colleague to check the details 
were correct, but not in such a way that the scam would be exposed. As Ive explained, Ive 
found this is because HSBC didnt do enough to bring to life the reality of what these scams 
look like.
There was a significant imbalance of knowledge between HSBC and Mr P. HSBC has a 
more thorough understanding of the wide-ranging techniques used by fraudsters. By 
contrast, I wouldnt expect Mr P to know that its possible for a fraudster to step into a 
legitimate email exchange and convincingly impersonate the sender. 
While the recollections that have been shared with us suggest there was some level of 
concern on the part of the HSBC employee, any discussion needed to involve this level of 
detail for Mr P to fully grasp the risk that hed be taking by allowing the payment to go ahead. 
And for the reasons Ive already explained, I think its unlikely that it did.
In the absence of the HSBC employee drawing Mr Ps attention to it, I dont think he knew he 
was taking such a significant risk. And if he hadnt understood the risk that he was taking, I 
dont think it can be said that he shouldve taken greater steps to protect himself or that he 
acted negligently. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I think HSBC needs to refund the payment to As account.
HSBC has said that to award 8% simple interest in addition to the payment would be punitive 
and that any interest awarded shouldnt exceed the rate that was applicable on the account 
from which the funds were paid.
In general terms, 8% simple interest is awarded where the customer has been deprived of 
money and its not straightforward to determine exactly what they wouldve done with it. In 
this instance, A had not intended to keep the money in the account in order to receive 
interest  it had intended to use the money to buy goods relating to the operation of their 
business. 
I can see that they paid the same invoice to correct account shortly after they made the 
scam payment which meant that throughout this period, the balance on As account was 
significantly lower than it shouldve been and since I cant reasonably speculate about how 
that money wouldve been used if A had access to it, Im satisfied that 8% simple interest is 
an appropriate rate to apply.Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint.
HSBC Bank Plc now needs to:
Refund the payment of £43,774.06 to As account.
Add 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date of the scam until the 
date a settlement is paid.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman