DRN-3747142
The complaint
Mr G has complained that in lodging £1,800 cash into a machine at Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) it wrongly registered he had only lodged £1,300 so he is short £500. 
What happened
Mr G attended a branch of Barclays to lodge £1,800 of bank notes which were shortly due to 
expire. He said he had £1,000 of £20 notes as in 50 £20 notes and £800 of £50 notes as in 
16 £50 notes. He had to use a machine to lodge the money. He said the machine had some 
difficulty in reading one of the notes which he then had to re-enter. When he had finished 
loading in all the notes the machine was only recording that he lodged £1,300 not £1,800. 
He requested the machine to return his money and it only returned £1,300. He said he was 
confused and looked around to see if any notes had dropped somewhere and indeed then 
checked his bag, returned to his car to search that and his house and then reported it to the 
bank.
He said he received poor service from the branch which Barclays has acknowledged as it 
paid him £25 compensation. 
Ultimately Barclays said the machine balanced and it was checked by two people and there 
were no extra £500 in notes found. So, it didnt believe it had to repay Mr G his missing 
£500. 
So, Mr G brought his complaint to us. The investigator was also of the view that the evidence 
showed there was nothing wrong with the machine, so he didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. As Mr G remained dissatisfied his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. I also appreciate and 
understand that Mr G will be deeply disappointed with my decision.
Barclays evidence is that there were no other reported issues with this machine. Further the 
machine balanced before being emptied meaning there was no extra cash found. 
Also, Barclays said the machine was physically inspected by two different people where all 
compartments including what is called the purge bin, which would have retained any notes 
not read properly, and no such notes were found. 
Most importantly the audit logs of the machine show that 16 £50 notes and 25 £20 were 
inserted at the time of Mr Gs transaction so not 50 £20 notes which Mr G said he had with 
him to lodge. Those logs also confirm Mr Gs account of what happened in that it shows he 
lodged the cash, then cancelled the transaction before re-entering the cash. 
This level of evidence doesnt show me anything wrong with the machine Mr G used given it 
also noted Mr G cancelled his first lodgement and then did it again. It properly noted Mr G 
lodged 16 £50 notes which is what he said he had in £50 notes too. However, it only 
received 25 £20 notes not the 50 £20 notes Mr G believed he had.  
Ive no reason to disbelieve what Mr G said at all. I do believe he thought he was lodging 50 
£20 notes. But there is only a record of 25 £20 notes being lodged by Mr G  and there is 
evidence that the machine did balance before it was emptied the next time and there was 
nothing found in the purge bins of this machine either. Had Barclays not been able to 
produce this evidence and had it not followed the checks I would have expected it to do on 
receiving Mr Gs complaint, then my decision would have been different. But Im satisfied on 
Barclays evidence of checking the machine and the fact nothing was found in the purge 
bins, that there was nothing wrong with this machine.
When Mr G first raised his complaint with Barclays, he complained that he received poor 
service in having his complaint registered properly. Barclays acknowledged this and paid Mr 
G £25 compensation for this. I consider this to be broadly fair on the basis that Barclays then 
did investigate Mr Gs complaint adequately and did undertake all the checks on the 
machine I would have expected it do it. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman