DRN-1591140
The complaint
Mrs B complains Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly told her energy supplier she had passed 
away.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs B called Barclays and asked them to cancel her direct debit with her 
energy supplier. When Barclays did this, they incorrectly sent a message to Mrs B's energy 
supplier saying she had passed away.
A few weeks later, Mrs B received a letter from her energy supplier saying she had passed 
away. As her direct debit had been cancelled for this reason, she was unable to reinstate her 
direct debit. So, Mrs B complained to Barclays.
After looking into Mrs B's complaint, Barclays sent their final response letter. In this, they 
apologised for their mistake and offered Mrs B £100 in recognition of this. They 
also confirmed they had reinstated her direct debit. Mrs B remained unhappy as she wanted 
£5 million to put things right. Barclays weren't prepared to increase their offer, so Mrs B 
asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mrs B's complaint. She felt £100 was a fair 
acknowledgement of the upset and worry Mrs B would have experienced after receiving the 
letter from her energy supplier. 
Mrs B maintained £100 didn't go far enough to put things, and said she was prepared to 
accept £2 million pounds. As neither our investigator, nor Mrs B, could agree on the 
compensation award, the complaint has been passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mrs B's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome she wanted, but I'll explain my reasons below.
It's not in dispute that Barclays made a mistake when they cancelled Mrs B's direct debit. In 
particular, they incorrectly told Mrs B's energy supplier that the direct debit was being 
cancelled because she'd passed away. She found this out when her energy supplier wrote to 
her. And I can understand why this would have been very shocking for Mrs B to see. In light 
of this, it's right Barclays does something to acknowledge their mistake. So, I've had to 
decide if Barclays £100 offer goes far enough to do this.
I've not seen any information to show that Mrs B incurred additional charges or that her 
energy supply was stopped as a result of Barclays mistake. So I've had to focus on the 
upset and inconvenience she experienced. Mrs B feels a fair award for what she went 
through is £5 million. But from what I've seen, I can't agree that award would be appropriate 
in the circumstances.As mentioned above, it would have been a terrible shock for Mrs B to receive a letter saying 
she had passed away. But I can't ignore the fact that the day Barclays was made aware of 
this, they reinstated the direct debit as she had instructed. They were also very quick to 
acknowledge they'd done something wrong and apologise for their mistake. Barclays fixed 
their mistake and offered Mrs B £100 within one month of sending the incorrect cancellation 
reason. And during that period of time, they took under one week to provide their final 
response on the matter.
I'm satisfied Barclays actions following Mrs B's complaint demonstrates they have taken the 
matter seriously. And they've tried to take steps to acknowledge their mistake and regain 
Mrs B's trust in their service. Taking everything into account, Barclays offer is in line with 
what I would have awarded if they hadn't already tried to put things right. And it's for this 
reason I won't be asking Barclays to pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mrs B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman