DRN-3717559
The complaint
Miss B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan Equine declined a claim
made for her horses treatment on the basis that the condition was pre-existing. She doesnt
agree and wants them to pay her claim. Shes also unhappy that an exclusion was added to
her policy in relation to the horses back, spine and associated soft tissue structures. She
considers the exclusion to be unfair and wants it removed.
What happened
Miss B has had insurance cover for her horse with Allianz since 26 February 2021. On 19
May 2021 she submitted a claim for treatment of back problems. This was declined as
Allianz said that when they assessed the claim, the veterinary records showed that the horse
had problems with his back in September 2020. This wasnt disclosed when Miss B took out
her policy and as it was pre-existing it wasnt covered by her policy.
As well as declining Miss Bs claim Allianz added exclusions to her policy effective from 26
February 2021. These included an exclusion for the back, spine and associated soft tissue
structures. Miss B was told this exclusion could be reviewed after 12 months subject to
Allianz receiving an exclusion review form completed by her vet following an examination.
Miss B wasnt happy that her claim had been declined, or with the exclusion, as she said the
horse was only seen for a routine vaccination in September 2020. She says she mentioned
to the vet that the horse was uncomfortable in the mouth and playing up a bit. And the vet
said he needed his wolf teeth removed. Miss B says she wasnt aware that the vet had
recorded that she found tension and heat over the horses lumbar spine. She says her horse
had his wolf teeth removed in October 2020 and was fine until April 2021.
Miss B raised a complaint with Allianz. She says her physiotherapist and vet both wrote
letters stating that the horse was fine. But Allianz ignored these and didnt uphold her
complaint. She also said theres no link between wolf teeth and problems in the sacroiliac 
spine, so to add an exclusion to her policy for the back, spine and associated structures is
unfair.
When responding to Miss Bs complaint Allianz told her theyd referred her claim to their
external vet, who said he believed the lack of progress with the horses training in February
2021, was linked to the problem noted in September 2020. They confirmed her claim wasnt
covered as it was for a pre-existing condition which had shown clinical signs before her
policy started.
The letter from Miss Bs vet is dated 8 June 2021. The vet says that when she saw the horse
in September 2020 Miss B told her he was behaving badly and was uncomfortable in his
mouth. She found some heat in his lumbar spine but said this could have had many possible
causes. The horse needed his wolf teeth removed and she thought the dental issues were
causing tension in his back.
The letter also says the horse had regular treatments from a physiotherapist, from March
2019, for the back pain/tightness noted before its wolf teeth were removed. But appeared to
be working and comfortable when seen on 20 February 2021. She concludes the letter by
saying no diagnosis was made by her in September 2020, so she doesnt think there was a
pre-existing condition.
The letter provided by the physiotherapist, dated 17 June 2021, says that he believes theres
been some confusion about his findings on 25 September 2020. He says the thoracolumbar
dysfunction he noted wasnt related to pain. And the most obvious cause for the lack of
movement (dysfunction) hed noted was dental related and the possible need for removal of
the horses wolf teeth. He saw the horse again in February 2021 and it wasnt in pain. And
the first sign of pain was in May 2021 when the horse was referred for assessment.
Miss B says that in mid-March 2021 the horse began to show uncharacteristic behaviour
under saddle. He didnt want to move forward, his ears were back and he was rearing. He
had an episode of pyrexia (fever) on 16 March 2021 which the vet treated. He resumed work
on 24 March 2021. But on 27 March 2021 the problems working returned.
She arranged thermal imaging which was done on 3 April 2021. This suggested the horse
was suffering from sacroiliac joint pain. The scan showed a high thermal temperature in the
sacroiliac region. The nature of the intensity was said to suggest this emanated deep within
the joint and was likely to be the cause of the behaviours Miss B had noted. 
The horse was referred to a diagnostic centre for assessment. Evidence of sacroiliac
pathology was found which was said to be causing secondary muscular spasm and pain
throughout the thoracolumbar and thoracic regions of his back. He was given corticosteroid
injections under ultrasound guidance and ongoing physiotherapy and rehabilitation was
recommended. Miss B then submitted her claim to Allianz.
When her claim was declined Miss B raised a complaint with Allianz and when this wasnt
upheld, she complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt
recommend that the complaint be upheld. She considered the veterinary records and said
the vet noted tension in the horses back and heat over his lumbar spine in September 2020.
The Animal Manual Therapist had noted thoracolumbar dysfunction on 25 September 2020.
And the hospital report noted significant tension in the thoracolumbar region.
Our investigator acknowledged that both Miss Bs vet and the physiotherapist said the
horses back problems werent pain related. But she said Allianz had obtained an opinion 
from a vet who believed the back problems in February 2021 were linked to symptoms noted
in September 2020. They didnt think the horses wolf teeth were responsible for the extent
of his symptoms, and tension in his back continued after these had been removed.
She also said any pre-existing conditions should have been disclosed when Miss B took out
her policy. And as the evidence suggested the back tension noted in September 2020 was
related to the problems found in February 2021, it was fair for Allianz to say it was a pre-
existing condition which wasnt covered by the policy.
Miss B didnt accept our investigators opinion as she maintains that the lack of movement in
his back in 2020 was related to her horses wolf teeth. Shes told us that after these were
removed in October 2020, he was fine and being ridden four or five times a week without
any problems until March 2021. She believes he had a secondary minor thoracolumbar
dysfunction due to head tossing as he was uncomfortable with his wolf teeth. Then five
months later while in training he sustained an injury to the sacroiliac region, probably when
jumping. She believes that if hed had a problem in this area for five months, he wouldnt
have been able to work as normal for so long after his wolf teeth were removed.
Miss B also provided a further letter from her vet, dated 9 December 2021, which confirmsthe horse has ongoing sacroiliac pain which is to be treated with ultrasound guided
corticosteroids. The vet states that the sacroiliac pain is unrelated to the removal of the
horses wolf teeth and isnt caused by the spasm through the back musculature.
Our investigator considered the further comments Miss B made and said that the horse had
problems with his back before the policy was taken out. And had Allianz been advised of
these theyd have placed an exclusion on his policy for 12 months, when the policy started.
So the claim made for treatment in April 2021, wouldnt have been covered.
In response to this Miss B said that her horse didnt have back pain in September 2020. She
says that his behaviour due to his wolf teeth was causing dysfunction and tension in his
back. She also says that the back and sacroiliac areas arent the same anatomical structure.
She provided a letter dated 7 January 2022 from the clinic where her horse was treated in
April 2021.
This says the following: -
The horse has had his wolf teeth removed. These havent caused any back or
sacroiliac pain.
The horse was first assessed on 20 April 2021 and diagnosed with sacroiliac pain.
He was given corticosteroids and will require ongoing treatment.
The sacroiliac pain is a new condition which had not previously been diagnosed or
treated. And any previous back problem he may or may not have had, hasnt caused
the sacroiliac problem. There were no abnormalities of his back found on x-ray or on
a bone scan.
We then asked Miss B if her vet would speak to Allianzs vet. The vets spoke and Allianz
have provided a copy of the summary of the discussion provided by their vet.
Allianzs vet accepts that the sacroiliac ligament is a separate anatomical structure to the
spine of the horse. He also accepts the diagnosis of sacroiliac pain made on 20 April 2021.
He says he explained to Miss Bs vet that the horses history suggests an ongoing back
problem before the policy started. And he reminded her that when the horse was referred to
her, he was suffering pain on palpation and was showing asymmetry behind indicative of 
muscle wastage.
Allianzs vet says that Miss Bs vet understood why her claim was rejected and agreed that it
wasnt possible to separate her diagnosis from the horses previous history.
Miss B wasnt happy with summary of the discussion between the vets and wanted to
discuss this with her vet. Her vet has provided a letter dated 28 February 2022 in which she
says that Miss B and the referring vet said the signs of poor performance under saddle, first
reported in September 2020, resolved after the removal of the horses wolf teeth in October
2020 and he then worked well under saddle. She concludes by saying she first saw the
horse in April 2021 when he was referred for investigation of poor performance.
Our investigator asked Miss Bs vet to confirm that shed spoken to Allianzs vet and agreed
the summary hed provided. She confirmed that shed spoken to him and understood the
reason Miss Bs claim had been rejected was due to the non-disclosure of previous issues
when the policy was taken out. And if that was the case, shed said she understood the
reason for rejecting the claim. But shes unable to separate her diagnosis from the previous
issues, as she didnt see the horse at that stage.The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 23 June 2022.
 In it I said: -
The issues for me to consider in this case are whether Miss Bs horse suffered from a pre-
existing condition when she took out her policy, and whether it was reasonable for Allianz to
decline her claim and add an exclusion to her policy. Im only considering the exclusion in
relation to the horses back, spine and associated soft tissue structures.
The horse was seen by Miss Bs vet on September 2020 for routine vaccinations, and the
vet noted heat over his lumbar spine. She said he needed his wolf teeth removed, and in the
absence of any pain or lameness the dental issues were likely to be causing tension in his
back, explaining his behaviour when ridden and the heat in his back.
The vet says that she advised Miss B that if the horses poor behaviour under saddle
continued when his wolf teeth had been removed, he should be seen for a full examination.
She says that had Miss B had any concerns about the horse then she would have arranged
for him to be examined. But he wasnt seen again until 6 April 2021, when hed returned
from the trainer due to lack of progress and poor behaviour. The trainer thought he should
be assessed by a vet.
The horse was seen by a physiotherapist on 25 September 2020 for a routine check. While
he noted thoracolumbar dysfunction, or lack of movement, hes provided clarification of his
findings saying he believed this was related to the horses wolf teeth. And there was no
evidence of any back pain until his time at the training facility and the referral for
assessment.
The horses wolf teeth were removed In October 2020 and Miss B has told us that after
about a weeks recovery he returned to working normally. He wasnt seen again by her vet
until 16 March 2021 when he was treated for a bout of pyrexia.
Allianzs vet has linked the symptoms noted in September 2020 to the sacroiliac problems
the horse was treated for in April 2021. The vet who treated the horse in April 2021 says she 
cant comment on any link to the issues noted in September 2020, as she didnt see the
horse at that stage.
Miss Bs policy defines a pre-existing condition as an injury or illness that happened or first
showed clinical signs before your horses cover started or an injury or illness that is caused
by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or clinical sign your horse had before its cover
started. This is said to apply in all cases regardless of whether the injury presents in the
same, of different part of the body and/or we do, or do not, place any exclusions for the
injury/illness.
Both the vet and physiotherapist who saw Miss Bs horse in September 2020 advised her
that the heat and tension noted in the thoracolumbar region were probably caused by the
horses wolf teeth. Miss B arranged for these to be removed in October 2020 and I accept
her evidence that after a short recovery period her horse was able to work normally.
Other than treatment for a bout of pyrexia in March 2021 the horse wasnt seen again until
April 2021.
Miss B has told us that the horse was booked in with a trainer for 10 weeks but returned
home after eight as he wasnt making any further progress and hed started to exhibit
behaviours that could be linked to pain. Miss B arranged thermal imaging which was done
on the 3 April 2021. This suggested a problem in the sacroiliac area. He was seen by thevets on 6 April 2021 for poor performance which led to the diagnosis of sacroiliac pain,
following a referral for further evaluation and a bone scan.
Allianzs vet has said the condition Miss Bs horse was treated for in April 2021 is linked to
the heat and tension in his thoracolumbar spine noted in September 2020. But Im not
persuaded that this is correct. Both the vet and physiotherapist who saw him then advised
Miss B that that the issues were likely to be linked to his wolf teeth. She arranged for the wolf
teeth to be removed. She was told that if issues with his performance continued after the
teeth were removed, she should arrange for him to have a full assessment. And I accept she
would have done, as this is what she did in April 2021.
The vet who treated the horse for sacroiliac pain hasnt agreed that the problems found in
April 2021 were linked to the back heat and tension noted in September 2020. Shes said
she cant comment as she didnt see the horse until April 2021.
For me to say Allianz acted fairly in declining Miss Bs claim for her horses treatment I need
to be satisfied of a link between the findings in September 2020, and the condition
diagnosed in April 2021. And based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded there is a
link.
And looking at the exclusion Allianz added to Miss Bs policy after she made her claim, this
is only fair if her horse had a pre-existing problem with his back, which should have been
declared when she took out the policy. The evidence from the vet and physiotherapist who
saw the horse in September 2020, is that the heat and tension in the back was linked to his
wolf teeth. Once these were removed theres no evidence of any issues with his back before
April 2021. So I dont think the exclusion is fair and should be removed from the policy.
And I require Allianz to reassess Miss Bs claim for treatment of her horses sacroiliac pain,
on the basis that the condition wasnt pre-existing and ignoring the exclusion added in
respect of his back, spine and associated soft tissue structures.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Bs complaint.
Ms B has indicated that shes happy with my provisional decision.
Allianz have said they arent happy with my provisional decision. Theyve said that when 
Miss B took out her policy she was asked whether her horse had shown any sign of illness 
or injury or been unwell either now or in the past. This is regardless of whether or not he was 
seen by a vet for the problem or you treated the problem yourself. They say Miss B 
answered no to this question, but her horse had experienced back pain and his wolf teeth 
had been removed.
They also say that Miss B was asked whether her horse had been seen by a vet or another 
veterinary professional for any reason. She told them hed been stung by a bee and given 
antihistamines when he was 18 months old but hadnt declared anything else.
And she was also asked if her horse has ever shown signs of any vices, behavioural 
problems or vicious tendencies? To which shed answered no. But Allianz say the vet 
reports that after the horse went to the trainer on 14 February 2021, they were able to make 
no progress with him as he was bucking and rearing.
So they say Miss B didnt take enough care when answering these questions or tell them 
everything she knew. Allianz believe that her horse was experiencing problems before the 
insurance started which should have been declared when she took out her policy. And had 
they been theyd have placed exclusions on the policy, although potentially reviewable ones, and her claim wouldnt have been covered.
Allianz have also said that Miss Bs horse was seen by an physiotherapist on 10 February 
2021 who noted a block and said he required some help through his mid to lower neck 
region, his hyoid and his mid back area. They say seeing the physiotherapist was relatively 
regular for the horse, but he needed soft tissue treatment which should have been disclosed. 
The physiotherapist has said the findings werent extraordinary. Allianz have said they arent 
suggesting that they were, but there was something wrong with the horse which should have 
been declared.
So Allianz dont believe that they should pay Miss Bs claim. 
Miss B had told us that the physiotherapy treatment provided to her horse was standard 
practice and good horsemanship as he was starting his ridden career. She wanted to make 
sure he was happy and comfortable working under saddle. And he was seen on 10 February 
2021 to ensure all was well before going to the trainers. He was going to concentrate on 
jumping and she wanted to ensure he was up to the workload.
We asked Miss B to request clarification of any treatment the physiotherapist provided in 
February 2021. Allianz have been provided with a copy of his further comments.
The physiotherapist has said that he visits his clients three to six times a year, in order to 
maintain the equine athlete. He says this is standard practice and its important to carry out 
regular check-ups to minimise the chance of injury and support the well-being of the animal. 
And his treatments are mostly targeted at improving performance.
He says that on 10 February 2021 he found some restriction at C5 in the horses neck which 
was caused by tension in the connecting muscles, which was easily changed with some 
massage. He says he applied soft tissue treatment to the areas to improve elasticity and 
athletic performance. He compares this to an office worker having a tight neck and 
shoulders, after working at their desk for long periods.
He goes on to say that when he saw the horse he considered him to be in good condition to 
begin to further his skills and workload. And he says he asks clients to rest their animal after 
treatment to maximise the benefits. He had no concerns about the horse and says if he had 
hed have arranged to see him again far sooner than the four-month appointment that was 
arranged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont disagree with Allianz that Miss B should have declared the issue with her horses wolf 
teeth and the related problems which arose in September 2020. But as his wolf teeth were 
removed in October 2020 and any related issues had settled. I can perhaps understand why 
she didnt. The teeth had been removed and theyre werent going to be any more issues 
arising from them. And Allianz have added a non-reviewable exclusion to Miss B policy 
which I think is fair.
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think the problems that arose in March/April 
2021 were related to any symptoms the horse had in September 2020. And I havent 
changed my mind about that. 
So what about any symptoms the horse had in February 2021 before Miss B took out her policy with Allianz. She says she was getting him checked out before he went to the trainers, 
as he was moving on to the next stage in his training and she wanted to ensure he was fit 
and able to cope with the increased workload, particularly as hed be concentrating on 
jumping.
This is supported by what the physiotherapist has said. He says in found some minor tension 
in the horses neck and connecting muscles which was relieved by soft tissue treatment. He 
likened this to an office worker having a massage to relieve a stiff neck and shoulders after 
sitting at a desk for too long. He considered the horse to be in good condition to begin 
furthering his skills and workload.
Allianz have said that they wouldnt expect a horse to be seen by a physiotherapist unless 
there was an issue. So this was something Miss B should have declared. And had she done 
this theyd have added an exclusion to her policy in relation to any conditions related to the 
back. 
On balance Im persuaded by what Miss B has told us. So I accept that the horse was being 
seen to ensure that he was fit before he started the next stage of his training. The 
physiotherapist has confirmed he considered the horse to be in good condition, so I dont 
think there was any reason for Miss B to declare that hed been seen by a physiotherapist to 
Allianz, particularly as it appears the horse had regular checks of this nature for the benefit 
of his wellbeing. 
Allianz have also said Miss B didnt declare that the horse had exhibited behavioural 
problems before she took out her policy. The horse went to the trainers on 14 February 
2021. Allianz have said that according to the vet he didnt make progress and returned 
home. But theyre not taking into account what Miss B told them when she submitted her 
claim.
She said her horse was booked into the schooling livery for 10 weeks from 14 February 
2021. All was going well until 13 March 2021 when he didnt want to go forward, his ears 
went back when being asked to go forward and he was doing small rears. This was 
considered out of character for him but was put down to a couple of bad days. 
The horse then fell ill with pyrexia and was treated by a vet. He resumed work on 24 March 
2021 and there were no problems for three days. He then started to exhibit further problems. 
He was ridden until 3 April when the trainer told Miss B his behaviour suggested he could be 
in pain. She arranged the thermal scan which showed a potential sacroiliac problem and led 
to him being seen by a vet and referred for treatment. 
It's clear from the evidence Ive seen that Miss B takes very good care of her horse. I accept 
her account of what happened when he was at the training livery. And on this basis, I dont 
think he was showing any signs of behavioural problems before she took out her policy.
In my provisional decision I said that for me to say Allianz acted fairly in declining Miss Bs 
claim for her horses treatment I needed to be satisfied of a link between the findings in 
September 2020, and the condition diagnosed in April 2021. And that based on the evidence 
Id seen I wasnt persuaded there was a link. I havent changed my mind about that.
Nor am I persuaded on the further evidence Ive considered that Miss Bs horse had a pre-
existing problem with his back which he was treated for in February 2021. I accept what Miss 
B and the physiotherapist have told us about the physiotherapists visit on 10 February 2021.
Miss B has said she believes the horse injured himself while at the training yard, before he 
started to exhibit poor behaviour. Theres no evidence to confirm this, but on balance I think this is a reasonable explanation of how he sustained an injury to his back, particularly as his 
training was concentrating on jumping, which would have increased his workload.
Looking at the exclusion Allianz added to Miss Bs policy after she made her claim, this
is only fair if her horse had a pre-existing problem with his back, which should have been
declared when she took out the policy. The evidence from the vet and physiotherapist who
saw the horse in September 2020, is that the heat and tension in the back was linked to his
wolf teeth. And based on the further evidence Ive considered Im not persuaded that he had 
a problem with his back in February 2021. 
So theres no evidence of any issues with his back before March 2021 and this wasnt 
diagnosed until April 2021. So I dont think the exclusion is fair and should be removed from 
the policy.
Had Miss B told Allianz that her horse was seen by a physiotherapist on 10 February 2021, 
and theyd added an exclusion to the policy for the back and associated soft tissue 
structures, and shed brought her complaint to us, wed have been able to look at the 
exclusion. And consider whether it was fair based on all the available evidence. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen I dont think it would have been.
So I dont think Allianz acted fairly in declining Miss Bs claim for treatment of her horses 
sacroiliac pain. 
My final decision
For the reason set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that uphold 
Miss Bs complaint about Allianz Insurance plc trading as Petplan Equine. 
And to put things right I require them to reassess Miss Bs claim for treatment of her horses 
sacroiliac pain, on the basis that the condition wasnt pre-existing and ignoring the exclusion 
added to her policy in respect of his back, spine and associated soft tissue structures.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman