DRN-3103442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the service they received from Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited in relation to their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs W took out a home insurance policy through a broker.
In March 2020 the broker wrote to Mr and Mrs W telling them the policy was due to renew on 
14 April 2020 but they needed to pay the premium. Mr and Mrs W paid the premium on the 
renewal date.
In September Mr and Mrs W tried to make a claim for vandalism under the policy. Mr W 
told us that he was unable to get through at first, so he tried again the following day. He 
said that he wanted to enquire about the policy excess as if this was more than the repair 
cost, it wouldnt have been worth making a claim. He said when he got through to an 
adviser he was told he didnt have a policy as it hadnt been renewed in April 2020.
In December 2020 and January 2021 Lloyds told Mr and Mrs W in writing they didnt have a 
policy with it but it paid them £50 for the delay in responding to their complaint. 
After Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service, Lloyds confirmed that Mr and 
Mrs W did have an insurance policy with it. The policy was branded in the name of the 
broker but Lloyds was the insurer and a third party dealt with the claims. It said Mr W had 
spoken to its claim handler to register a claim but decided not to proceed with this 
because the excess payable under the policy was more than the cost of the repair.
Our investigator upheld their complaint. She thought Lloyds should pay £200 compensation 
and consider the claim if Mr and Mrs W would like it to. 
As Mr and Mrs W didnt think the amount recommended was sufficient, the matter has been 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only looking at how Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs W as their insurer. 
Theyve made a separate complaint against the broker.
According to the call notes of Lloyds claims handler Mr W called it on 1 October 2020 
about a broken window. The notes go on to explain that Mr W had reported the claim to 
home emergency and the window had been boarded. The police had also been informed.
There are notes from a later call the same morning which detail a discussion about the 
policy excess. The notes suggest that Mr W indicated that he was unhappy with having to 
pay the excess amount of £250. There is nothing in the notes to suggest that Mr and Mrs W 
didnt have a valid policy. I think it unlikely that the claim handler would have discussed the 
amount of the excess if the adviser thought Mr and Mrs W didnt in fact have a policy to 
claim under.
It is clear, however, that when Mr W subsequently complained to Lloyds about the excess, 
at that stage it was unable to locate the policy and told Mr and Mrs W they were uninsured. 
Lloyds has since explained that was because their policy was administered by a third party 
and it didnt have access to the third partys systems. I can appreciate that it would have 
been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs W when they knew theyd paid the premium for the 
policy and it caused them a degree of stress and inconvenience in sorting out the confusion.
Putting things right
Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that compensation of £200 is fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs W by Lloyds. I appreciate that 
this will come as a disappointment to them but Ive thought about this services approach to 
awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
Lloyds should also consider Mr and Mrs Ws claim if they would like it to.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do as I have 
set out in the section headed Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman