DRN-2104329
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about the service they were given by Age Partnership Limited in 
2019. They say they were told their lifetime mortgage application had been accepted and so 
went ahead with some building work. However, the application hadnt been accepted and it 
wasnt possible for a new mortgage to be arranged. They were left in the position of having 
had building works done and not having the funds to pay for them. Alongside this, theyve 
said their holiday was ruined because of the worry the situation caused and they felt unable 
to spend any money on trips or enjoying themselves.
What happened
In mid-February 2019 Mr and Mrs H had a telephone discussion with Age Partnership about 
their requirements. They wanted to borrow, on a lifetime basis, enough to repay their existing 
small mortgage and provide for some home improvements. A mortgage was recommended 
and Mr and Mrs H accepted that recommendation on 13 February 2019. It was confirmed 
that a valuation would be arranged and once it was done the application could proceed to 
offer. At that point solicitors would become involved. The adviser said that it all seemed quite 
straightforward to go through.
A property valuation was done and the figure returned was lower than expected. As such, a 
slightly different mortgage deal, but with the same lender, was recommended. It was 
confirmed in a telephone call of 21 February 2019 that the adviser had good news; the 
lender is happy to lend. They were then told the valuation had come back as less than 
anticipated and because of that the mortgage needed to be altered slightly. The adviser said 
the plan he was going to go to offer with would be cheaper but had less cashback available, 
so the borrowing would need to increase by £500. They were told that everything else is 
spot-on and theyre [the lender] happy to proceed. Mr and Mrs H were told everythings 
good.
Unfortunately, the lender declined the application on 1 March 2019 because of the use of 
some nearby commercial properties. Age Partnership looked for alternative lenders, but 
most of the lenders who lent on standard properties would not lend for the same reason. 
Age Partnership offered to look at lenders which were more likely to lend on the property, but 
would involve higher interest rates. Mr and Mrs H were not happy to proceed on that basis 
and arranged borrowing elsewhere. 
Mr and Mrs H complained. Age Partnership said that it asked in the initial telephone call 
whether Mr and Mrs Hs property was near any commercial or business premises and they 
answered no. It was due to that incorrect answer that the lender was proposed. The 
commercial premises were the reason for the valuation coming in with a lower value than 
expected. It was also the reason the lender wasnt willing to lend. 
Age Partnership said the adviser in good faith believed the lender would accept the 
application based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs H. It highlighted that all lifetime 
offers are subject to valuation, lending criteria and underwriting reviews and so no reliance 
on the funds should be made until the mortgage offer is received. In light of this, it didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service as they were unhappy with 
Age Partnerships response. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view. This was 
because whilst they accepted the final decision was the lenders, they didnt think the broker 
should have said the borrowing had been agreed  it should have been made clear 
agreement was provisional or subject to further consideration. They said they were not 
experts on mortgages and took at face value being told it was all agreed. They asked that 
the complaint be considered further and so it was been passed to me.
I requested some further evidence from both parties when the complaint was passed to me. 
Age Partnership confirmed it had no records of any discussions its adviser had with the 
lender between the valuation being completed and his conversation with Mr and Mrs H on 
21 February 2019.
Mr and Mrs H were asked for evidence of the contract with the builder and the deposit paid, 
so that I could be satisfied they had relied on the information from the conversation of 
21 February 2019. They have told us they have no records as they destroyed them because 
they were so upset about the situation. In relation to the payment of the £8,000 deposit, 
theyve said this was paid from cash funds they kept in their home and so they cant provide 
any evidence of the payment.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 July 2020 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that decision.
I note that Age Partnership has highlighted that Mr and Mrs H didnt tell it about the 
commercial property nearby. The implication being that they should have. I can see why it 
could think that, however, the question asked is open to interpretation. It was asked if the 
property to be mortgaged was above or adjacent to commercial premises. The answer a 
consumer gives will depend on what a consumer understands by the term adjacent. Whilst 
Age Partnership seems to consider it should be understood as nearby, that is not the only 
interpretation of the word. Given Mr and Mrs Hs home is in the middle of a terrace of similar 
properties and the commercial property referred to in the valuation is further along the road, I 
am not persuaded the answer given was wrong. 
I would, however, agree that it is inadvisable to make commitments based on borrowing 
being advanced until an offer has been received. That said in this case, I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs H might have thought it was acceptable to do so. They had been reassured 
orally several times in the telephone conversation of 21 February that after considering the 
valuation the lender had agreed to lend the money Mr and Mrs H wanted. The adviser didnt 
add any caveats into the message he was giving and so Mr and Mrs H have said they felt 
secure in accepting the money would be arriving and making commitments. It was not 
appropriate for the adviser to communicate the message he did in the terms he did.
However, I note that Mr and Mrs H havent been able to provide any evidence they made a 
commitment they couldnt withdraw from because of the misleading information Age 
Partnership gave them on 21 February 2019. So, while I think Age Partnership did 
something wrong, there is insufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs H relied on that mistake to 
their detriment. So I am unable to award any redress in the circumstances. 
That said, even had Mr and Mrs H been able to evidence they had arranged the building 
works during the ten-day period between being told the mortgage had been agreed and the 
lender turning down the application, it would not necessarily have meant they were due 
redress. In such situations we would consider what a consumer would have done had the 
mistake not occurred. In this case I understand that most of the money was needed to replace Mr and Mrs Hs conservatory which was leaking and had reached the end of its life. 
In this situation, it seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs H would not have found an alternative way 
of funding the additional borrowing they needed to have the works done. So again, I wouldnt 
have made an award for financial loss, although I may have awarded a modest amount of 
compensation for upset caused.
Age Partnership confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it had nothing further 
to add.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept my conclusions. They said that if they had been advised the 
mortgage application was going to be rejected, they wouldnt have gone ahead with having a 
new conservatory installed, but would have just had the old one repaired. Having a repair 
done would have been significantly cheaper and wouldnt have had such an impact on their 
finances. They also provided a letter from another lender for a secured loan taken out in 
2008 over 36 months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr and Mrs H for their further comments, but they havent changed my conclusions. 
The letter about a loan doesnt appear to be relevant to this complaint as it is dated 2008; 
long before the error made by Age Partnership. So whilst Mr and Mrs H have said they 
would have done something different, I still havent seen any evidence they relied on the 
incorrect information they were given in February 2019 and suffered a financial loss because 
of it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in that I think Age Partnership Limited provided 
Mr and Mrs H with incorrect information about their application having been accepted. 
However, I dont intend to make any award as there is no evidence that Mr and Mrs H acted 
in reliance on that information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman