DRN-4306212
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt accepted a claim made on
his travel insurance policy.
All reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R booked a trip abroad for June 2022. He says, whilst abroad, he:
- was attacked whilst out running;
- suffered injuries to his side, hip and leg;
- attended a hospitals accident and emergency department and, after an x-ray, was 
operated on as hed suffered a dislocated hip. He spent around four days in hospital.
After returning to the UK, Mr R made a claim on his travel insurance, underwritten by
Admiral, for his medical costs. Admiral carried out investigations into the events which Mr R
says happened abroad including: attending the treating hospital and a police station, as Mr R 
says the attack was reported to the police.
Admiral also interviewed Mr R. As a result of the interview with Mr R, follow up investigations
took place, and an investigation report was produced. The author of the report concluded
that they couldnt establish a valid travel insurance claim had been made and that theyd
been provided with information which suggested the claim wasnt genuine.
Considering the contents of the report, Admiral didnt accept Mr Rs claim. It concluded that
Mr R hadnt been able to establish a valid claim under the policy. Unhappy, Mr R complained
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Based on the evidence obtained as part of Admirals investigation, our investigator said that
Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr R didnt agree so his complaint was 
passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my provisional decision in 
July 2023 explaining in more detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint.  An 
extract is set out below. 
..
Admiral has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline a claim. Its also for Mr R to establish that he has a valid claim under the policy.
The policy does provide cover for emergency medical treatment if the policyholder falls ill or
is injured whilst abroad.
The policy also includes the following term (section 11 of the general conditions starting on
page 19 of the terms and conditions of the policy):
you must give us all the information, original documents and help that we need to
process your claim...
Admiral has relied on this term when not accepting the claim. Its concluded that Mr R hasnt
provided relevant evidence for it to verify the claim as its been unable to validate the
documents, hes provided to substantiate his claim and losses. As such, it doesnt have
sufficient evidence to verify and accept the claim  or cover the expenses Mr R has claimed
for.
Based on the totality of evidence gathered as part of the investigation, Im satisfied that this
was a fair and reasonable outcome for Admiral to reach. Before I explain why, I want to
make clear that my decision is based on the investigations up until December 2022.
Because thats when Admiral confirmed to Mr R that it was maintaining its position to not
accept his claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decline the claim because:
The investigation report reflects that the supervisor for account management at the
hospital advised that no records of Mr Rs treatment could be provided  so the
documents provided by Mr R in support of his claim couldnt be validated by the
hospital. And that the treating doctor couldnt be identified by anybody spoken to at
the hospital.
After speaking with Mr R, as part of the investigation, and receiving further
information from him, further enquiries were carried out. In particular, Mr R provided
an audio clip which he says was between a member of staff at the hospital and
himself. And the member of staff said they didnt recognise the name of the person
who was said to be the supervisor for account management  and had previously
confirmed that there was no record of Mr R having obtained treatment. However, I
dont think Admiral has unreasonably relied on the conclusions of the investigation
report that there was no way of verifying who Mr R was speaking to in the audio clip
 which was relatively short. So, it wasnt persuasive evidence to support that the
initial enquiries made at the hospital were unreliable.
During enquiries, the investigation report reflects that the police advised that the
police report provided by Mr R wasnt genuine. And that it had no records of the
attack being reported.
The outpatient first attendance card is dated 12 June 2022  which is four days after
Mr R says he first attended the hospital. It doesnt mention anything about Mr R
having had surgery which made up almost half of the medical costs. Of course, this
couldve been an oversight by the medical team. But I think its reasonable for
Admiral to conclude that surgery is likely to be mentioned in a discharge report in
order to substantiate the claim for the operation costs.
I know Mr R has raised concerns about the accuracy of the report and whether the
person undertaking the enquiries actually attended the hospital and police station. 
But as of December 2022, Mr R hadnt provided any further information from the
treating doctor or the police to contradict the findings of the investigation report.
Mr R has said that he was happy to have a three-way conversation with the author of
the report and other relevant parties based abroad in the country he was visiting to
support what he was saying. It doesnt look like that has happened. But even so,
based on what Ive seen, I dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably by relying on
the evidence obtained as part of the investigation to conclude the claim hasnt been
substantiated. Afterall, its for Mr R to establish his losses being claimed.Mr R has more recently provided our service with a letter he says is from the police in
country he was visiting and a further letter he says is from the hospital  both dated May
2023. Mr R is free to provide these letters to Admiral along with any other documents hes
obtained since December 2022 for consideration.
..
I invited both parties to provide any further information for me to consider but I received no 
reply by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having received no further information to consider, Im satisfied theres no persuasive 
reason for me to depart from my provisional findings. So, for this reason and reasons set out 
in my provisional decision (which are set out above and forms part of my final decision), I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman