DRN-4456626
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages, or its 
predecessor, failed to convert her mortgage back from interest only to repayment terms after 
a concessionary period.
What happened
Mrs Rs mortgage was originally with Northern Rock, later NRAM. It was transferred to 
Topaz in 2019, but Topaz has accepted responsibility for the actions of the previous lenders 
and for this complaint.
In around 2011, as a result of financial difficulty, Mrs R agreed with NRAM that her mortgage 
would be converted to interest only from repayment terms for a period of one year. This 
would reduce her monthly payments and help things get back on track. However, NRAM 
failed to convert the mortgage back to repayment terms in 2012 as agreed.
Mrs R complained about this in 2016. NRAM told her that because the term was by now 
shorter, the amount shed have to pay on repayment terms wouldnt be affordable so it didnt 
switch the mortgage back. Mrs R asked for a term extension to make the change possible, 
but NRAM said it didnt offer term extensions.
In 2022 Mrs R complained to us that her mortgage was still on interest only terms and the 
balance hadnt reduced as a result. As she hadnt already contacted Topaz, we referred her 
complaint to Topaz in accordance with our rules.
Topaz accepted that her mortgage should have been switched back in 2012. And it agreed 
that it should, in the alternative, have been switched back in 2016  and that a term 
extension was in fact possible and should have been agreed if necessary to facilitate that. It 
therefore upheld her complaint.
In settlement, Topaz offered to refund the additional interest it said Mrs R had been charged 
because her balance was higher than it would have been if her mortgage had been switched 
back to repayment terms, plus some compensation for her distress and inconvenience. In 
total, its offer amounted to around £13,600. Mrs R accepted that offer and Topaz paid her 
the compensation.
Mrs R then renewed her complaint to us. She said she wasnt happy with the compensation 
Topaz had offered. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint, so Mrs R asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we referred Mrs Rs complaint to Topaz, it made her an offer of compensation, and 
Mrs R accepted that offer in settlement of her complaint. 
Topazs letter in March 2022 said 
In total, our offer in resolution of your complaint is £13,603.79. If you would like to 
accept this offer, please complete the enclosed acceptance declaration form and 
return it in the pre-paid envelope provided.
Topazs letter then went on to explain that if Mrs R wasnt happy, she had the right to bring 
her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
On 6 April 2022, Mrs R signed the acceptance form. The form said
I accept the sum of £13,603.79 in settlement of my complaint. Signed [Mrs R].
The acceptance form reminded Mrs R:
Our payment to you is made in settlement of your complaint(s).
This means Topaz made an offer in full and final settlement of Mrs Rs complaint. She 
accepted that offer and has received the payment. I appreciate Mrs R now isnt happy with 
the agreed settlement and thinks she should be awarded more. But she accepted Topazs 
offer at the time. Mrs R didnt have to accept the offer; she could have come to us instead of 
doing so rather than after doing so. 
The fact is that she did accept the offer in settlement of her complaint. As a result I think 
Topaz can fairly regard the complaint as having been resolved. I dont think Topaz was 
unclear about what it was offering, or that it concealed any relevant information from Mrs R 
that she might have needed to know about before deciding to accept the settlement. In all 
the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to re-open the agreed 
settlement or require Topaz to pay Mrs R further compensation now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman