DRN-4044947
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
when trying to transfer a cash ISA to them. 
What happened
Halifax have shown us their internal record of activity on this ISA transfer. This shows they 
wrote to Mr Ks existing provider on 20 October 2022 saying hed authorised the transfer. 
The record also shows Halifax chased that up on 4 November, but were told by the existing 
provider that no letter had been received. Its not clear why that was, but the notes say 
Halifax referred the matter internally for another letter to be sent. 
Theres no record of another copy of the letter then being sent until the existing provider 
received the request in February 2023. The transfer followed shortly after. 
Mr K complained, but was told the problems were with his existing provider. In phone calls 
he says he was also told he might need to cancel his ISA to transfer the funds  something 
he feels would have had adverse consequences given the annual limits on ISA deposits. 
Mr K was also unhappy he couldnt speak directly to the ISA team.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr K brought it to us. One of our investigators saw the 
ISA transfer had at last been completed, and noted Halifax had taken steps to ensure Mr K 
hadnt lost out financially due to the delay. But our investigator felt Halifax should have done 
more to progress things before now. He recommended they pay £200 compensation to Mr K 
to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused.
Mr K didnt accept that view. He felt more attention needed to be given to what he was told 
when he raised his issues with Halifax. And he felt £400 was a more suitable compensation 
figure. With no agreement to resolve it, the complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. And I find the level of compensation already 
recommended  £200  is suitable here. Ill explain why.
Halifaxs record tells me the issue here was in not sending out a replacement letter in 
November 2022. Halifax knew at that point that the first letter hadnt been received. Theyd 
seen that the way to resolve that was simply to send another letter, but failed to do so.
This was compounded by Halifax doing nothing deeper than chasing up the existing ISA 
provider and getting the same reply  no letter to start the transfer had been received. 
I agree with Mr K that its concerning he was being told to transfer the money outside of the 
ISA transfer process. That could have caused a problem for his ISA allowances, which 
would have taken time to correct. However, Mr K has avoided an adverse impact there, so I 
dont see Halifax need to do anything to put that right now. 
I can also appreciate Mr Ks frustration at not being able to talk to someone with enough 
awareness of the problem to come up with an effective solution before now. But I can also 
appreciate that Halifaxs ISA transfer team arent set up to speak to customers. Their role is 
administrative, and Halifax have a separate customer contact team in place. 
That structure itself isnt unreasonable. But the failure to get to grips with this problem in a 
reasonable amount of time was. Its the impact of that which needs some recognition.
Putting things right
Ive looked at the details Halifax have provided of the steps taken to ensure Mr K hasnt lost 
out financially as a result of this delay. I dont see any further action is needed there.
The frustration and inconvenience here cant be undone. But some compensation will at 
least acknowledge that it happened. Picking a figure is a matter of opinion, but Ive taken a 
few key factors into account. 
The delay here was relatively long. And the responses Halifax gave Mr K were confusing. 
But all was eventually put right. And there was never a suggestion that anything bad had 
happened to Mr Ks money  it was just held up, rather than lost or otherwise at risk. 
I find £200 takes account of those impacts on Mr K. I can see Mr Ks higher suggestion 
would fit if I put more weight on the scale of the mistakes Halifax made. But I prefer to take 
an approach that focusses on rectifying impacts, rather than punishing mistakes. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. I 
direct they pay him £200 compensation for the trouble and upset this matters caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman