DRN-3747410
The complaint
Ms M complains through her representative that Progressive Money Limited (PML) 
irresponsibly lent her money that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
PML provided Ms M with a loan of £6,000 on 7 June 2017, repayable over 60 months at the 
rate of £266.25 a month. The purpose of the loan was to buy a boat. She first went into 
arrears with the payments in December 2019. She then suffered ill health and was given a 
payment deferral from April to August 2020. She then advised PML that she wasnt able to 
work due to ill health. PML has confirmed that apart from the contractual rate of interest no 
additional fees or interest have been added to the loan. So far as I know there is still an 
outstanding balance.
Ms M complained through her representative of irresponsible lending. PML said it carried out 
all necessary verification checks, including checking Ms Ms credit report, verifying her 
income, and considering her most recent bank statement. The loan was assessed as 
affordable and sustainable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator noted that the results of Ms Ms 
credit check showed she had missed payments on multiple accounts and two of her credit 
cards were over their limits. Also as Ms Ms total monthly credit repayments represented a 
significant proportion of her income there was a significant risk that Ms M wouldnt have 
been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, she thought 
it unlikely that Ms M wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan.
PML disagreed, pointing out that Ms M had given it reasonable explanations for her defaults, 
and that she had a reasonable disposable income left after accounting for her credit 
commitments, living expenses and the new loan repayments. It further disagreed that her 
monthly credit repayments represented a significant proportion of her income.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did PML complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that PML had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms M undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Here Ms M was borrowing a substantial sum over a long period. She had a basic income of 
£969 a month, topped up with child tax credits and child benefit to about £1,400. So I think 
PML should have carried out a thorough assessment of Ms Ms financial circumstances 
before providing the loan.
That said I think that PML carried out proportionate checks. And I dont disagree with its 
assessment of her credit commitments, which together with the new loan repayments 
amounted to £489.75 a month, around 35% of her monthly income including tax credits. I 
think that is high, any amount over 25% could be cause for further investigation and an 
indication that the loan was unaffordable.
Ms M had seven active defaults on her credit file. She was paying nominal amounts towards 
those defaults, of £5 or £2 a month. Whilst PML may have accepted that the defaults arose 
because of past ill health and they were still outstanding, if Ms M couldnt pay anything more 
than the nominal payments its difficult to see how she would have been able to make the 
payments on this loan, which didnt include any consolidation of her existing credit. She was 
also exceeding her credit limit on two of her credit cards. So while I appreciate that these 
loans are provided to people with a poor credit record, Ms M was nevertheless seeking to 
buy a boat with a high interest loan.PML assessed that Ms M would have a disposable income of £180 a month after accounting 
for the new loan repayments. I note it reviewed her bank statement. Whilst this didnt show 
Ms M to be overdrawn at any time, it also didnt show that she had any spare money at the 
end of the month. All the payments from her account were living expenses or debt 
payments. And whilst I note her husband was contributing to the household, this was a loan 
in her sole name as were all the debts on her credit report. 
In any event its not just the pounds and pence affordability we look at. I think there were 
sufficient indicators here to show the loan was unsustainable. So I dont think that PML 
made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Ms M has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think PML should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Ms M as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Ms M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, PML should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Ms M
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms M 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Progressive Money Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman