DRN-2062155
The complaint
Mr A complains about mistakes made by HSBC UK Bank Plc when dealing with his account 
which have caused him anxiety and distress. He wants more compensation than it has 
already paid him. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
HSBC accepts it made a processing error in August 2019 by duplicating a credit 
transaction for £350. But the terms and conditions of Mr As account allow it to put 
things right, as it subsequently did, by debiting one of the amounts involved. 
In around September 2019 Mr A also received several letters about some payments 
HSBC said had been incorrectly credited to his account. HSBC has accepted these 
letters shouldnt have been issued and it has apologised. It also credited £250 
compensation to Mr As account. But Mr A says he should be paid more 
compensation and he has suggested something like £25,000 is appropriate for the 
distress and anxiety he was caused.
I understand Mr As frustration at what happened. But HSBC has apologised for its 
errors and already paid £250 compensation. Taking everything into account I think 
thats fair and reasonable compensation for what happened and any distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused. Mr A has also suggested the way HSBC has 
dealt with things shows a malicious intent. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
that was the case.
Overall, although I recognise Mr As strength of feeling, I dont think on balance that I 
can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to do anything more including paying him any 
more compensation, including the amount of £25,000 he has suggested, as hed like.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman