DRN-2071363
The complaint
Mr Y  on behalf of Company Y  complains that certain underwriters at the Society of 
Lloyds (the underwriters) have unfairly declined legal defence costs under their 
management liability insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. But, in summary, Company Y sought to defend legal action being taken against 
it by one of its customers (the claimant) who alleged that they had been overcharged for 
services received under contract.
The underwriters declined the claim as they considered such defence costs to fall outside 
the scope of cover given that the underlying insured loss was excluded. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint and agreed with the underwriters interpretation 
of the policy terms and conditions and considered that they had therefore declined the claim 
fairly. 
Mr Y disagreed. In summary, he submits that:
Exclusion 5.1(e) does not apply as it only applies to restitutionary claims, such that 
the services or goods referred to in the exclusion must have actually been provided 
or have existed in some form for it to operate;
The claim against Company Y (which it was seeking to defend) was for damages or 
compensation for allegedly charging the claimant for services that had not been 
provided and never existed in the first place  meaning this was therefore an 
instance of fraud and should be considered under the corresponding section of the 
policy;
In any event, clause 5.1(e) only applies to claims under clause 1.2(b)  not clause 
1.3(b) which is a standalone clause intended to provide indemnity for defence costs 
in circumstances where there may be no indemnity available under clause 1.2(b).
Given that Mr Y did not agree, the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The relevant policy terms and conditions set out what is covered under the policy:
 1.2 Cover for the Company
We agree to pay on behalf of the company
b) all loss on account of any claim against the company for a wrongful act by the 
company.
Having considered the policy terms and conditions, I agree with the underwriters that (if 
anything) this is the most appropriate clause applicable to the circumstances of the 
claimants dispute with Company Y  as they have alleged wrongdoing in respect of being 
overcharged for services they say were not provided.  However, section 5 sets out additional 
exclusions that apply to clause 1.2(b):
In addition to the exclusions outlined in Section 4 above, the following exclusions 
apply with respect of insuring clause 1.2(b) Entity and any relevant Additional 
Benefit
e) the repayment or refund by the company of any amount paid to any party for 
services, advice or goods of any kind whatsoever.
Mr Y submits that this exclusion does not apply to the circumstances of his claim as it only 
applies to restitutionary claims where goods or services have actually been provided or have 
existed in some form. He says that the services in this case never existed as the claimant 
alleged they had been overcharged for services that had not been performed.
However, I cannot see any wording in the clause to the effect that the goods or services 
rendered must have in fact existed or have been supplied. The legal action brought by the 
claimant was for an amount paid for services  whether they were actually provided or not is 
not stipulated by the clause 5.1(e). In fact, the clause stipulates that it applies to services of 
any kind whatsoever which I consider to make it broad enough in its scope to encompass 
services that have been overcharged for or not provided at all. If such action were to have 
been successful, it would likely result in the repayment of an amount paidfor services. So 
I do not consider the circumstances of Company Ys claim to fall outside the scope of this 
exclusionary clause, such that it operates to nullify cover under clause 1.2(b) for alleged 
wrongful acts. 
The only other potentially operative clause remaining under the terms and conditions then is 
clause 1.3:
1.3 Defence costs for claims
Except where we deny liability under this policy we agree to pay defence costs either 
incurred by us or incurred by the insured with our prior written consent, in respect of 
a claim for loss covered by this policy. We also agree to advance defence costs in 
respect of such a claim before its final disposition. 
Mr Y submits that this is a standalone clause intended to provide indemnity for defence costs 
in circumstances where there may be no indemnity available under clause 1.2(b). But I have 
seen nothing in the policy document to support such an interpretation. It ignores the opening words of clause 1.3 which states except where we deny liability under this policy  i.e. cover 
is only available under this clause if the underlying claim for loss has not been denied. 
In these circumstances, the underlying claim for loss has been denied by the underwriters by 
virtue of it being excluded by clause 5.1(e)  which, for the reasons already stated, I 
consider to have been a fair application of the policy terms and conditions. Therefore  as 
the policy term makes clear  there is no cover available for the defence costs in respect of 
an already excluded insured loss. 
So, having considered all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the underwriters have 
declined Company Ys claim for defence costs fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y  on behalf of 
Company Y  to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman