DRN-3187376
The complaint
Mr B complains Halifax Share Dealing Limited moved some shares from his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) to his share dealing account (SDA).  
What happened
Mr B owns shares in a company I will call Company E. In April 2019 Halifax moved the 
shares from Mr Bs ISA to his SDA. When Mr B noticed this he complained to Halifax as he 
hadnt been told about the transfer.
Halifax said the transfer was made as the shares no longer had ISA qualifying status so 
couldnt be held in that account. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, but they did pay Mr B 
£100 for not managing his expectations when dealing with his concerns.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought that Halifax were following HMRC 
rules about the shares and so hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B said he wanted the shares 
put back in his ISA, however our investigator said this wasnt possible so the complaint has 
now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered everything 
hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised what happened which 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
The issue with the shares started in November 2017 when Mr B chose to change his holding 
in Company E from bearer to registered shares. Prior to then the Halifax had acted as 
nominee for his shareholding. When offering the change Halifax wrote to shareholders 
explaining the changes that would happen and also that before making any decisions they 
should contact a professional advisor. Looking at the information I think Halifax made clear 
what the implications of this change would be and that advice should be taken. 
When Halifax was made aware that shares in Company E were no longer ISA qualifying they 
were moved to Mr Bs SDA. This was in April 2019, but it wasnt until June 2019 that Halifax 
notified Mr B of this move. Halifax have provided a copy of the notice, however Mr B said he 
never received it. I cant say why Mr B never received the notice but Im satisfied Halifax 
fulfilled their obligations, albeit sometime after the transfer had happened. 
I think it wouldve been better customer service for Halifax to have told Mr B about the 
transfer sooner, however I dont think this delay caused any financial loss. This is because 
shares in Company E couldnt be sold until 2020 due to a previous corporate event. So when 
the shares became non ISA qualifying the only option was to transfer them to Mr Bs SDA; 
which is what happened. 
Mr B has said that he shouldnt have been offered a corporate action that wasnt ISA eligible 
and that he doesnt agree he should have consulted a financial advisor. Halifax offers an 
execution only service and doesnt offer advice. In that role they need to make shareholders 
aware of things such as a corporate action. Its then up to shareholders to decide what 
action to take.   
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly 
and reasonably when moving Mr Bs shares. Thats not to say that Mr B hasnt been affected 
by what happened; he clearly has as his shares no longer have tax benefits of being in his 
ISA. However I dont think this is because of any errors made by Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman