DRN-1534809
The complaint 
Ms Vs complaint is about Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (Halifax) and its 
handling of her product switch for her mortgage. Ms V said that Halifax mislaid information 
and caused delay, and caused her financial loss as she wasnt able to access an early 
payment discount offered by a tradesman working on her property due to the delay. 
Ms V was refunded £1,955.49 extra interest she paid towards her mortgage between 
November 2018 and April 2019, and £500 for her legal costs. But she said she hadnt been 
properly compensated for the stress caused or her time dealing with the matter or the flights 
Ms V said that she took to allow valuers access by a £350 compensation payment Halifax 
also made for the trouble and upset it had caused.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The early discount payment was lost as Ms V couldnt pay early due to the delay in 
the product switch. But applications arent guaranteed and this service takes the 
position that work to be funded through borrowing shouldnt be undertaken until the 
application has completed. I note that the tradesman put a warning on one document 
that work shouldnt commence until the money was in place. I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for Halifax to pay this loss.
Ms V took two sets of flights to give the valuer access to another property to be used 
as the repayment vehicle. The valuer didnt attend the first time, apparently because 
he said the bridge to the property was impassable. But Ms V reached the property, 
and I understand third parties also accessed it. The failure to attend caused the need 
for a second trip to get the property valued. Halifax has accepted that it should be 
responsible for the costs of the second flight if Ms V provides evidence that the 
second flight was booked after the date of the valuation shouldve been carried out. 
Ms V hasnt yet provided such evidence to this service. I think this is fair and 
reasonable as Ms V would always had to pay for one set of flights to arrange the 
valuation.
Ms V wants compensation for her lost time and income. Compensation for trouble 
and upset isnt calculated on what couldve been earned, but on the amount of 
trouble and upset suffered by the consumer. Money never truly compensates for 
trouble and upset, and while Ms V has said her health was affected, there isnt any 
medical evidence showing that Halifaxs actions alone affected her health available to 
me. Ms V has said several times that she was paid £200, but the evidence shows 
she received £350 compensation for trouble and upset. I think this is fair and 
reasonable compensation in all the circumstances, as the evidence shows the 
number of calls Ms V made to progress matters, but doesnt support a finding that 
her health was affected. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Ms Vs 
complaint, Bank of Scotland Plc should refund the cost of Ms Vs second return flight if the 
evidence set out above is provided to the business. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 
2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman