DRN-3102521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) unfairly prevented them 
from moving their main mortgage to another lender because it insisted they repay their 
further advance when doing so. Mr and Mrs G didnt want to repay the further advance 
because theyd incur an early redemption charge if they did so before December 2024.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G remortgaged, on a buy to let mortgage, to TMW in 2018. Their mortgage offer, 
dated 18 June 2018, confirms the mortgage was for approximately £240,000 plus fees, had 
a term of 23 years and was set up on an interest-only basis. The product applicable was a 
two-year fixed rate.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs G took out a further advance with TMW. Their mortgage offer, dated    
16 October 2019, confirms the further advance was for approximately £71,000 plus fees, 
was for a term of 24 years and was set up on an interest-only basis. The product applicable 
was a five-year fixed rate.
In June 2020, Mr G called TMW about a new rate for the main part of the mortgage as their 
two-year fixed rate was coming to an end. However, it became clear during that conversation 
that TMW offered more favourable buy-to-let rates to new borrowers than those it offered to 
existing borrowers. Mr G didnt think that was fair so raised a complaint about it during that 
call.  In a subsequent call Mr G found out he wouldnt be able to move the main part of his 
mortgage to another lender without also redeeming the further advance. But, in doing so, 
hed incur and early redemption charge. Mr and Mrs G say they were never told TMW 
wouldnt accept another first charge on their property.
TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs G with its response to their complaint on 14 July 2020. It 
explained that it offers a range of products that support and retain existing customers as well 
as a range of products that attract new customers. But, it said, it was under no obligation to 
offer new products to existing customers and theyre under no obligation to stay. It didnt 
agree TMW had made an error.
Following contact from Mr and Mrs G, TMW wrote again on 17 July 2020. It addressed their 
concerns that theyd been told by TMW, when taking out the further advance, that it wouldnt 
be linked to the main mortgage. In that regard, it said:
your additional borrowing offer dated 16 October 2019, under section 7a that the 
total borrowing adding the further advance £71,841.30 means the new total amount 
owed is £314,436.36.
Section 7a confirms how the existing mortgage will be affected by the additional 
borrowing. In the table of figures in section 7a it confirms clearly that after the fixed 
rate on the existing mortgage ends on 31 July 2020 and assuming interest rates do 
not change, the new monthly payment will be £1,102.92. the Early Redemption 
Charges are confirmed in section 10  before 1 December 2020, the charge for this 
will be £4,310.47.
Mr and Mrs G asked us to consider their complaint. They said they want to be allowed to 
move or pay-off the main mortgage. Or theyd like to be offered a market comparable rate 
with no financial penalty.
Our investigator found no requirement for TMW to offer new interest rate products after      
Mr and Mrs Gs initial one had come to an end. He said the mortgage offer stated their 
mortgage would revert to TMWs Managed Variable Rate  also known as a standard 
variable rate  and it doesnt say they were entitled to further fixed-rate products. He said the 
mortgage terms and conditions dont say Mr and Mrs G would be entitled to new fixed rate 
products and theres no regulation that says lenders must offer additional interest rate 
products other than their standard variable rates. 
While our investigator acknowledged that most lenders do offer subsequent rate products, 
he explained the competitiveness of those products was not within the scope of his 
investigation. He said he would expect lenders to offer those products fairly, so that the 
same rates would be available to customers with similar characteristics, such as falling in a 
particular loan to value range. But he didnt think there was anything inherently unfair about 
lenders offering discounted rates to entice new borrowers. And hed not seen anything to 
indicate that TMW offered new customer rates to some existing customers but not others.
Our investigator also thought about the fairness of the early redemption charge applicable to 
Mr and Mrs Gs further advance. He said the mortgage offer does make it clear that an early 
redemption charge would be payable if Mr and Mrs G moved lenders before 1 December 
2024. He said the further advance was offered to Mr and Mrs G on a non-advised basis, so it 
was for them to decide if it met their needs.
Mr and Mrs G responded to our investigator saying, at the time of taking out the further 
advance, TMW told them the two mortgages would not be linked. And that meant that when 
the two-year fixed rate of the main part of the mortgage ended, they could look at all 
mortgage options  both with TMW and other lenders. But when the two-year fixed rate 
ended, TMW told them the mortgages were linked and theyd have to pay an early 
redemption charge on their further advance if they moved the main part of the mortgage to a 
different lender.
Our investigator said the further advance mortgage offer is clear that the borrowing would be 
added to the total mortgage balance. As the mortgage was offered on a non-advised basis, it 
was for Mr and Mrs G to ensure it met their needs. But he also said hed consider evidence 
that Mr and Mrs G were told they could move the main part of their mortgage to a different 
lender while keeping the further advance mortgage with TMW.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They said they were told the mortgages were not linked and this 
can be evidenced from the call recordings. They said theyd like their complaint to be 
escalated, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. However, before 
doing so, our investigator confirmed that hed listened to the available call recordings and not 
seen evidence Mr and Mrs G were told the mortgages were not linked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their responses to our investigators findings, Mr and Mrs G have made it clear that central 
to their complaint is their belief that they were told by TMW that the main part of their 
mortgage and the further advance would not be linked. My understanding of that is theyre saying they were led to believe they would have two distinctly separate mortgages with 
TMW, secured on the same property. 
So, to decide Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, Ive thought about whether the evidence available 
indicates that TMW told them they would have two separate mortgages secured on the 
same property. But Ive also thought about whether its fair, in the circumstances, that        
Mr and Mrs G would incur an early redemption charge on their further advance as a result of 
moving the main part of their mortgage to another lender.
Were Mr and Mrs G told theyd have two separate mortgages secured on one property?
From the call recordings that TMW have provided I havent heard that Mr and Mrs G were 
told  or led to believe  they would have two separate mortgages secured on the one 
property. I havent heard mention of the mortgages being linked or otherwise. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G feel strongly that such a conversation took place. And I dont 
think the lack of the availability of a call recording now means that a conversation about that 
didnt happen. However, TMW arent obliged to record and keep all telephone conversations 
with their customers. Its said it has provided us with all the call recordings of conversations 
with Mr and Mrs G it has from that time. 
From the calls I listened to, it appeared that Mr G had a working relationship with a particular 
representative of TMW. From what I heard  that representative appeared to have a good 
understanding of the way TMWs mortgages work. But that doesnt mean he couldnt have 
made a mistake.
While I havent heard any conversation around the linking or otherwise of the mortgages,   
Mr and Mrs G were sent documentation about the further advance. So, Ive considered that 
with regard to what Mr and Mrs G were told about whether the mortgages would be 
separate. The mortgage offer would have been sent to Mr and Mrs G in advance of them 
agreeing to proceed with the further advance.
The mortgage offer confirms the following which I think are relevant points here:
The mortgage would be secured against the property in question and it refers to the 
mortgage as additional borrowing. 
The total amount owed when the additional borrowing is added to Mr and Mrs Gs 
existing borrowing. It then goes on to illustrate the total monthly payment at specific 
points during the mortgage, based on current interest rates.
Early redemption charges are payable until 30 November 2024. It then goes on to 
illustrate the level of charge at specific date ranges. And it says Mr and Mrs G should 
check the early redemption charges applicable to their existing mortgage.
I think, from the mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs G would have understood that the further 
advance would be secured against the property. I think they would have understood that 
early redemption charges apply to the further advance and they were prompted to think 
about the early redemption charges that applied to the main part of the mortgage. 
While I can see that the mortgage offer does talk about the specifics of the further advance, 
it doesnt do so in isolation as it also talks about the total monthly payment and total amount 
owed. So, I dont think the mortgage offer would have led Mr and Mrs G to think the main 
borrowing and the further advance were separate mortgages rather than two parts of the 
same mortgage.With regard to the discharge of the security of the mortgage, TMWs buy to let mortgage 
conditions state:
6.1 Upon payment by you to us of the secured liabilities in full, we will at your request 
and cost duly discharge the mortgage and release the property charged by it. We will 
not release any other property we are holding as security until you have paid us the 
secured liabilities in full.
Given that this was a non-advised sale, I would expect Mr and Mrs G to have made all 
necessary enquiries to satisfy themselves that it was suitable for their requirements. I know 
that Mr and Mrs G were experienced property investors so I think the absence of any 
wording in the mortgage offer confirming that the mortgages were distinctly separate should 
have alerted them that they needed more information. 
Mr and Mrs G havent said they sought clarification after the mortgage offer was issued, only 
that they were told the mortgages were not linked when they made the application. And, as 
the secured liabilities are required to be paid in full before the security is discharged  a 
condition I understand to be usual throughout the mortgage industry  I dont consider it 
more likely than not that TMW would have told them otherwise. On balance, I dont think 
TMW led Mr and Mrs G to believe their mortgages would be separate while both being 
secured by the same property.
The fairness of the early redemption charge in the circumstances
I havent seen from the evidence available that Mr and Mrs G cant redeem the main part of 
their mortgage without leaving their further advance to run for its early redemption period 
before redeeming that. The problem, as I understand it, is that they cant redeem the main 
part of their mortgage with borrowing from another mortgage lender. Thats because another 
mortgage lender will want the first charge over the property and TMW already has that. 
TMWs mortgage conditions state that it will not release its charge until all secured liabilities 
are paid in full. And Mr and Mrs Gs further advance is a secured liability. So, under the 
conditions of the mortgage Mr and Mrs G agreed to, TMW have no obligation to release its 
charge in the circumstances.
From a call recording provided by TMW, I understand that Mr and Mrs G chose a five-year 
fixed rate for their further advance because they could borrow more by doing so. However, 
that wasnt advice given to Mr and Mrs G  it was still for them to decide whether the 
mortgage offer of a five-year fixed rate was best for their needs. I think they chose to 
maximize their borrowing potential in the knowledge that they were tied  by way of an early 
redemption charge  to the further advance deal for five years. And Ive seen that TMW  in 
the mortgage offer  prompted Mr and Mrs G to consider the early redemption charge of the 
main mortgage when deciding whether to accept the offer of the further advance. So, while I 
understand that Mr and Mrs G find themselves in a difficult situation, I dont think TMW are to 
blame for that.
In summary
On balance, I dont think TMW led Mr and Mrs G to believe they would have two distinctly 
separate mortgages or, by extension that they could remortgage one part to another lender. 
And I dont think the circumstances Mr and Mrs G found themselves in were created by 
TMW or that TMW should be made to waive the early redemption charge or offer them a 
more favourable rate. Overall, I dont think TMW have acted unfairly.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about The Mortgage Works 
(UK) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman