DRN-1441133
The complaint
Miss C complains that TSB Bank Limited (TSB) applied unfair charges on her current 
account, which caused her problems paying her bills. She says IT issues and problems 
cancelling direct debits also inconvenienced her. She would like the charges refunded. 
What happened
Miss C had a Classic Essentials bank account with TSB. She complained to TSB that shed 
asked it to cancel some direct debit payments, but this hadnt been done. She also said she 
was having problems with its online site and that charges had been unfairly deducted from 
her account. 
  
TSB said it couldnt find any record of Miss C requesting that direct debits be cancelled and 
asked her for more information. It accepted there had been IT problems following an 
upgrade of its system. It said Miss C had complained about this previously and it had been 
resolved with her. TSB asked her to provide more information if she was still facing issues. 
TSB said there were no fees for going overdrawn. But there was a charge for any unpaid 
direct debits of £10, called a returned item fee. It said these fees had been correctly applied 
as per the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) of the account, which Miss C had agreed to when it 
was opened. TSB said some fees had been refunded in the past as a goodwill gesture, but 
the other charges wouldnt be refunded as it hadnt made an error. 
Miss C referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
He said TSBs response to the query about cancelling direct debits and IT issues was fair 
and reasonable. He said the charges had been fairly applied in line with the accounts T&Cs. 
He said TSB had written to Miss C when she became overdrawn and asked her to get in 
touch if she was in financial difficulty and offered tips on managing her account. As Miss C 
hadnt responded to these letters our investigator didnt think TSB had made any error in 
charging the fees.
Miss C said shed been in financial difficulty throughout the period as she was part way 
through a formal arrangement to clear her debts. She said shed told TSB about her 
difficulties in the past. And had been unable to pay bills because of the charges. Miss C said 
other banks didnt make these charges, and it wasnt fair that TSB did.
As Miss C doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I know Miss C will be disappointed by my decision and the length of time she has been 
waiting for it. Due to her arrangement with her creditors it was necessary for our service to 
confirm some details about this, and this took some time. 
As there are several aspects to Miss Cs complaint, Ive considered them in turn.
IT problems and Cancellation of Direct Debits
TSB said the IT issues have already been addressed with Miss C and if there were any 
ongoing problems for her to contact it. As Miss C has now made other banking 
arrangements, effectively any issue here has been resolved. 
TSB said it had no record of any requests to cancel direct debits and asked that Miss C 
provide further details about this so it can investigate further. I think this is a reasonable 
approach from TSB. 
Bank Charges
Miss Cs account had limited features and didnt offer an overdraft or chequebook and the 
only charge was the returned item fee for unpaid direct debits. Miss C says sometimes these 
were as much as £40 a month and it isnt fair that TSB applies them. 
However, the returned item fee is clearly set out in the T&Cs of the account which were 
provided to Miss C and updated from time to time. TSBs notes show there were various 
discussions about charges with Miss C over a period of several years. And charges were 
reimbursed on several occasions. As TSB was under no obligation to refund any charges 
where theyd been correctly applied, I think this shows it has been willing to treat her fairly 
when she has spoken to it about her situation.
So, I think Miss C was clearly aware that there were charges. And, as these had been 
clearly disclosed, I cant say that they are unreasonable. And they dont appear to have been 
unfairly applied. So, I dont think TSB has treated Miss C unfairly in applying the charges it 
did.
Financial difficulty 
Miss C says she was in financial difficulty and TSB were aware of this. She says the charges 
caused her additional problems as they resulted in further direct debits being unpaid, 
generating more charges. 
Ive reviewed Miss Cs bank statements over a period of around two and a half years. I can 
see that Miss C did have difficulty managing her finances. The account quite often became 
overdrawn, despite having no overdraft facility because of debit card use. TSB didnt charge 
for this. It only occasionally applied returned item charges. It paid the direct debits if the 
account was already overdrawn or would become so, providing adequate payments into the 
account cleared on the same day.
If the account balance was insufficient for the direct debits to be paid this was often due to 
Miss C making debit card payments or transfers to another of her accounts shortly before 
the direct debits fell due. So, it does appear the cause of the problems was Miss Cs account 
management rather than the charges. And these were generally applied a few days after the 
direct debits were due, not before. 
From January 2019 TSB applied fees more often as the account became persistently 
overdrawn, with around £110 of fees being applied before it closed the account in July 2019. TSB sought recovery of the overdrawn balance and Miss C made other banking 
arrangements. When the account was closed TSB wrote off the overdrawn balance of 
£79.57.
Over the period of several years TSBs notes show conversations about how Miss C could 
manage the account to avoid charges. It refunded charges on several occasions as a 
gesture of goodwill. Assistance was offered to her in September 2018 and February 2019, 
when the notes say Miss C said she would be able to cope the following month. 
TSB also sent her letters about the overdrawn balance asking her to get in touch if she 
needed help and provided links to charities who might be able to assist her with her 
finances. 
Whilst the charges reduced the funds Miss C had available to her, I dont think they were the 
reason she was unable to pay the bills in question. I think the charges were fairly applied. 
TSB had refunded some charges in the past when it didnt have to, and it wrote off the 
overdrawn balance. So, I think TSB has treated Miss C fairly and sympathetically and I wont 
be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman