DRN-3870537
The complaint
Ms L complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund over £6,000 she lost as 
part of a romance scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms L fell victim to a romance scam in January 2021 and was 
manipulated into sending money to an individual she met online. The scammer said he was 
in the army and asked her to make payments in order to facilitate an early discharge and pay 
for flights so he could return home.
Ms L made the following payments from her Starling account:
7 Jan 2021 - £1262 to Van Rodde Mark (GB)
9 Jan 2021 - £1850 to Van Rodde Mark (GB)
13 Jan 2021  £2000 to Yasin Uner (Turkey)
14 Jan 2021 - £1000 to Yasin Uner (Turkey)
After realising she had been scammed, Ms L reported the fraud to Starling, who declined to 
refund the money she lost.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ls complaint in part. She said that the first two payments were 
covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) such that Starling would 
be liable to refund 50%. This was because it failed to provide an effective warning, and 
because Ms L didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payee was legitimate.
In terms of the remaining international payments, the investigator didnt think Starling would 
be liable to refund these payments as they did not fall within the scope of the CRM Code, 
and they wouldnt have appeared unusual enough to warrant an intervention by the bank. 
Starling accepted this and agreed to settle the complaint in line with the investigators 
recommendations, but Ms L disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms L has fallen victim to a scam here, not that she authorised the 
payments made between 7 and 14 January 2021. Starling has also accepted that it 
would be liable to refund 50% of the first two payments under the CRM Code for failing 
to provide an effective warning, so I dont consider it necessary to explore or comment 
on this any further. What remains in dispute, however, is whether Ms L had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments to be genuine, such that she should receive a full 
refund, as well as whether Starling should have intervened in the final two payments that 
arent covered by the Code.  
In terms of the first two payments that fall within the scope of the CRM Code, Im not 
persuaded Ms L had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine 
purposes. I appreciate that romance scams are often successful because the scammer 
is able to build trust with their victim over a prolonged period of time. But even bearing 
this in mind, I dont think the reasons Ms L was given for sending money were realistic or 
plausible. A soldier who is sent overseas in action cannot simply pay money to be 
discharged from the military, and neither is it plausible that they would have to pay for 
their own flight either, or that doing so would enable them to avoid quarantine measures. 
Ms L was also paying money to accounts held in the name of different individuals, which 
ought reasonably to have led her to believe that something wasnt right. I acknowledge 
that Ms L did question the scammer about the different payees, but Im not persuaded 
she received a clear or plausible enough explanation in response that would have 
reasonably assuaged those concerns. So, Im satisfied Starling can fairly rely on this 
exception under the Code in order to limit reimbursement to 50%.
In terms of the international payments, these would not fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code as it only applies to transfers made between GBP-denominated UK-domiciled 
accounts. But Ive considered whether Starling should have done more to prevent Ms L 
from falling victim to the scam in line with its obligations outside of the Code, as there are 
some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of 
character.
However, having reviewed the two payments of £2,000 and £1,000 that Ms L made, I 
dont think these were enough in themselves to have warranted an intervention by 
Starling, as they were not so unusual as to amount to a significant deviation in the way 
the account was normally run. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Starling liable for these payments, because I wouldnt have expected it to block them or 
make further enquiries before agreeing to release the funds. 
In terms of Starlings efforts to recover the funds, I can see that it reached out to the 
beneficiary banks soon after being informed of the fraud, but was unfortunately unable to 
retrieve the funds. So, I dont think there was anything more it could have done to try and 
recover the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Starling Bank Limited 
to:
Refund 50% of the first two payments covered under the CRM Code.
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the point Starling declined Ms Ls claim under 
the Code until the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 Jack Ferris
Ombudsman