DRN-3235269
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has supplied him with two contradictory sets of 
figures in relation to his redeemed mortgage. He wants Barclays to provide accurate 
information for a court case.
What happened
Mr M jointly held a Barclays mortgage with his ex-partner. The evidence available indicates 
the mortgage started in 1992 on an interest only basis and was converted to capital 
repayment in 2001. The mortgage was redeemed in 2017. Mr M says he asked Barclays for 
details of the capital and interest that was paid on the mortgage account in 2019. He says he 
needed this information to be accurate because it was for a court case. He says the 
information Barclays supplied was incomplete.
Barclays says it previously responded to a complaint about this in 2017. In its final response 
letter of July 2017, it said it has sent him copies of statements from the start of the mortgage 
to the date it was redeemed and from those Mr M can see the interest and capital he paid. 
But it offered him £20 for the cost of phone calls and £150 for the inconvenience.
Mr M has acknowledged that Barclays provided figures about the payments made and the 
interest charged on his mortgage. But he says there are discrepancies between the figures 
Barclays provided in 2017 and those it provided in 2019. In particular, he says:
He doesnt know which set of figures to rely on because they dont match.
The mortgage was converted to repayment from interest only in 2001, but the 
balance brought forward at that time was not the same as the amount borrowed in 
1992. He says it should have been the same because no capital was repaid before 
conversion.
The balance brought forward to a specific part of Barclays calculation is not correct 
when deducting the amount Barclays says was paid from the previous balance and 
the interest charged.
Barclays has acknowledged that the information it has provided  due to the passage of time 
 is incomplete. It has supplied summary screen shots for each year from 1992 to when the 
mortgage was converted with the exception of 2001. It has also provided transaction 
statements from August 2001 through to May 2017, when the mortgage was redeemed. 
Each time it supplied figures to Mr M, it also supplied a summary showing totals of mortgage 
interest, payments, part redemptions and other figures. But both times these summaries 
were provided they were split into two parts  August 2001 to July 2009 and July 2009 to 
May 2017.
Mr M asked us to consider his complaint. Our investigator asked Barclays to confirm which 
of the sets of figures it provided Mr M should rely on. And she asked Barclays to write to    
Mr M explaining the figures as much as possible. It confirmed that the 2019 figures were the 
most accurate. And it wrote to Mr M offering a manual calculation for the missing data from 
2001  giving an estimate based on the likely balance and interest rate at the time. At that 
time, Barclays told our investigator it was prepared to offer Mr M £200 in respect of the 
delays providing the information.
Mr M didnt accept Barclays offer and said there were still discrepancies that Barclays 
needed to explain. Our investigator asked Barclays for further detail and some more 
historical information to see if that may offer an explanation to the discrepancies.
With regard to the difference between the amount borrowed in 1992 and the amount brought 
forward in 2001, Barclays gave the following explanation:
For the purpose of interest calculation, the system uses the outstanding balance, 
excluding any accrued interest. With this in mind, the explanation is likely that the 
balance quoted is higher than the original advance due to the daily accrued interest. I 
appreciate in Mr Marshalls email, he mentions the reason for the increase as a fee 
for the conversion. However, Im not in a position to confirm this.
But Barclays was unable to provide any information which explained the other discrepancies 
Mr M has complained about. 
Our investigator wrote to Mr M with her findings. While she recognised the impact on Mr M, 
our investigator said theres no expectation from regulation or law for a business to store 
information indefinitely, so she didnt conclude it was unfair for Barclays not to do so. Our 
investigator said there are a number of reasons why the balance of an interest only 
mortgage could change over the years. But we dont provide an auditing service so arent 
able to explain what the reason is in this case.
Our investigator concluded by saying she thought Barclays has done all it could to provide 
Mr M with accurate information. She noted that Mr M has asked for subscription costs that 
hes paid for the bundling of his court documents to be refunded by Barclays. But she said 
shed not seen evidence to suggest that Barclays was the cause of the delayed court 
hearing. And she thought Barclays offer to pay Mr M £200 was reasonable in all the 
circumstances for the inconvenience caused by the inaccurate information it provided.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings. He said he wants Barclays calculations to 
show how his payments and interest equate to the original £66,500 borrowed. And he asked 
for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding Mr Ms complaint Ive thought about whether Barclays should have done more to 
satisfy Mr Ms request. Mr M has made comments after our investigator gave her opinion 
and Ive thought about them carefully before reaching my decision.
Which set of figures should Mr M rely on?
Ive seen that Barclays has provided two different sets of figures to show how much Mr M 
and his ex-partner paid and how much interest was charged over the life of the mortgage. 
One was supplied in 2017  referred to by Mr M as set A  and one supplied in 2019  
referred to by Mr M as set B. And Ive seen  as Mr M has said  that the two sets of figures do not match. So, its understandable that he has concerns about the accuracy and 
which set he should rely on.
However, as Ive said above, Barclays has provided a transaction list breaking down the 
payments and has confirmed that set B provided in 2019 is the one he should rely on. I 
accept that Mr M has specific concerns about that set of figures and its summary, and I will 
move on to my thoughts about those concerns. Before I do, Id like to explain we have no 
way of examining Barclays systems. Nor do we provide an auditing service. In this case, 
that means I cannot verify that Barclays has provided all the relevant accounting data it has 
on Mr Ms redeemed mortgage. Nor will I attempt to make a calculation based on all the 
accounting data Barclays has provided, to check that its summary is correct.
It is not uncommon that, over the life of a mortgage, data is lost due to changes in computer 
systems or when a mortgage is passed from one lender to another. I dont think that means 
a lender doesnt have a duty to ensure the interest it applies to a mortgage is correct or that 
the payments it receives arent correctly deducted from the outstanding balance. 
Mr M seems to think a lender should have a full history of payment and interest rates 
throughout the life of the mortgage so that it can use that data to calculate the balance 
outstanding at any given time. But I think its more likely that it relies on its current data to 
show a balance and applies payments and interest to that balance to obtain a new one. And 
because of that, the historical data becomes less essential  aside from when it is requested 
for evidential purposes, such as this.
In any event, I accept that there are gaps in the data Barclays is able to provide and that it 
has confirmed Mr M should rely on the figures it provided in 2019.  
The balance brought forward in 2001
Barclays was able to provide summary screen shots for each year before 2001, up to 2000. 
Those screens did not show the monthly transactions, so it isnt possible to say with any 
degree of certainty how the balance in 2001 was arrived at  especially because the 
summary sheet for immediately before the conversion in 2001 is unavailable.
Mr M has said the balance at 2001 should have been the same as the amount borrowed 
because up until 2001 the mortgage was on an interest only basis. I understand his theory in 
that regard, but, in practice, there are many reasons that the balance can change on an 
interest only mortgage. For example, there may have been arrears at some point or there 
may have been fees added for a late payment, an administrative service or a new rate 
product.
As the data available does not show the monthly transactions on the account from that time, 
it isnt possible to know the cause of the change in balance. But the fact that there is a 
change doesnt lead me to suspect that its likely that an error has occurred. Thats because 
of all the reasons the balance may change on an interest only mortgage.
The account summary inconsistencies post 2001
Mr M says it isnt clear from Barclays calculations, having added interest to his stated 
balance and deducted all payments, how it reached the later balance figure.
Barclays provided a summary from the transactions post 2001 in two parts  the first from  
27 August 2001 to 24 July 2009 and the second from 25 July 2009 to 15 May 2017, when 
the mortgage was redeemed. Having considered the summaries, I agree that the balance stated on 27 August 2001, plus the stated interest added until 24 July 2009, minus the 
payments made before 24 July 2009 is not equal to the balance carried forward to              
25 July 2009. The difference is £55.92 in favour of Barclays. I havent seen any other 
apparent errors.
There may be valid reasons for that difference that cannot be seen from the summaries 
Barclays has provided. In this instance, given that Barclays has access to the monthly 
transactions, I think its less reasonable that it is unable to explain the difference. However, it 
has been unable to and I dont think anything I could direct Barclays to do would change 
that. Nonetheless, the uncertainty in this regard has caused distress and inconvenience to 
Mr M. 
Other points Ive considered
Mr M says his court case has been on hold for a number of years because of the time hes 
been dealing with the inaccuracy of Barclays figures. And hes had to pay for the bundling of 
court documents as a result  so hed like Barclays to reimburse him for that cost.
I understand that Mr M wanted to be certain the data he took to court from Barclays was 
accurate. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest fully accurate data was absolutely necessary 
or expected by the court. I dont think the discrepancies considered in this complaint are 
substantial by any reasonable measure applicable here. 
The data Barclays has said Mr M should rely on when asked to confirm in 2021 is the same 
as it supplied to Mr M in 2019. As Im not persuaded the apparent inaccuracies actually 
prevented the case from being heard by the court  or that it hasnt actually been heard by 
now  I dont think I can conclude Barclays has caused the delay since 2019. So, I dont 
think Barclays needs to pay for any costs associated with the delay.
In October 2021 Barclays provided a manual calculation in response to a request from our 
investigator. Mr M says this included many errors. While I think this was a genuine attempt 
by the Barclays case handler to explain the account transactions, I think it only added further 
confusion and increased doubt in the data previously provided. Having looked at all the data 
and the circumstances under which it was provided, including Barclays assurances, I think 
the data it provided in 2019 is as accurate as Barclays is likely to be able to provide.
In summary, while I understand Mr Ms wish for accuracy, I havent seen that was required 
by the court. I accept that data can be lost over the life of a mortgage, but I havent seen 
here that means Mr M and his ex-wife are likely to have paid more than they should have to 
Barclays. Barclays has offered to pay Mr M £200 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Thats in addition to an amount awarded for a similar complaint he 
made in 2017. Under the circumstances, I think thats a reasonable offer to resolve Mr Ms 
complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Ms complaint, Barclays should pay him the £200 it offered since Mr M 
brought his complaint to us for consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
it should pay him the £200 it has offered.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman