DRN-2669165
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank plc (trading as first direct) wont refund money she 
paid to an advertising company. She feels she has been scammed as shes not received 
what she paid for.
The bank has said it believes the matter is a civil dispute between Mrs B and her supplier 
and so isnt in a position to help  
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs B was contacted by someone claiming to work for a big supermarket, 
offering the opportunity to advertise in its magazine. Mrs B had recently started a new 
business and was interested in the opportunity, and so a meeting was arranged.
A representative attended her home and after going though details about the advertising Mrs 
B decided to take up the offer. She signed a contract and made an initial payment of £78 
using her debit card. She then set up a monthly standing order for £78. She understood her 
advert would appear in the next edition of the supermarkets magazine.
But by October thered still been no advert. Mrs B was in contact with the company shed 
paid, and it kept providing assurances, but nothing ever appeared. She was told at one 
stage that it wasnt the supermarkets magazine that her advert would appear in, but a free 
leaflet which would be distributed in stores. But the advert still didnt appear.
Mrs B contacted the supermarket direct and was told it didnt have a relationship with the 
company Mrs B had signed up with. She then started to look online for more information 
about the company and found reports from other people saying they thought theyd been 
scammed.
By this time Mrs B had paid £312 to the company (the initial card payment and three 
standing order payments). She contacted the bank to report that shed been scammed.
HSBC looked into what had happened but said it couldnt help. It felt the matter was a civil 
dispute between Mrs B and the company and so it wouldnt be able to refund her or help 
further.
Mrs B disagreed and so brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened and thought the bank had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances.
She acknowledged that Mrs B hadnt received what shed paid for and that the company 
didnt appear to have fulfilled its side of the agreement. But she noted details such as: the 
company accepting card payments, it being registered on Companies House, contracts and 
agreements being signed, ongoing communications between Mrs B and the company and 
the acceptance of small payments (rather than single, large ones). She thought these 
characteristics pointed to the company being legitimate, albeit one that treated Mrs B badly. 
And she could see there was some evidence to suggest there had been some confusion 
around the selling process and what Mrs B was signing up to, in terms of the parties 
involved. And so she believed HSBC had handled the claim of fraud fairly, when it said this 
appeared to be a civil dispute.
She did note that HSBC ought to have raised a chargeback for Mrs B on the grounds of 
goods/services not received. The bank agreed it ought to have done so and agreed to 
refund the card payment and to pay interest on that refund at 8% simple per year. The 
chargeback rules dont apply to standing orders though, and so no recommendation for a 
refund was made there.
Mrs B was unhappy with the outcome. She said that she had clearly been scammed as the 
company had misled her about who they were and then had failed to deliver what shed paid 
for. She felt the circumstances of her case  backed up by the reviews of other customers of 
the company  clearly indicated shed been the victim of a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time.
Theres no dispute about whether the payments were authorised. Mrs B willingly made each 
of the payments to the company with which she was dealing. And so the starting point is that 
she is responsible for them, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of her account.
The initial card payment
Theres little for me to comment on regarding this specific payment, given the bank has now 
agreed to refund it. I agree with the investigator that the bank ought to have raised a 
chargeback at the time Mrs B raised her fraud claim with it. It seems more likely than not 
such a chargeback would have been successful, and Mrs B would have received the money 
back.
HSBC has now agreed to refund that first payment and to pay interest on the amount at 8% 
simple per year. And I find that to be a fair and reasonable settlement in respect of that 
payment. But the same rules dont apply to the other payments, made by way of standing 
order, that Mrs B authorised.
The standing order payments
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which HSBC has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mrs B made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances of the payments Mrs B made and, in particular, whether HSBC 
ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it 
doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Im in agreement with our investigator and the bank where each has said that Mrs Bs claim 
appears to be a civil dispute, rather than a scam. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mrs B and I can tell she feels very strongly that shes been scammed. But I do find the CRM 
Code is quite clear on when it does and doesnt apply. And in all the circumstances of 
Mrs Bs case I find shes been poorly treated by what is an otherwise legitimate supplier.
I can see how the company Mrs B engaged with seems to have operated with some sharp 
practices: misrepresenting its offerings at initial contact; being slow to respond to emails and 
then giving incomplete information when a reply was forthcoming, and so forth. And, of 
course, Mrs B hasnt received what she paid for.
But, like the investigator, I find there are numerous elements to show a legitimate company 
is involved here, albeit one that lets its customers down. It is true that its registered on 
Companies House and is still trading. Representatives of the company visited Mrs B and a 
contract was signed. Those contracts were in the proper name of the company and there 
was no attempt at hiding that it was not the supermarket that Mrs B was dealing with. Emails 
were exchanged about the services offered and agreed, including proofs for the advert she 
wanted placed.
When this service considers scam cases and the application of the CRM Code, were, 
broadly speaking, looking at the involvement of a malicious individual(s) that are working to 
trick a customer out of their money. That might be through impersonating a bank, 
intercepting legitimate invoices and changing payee details, advertising/selling goods and 
services that dont exist at all. Mrs Bs circumstances dont align with those situations and I 
dont find that the CRM Code ought to apply in her case. There might be cases where 
theres persuasive evidence that a seemingly legitimate company is in fact a scam operation. 
But I dont find such persuasive evidence is present here. And so Im not telling HSBC to 
refund the payments Mrs B made by standing order.
Mrs B should still be able to pursue her claim elsewhere, particularly through small claims 
court or through an MCOL (money claim online). I cant speak to the success of such a 
claim, but those avenues would appear to be open to Mrs B.
But given the payments were properly authorised, and the CRM Code doesnt apply, I cant 
see that there are grounds to say that HSBC ought to bear responsibility for Mrs Bs loss or 
that it was wrong to not refund her under the CRM Code.  
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
refund the £78 Mrs B paid by card; and
pay interest on that amount at 8% simple from the date of its final response to the 
date of settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc in part.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman