DRN-1830265
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Holiday Extras Limited mis-sold them a travel insurance policy. 
Theyre represented by a solicitor, who Ill call B.
What happened
In November 2016, Mrs D called Holiday Extras to get a quote for a travel insurance policy. 
The call handler provided quotes for both single and annual policies. Mrs D called back to 
take up the single trip option for a holiday she had planned for the following September. 
Unfortunately, while Mr and Mrs D were on that holiday, Mrs D suffered a fall and severely 
injured her arm. She made a claim to the insurer for her medical expenses at that point.
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs D made a claim on the policy for personal total disablement 
(PTD), as the accident had left her with lasting damage. That claim was considered and 
ultimately settled by the insurer. 
However, Mr and Mrs D were unhappy because they learned the PTD cover limit was £5000 
for policyholders over the age of 65, while it was £30,000 for policyholders between 18 and 
64 years old. Mrs D said shed specifically asked about whether the policy covered over 70s 
and had been told it did. She said Holiday Extras shouldve pointed out the lower cover limit. 
And she said if it had, she and Mr D wouldve been able to take out an alternative policy that 
did meet their needs. They felt Holiday Extras had mis-sold the policy and complained.
Holiday Extras said the policy had been sold properly. It said the call handler had highlighted 
key policy limits but wouldnt have been able to highlight every feature of the policy. It added 
that this was why it asked policyholders to check their documents and offered a 14-day 
cooling-off period. Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt Holiday Extras should pay the difference between the lower and upper 
PTD limit.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Hed listened to 
calls between Mrs D and Holiday Extras. He noted Mrs D had been advised to check the 
policy documents and check it was right for her. He also felt it was most likely Mr and Mrs D 
had received the policy documentation. And he thought it was most likely Mrs D was aware 
that Holiday Extras wouldnt discuss all of the policy features and benefits during the sales 
call.
B disagreed. They were concerned whether Holiday Extras had provided us with the correct 
calls. They said while Mr and Mrs D had received the schedule, theyd never been sent a 
policy welcome pack. They didnt agree that Mrs D had been informed that not all features of 
the policy would be outlined during the sales call. And they didnt think it was acceptable that 
such a significant limitation on cover hadnt been outlined during the call.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Holiday Extras has treated Mr and Mrs D fairly. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear about the accident Mrs D suffered in 2017 and about the lasting effect the 
injuries have had on her life and health. I dont doubt how difficult this time has been for both 
Mr and Mrs D and Im glad their insurance claim has now been finalised.
But in making my decision, I need to decide if I think Holiday Extras failed to meet its 
regulatory obligations or misled Mr and Mrs D about the extent of cover when it sold their 
policy. And I dont think it did.
Holiday Extras didnt give advice about the policy when it sold it, so it didnt need to check it 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds needs. It did need to ensure it gave Mr and Mrs D clear, fair 
and not misleading information about the policy though, so they could make an informed 
choice about whether to take it out and decide if it was right for them. It also needed to let 
them know about the key features of the policy and highlight any significant or unusual 
terms.
Ive carefully listened to the sales calls between Mrs D and two of Holiday Extras call 
handlers. Im satisfied these calls do relate to the purchase of the policy Mr and Mrs D have 
complained about. During the first call, the call handler explained the key limits on cover  
the cancellation, medical expenses and personal possessions limits. She checked that Mr 
and Mrs D were eligible for the policy and she went through medical screening with Mrs D, to 
ensure medical cover was up to date. Mrs D did ask whether policyholders aged over 70 
would be covered and was informed that both she and Mr D were within the policy limits. 
This information was right  Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the policy and for the benefits of 
it. 
So Im satisfied the call handler did explain the key features of the policy to Mrs D and 
checked that both she and Mr D were eligible for it. She also checked with Mrs D how shed 
like any policy documents sent out. Mrs D chose for the documents to be sent by post.
I appreciate B believes the lower PTD limit for over 65s was a significant limitation on the 
cover provided by the policy and shouldve been drawn to Mrs Ds attention during the call. I 
dont agree. While, as Ive explained, we do expect significant or unusual terms to be 
highlighted at the point of sale and in policy documents, I dont think the PTD benefit is so 
significant that it needed to be specifically discussed during the call. I think the call handler 
focused on the main features of the policy that would be the most likely to influence a 
policyholders decision on whether or not to take it up.
The PTD limits for both over and under 65s was also clearly set out in the policy booklet. I 
appreciate B says Mr and Mrs D never received their welcome pack. Its unfortunate that 
given the time thats passed, Holiday Extras no longer has a copy of its postal log to show if 
the documents were sent. As the policy was sold almost four years ago though, I dont think 
thats unreasonable.
B acknowledges that Mr and Mrs D did receive their policy schedule, which wouldve been 
printed and posted shortly after they bought the policy. It seems more likely than not that the 
policy documents were printed and posted at the same time or a short while later. And given 
Mr and Mrs D bought their policy around 10 months before they planned to travel, it seems 
ensuring they had travel insurance in good time was important to them. So I think theyd 
have likely chased up the policy documents if they hadnt been received between November 
2016 when the policy was taken out and September 2017, when they travelled. This means, on balance, I think its most likely they did receive a welcome pack and wouldve been able 
to check the available cover limits.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I dont think Holiday Extras has done 
anything wrong that it needs to put right. So Im not making any award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman