DRN-3122162
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the sale of her short-term income protection policy by 
Lifesearch Partners Limited.
 What happened
In November 2019, Lifesearch arranged for Mrs M to take out a new income protection 
policy with an insurer (that Ill call Policy Z). The policy provided £800 monthly benefit for 
a monthly cost of £20.80, and had a deferred period of four weeks. Therefore, in the event 
of a valid claim, benefit would be payable after four weeks. Benefit was payable for up to 
two years. The premiums were guaranteed but rose with age.
However, Mrs M was led to believe by the adviser that the policy would provide back to 
day one cover. In other words, when a valid claim was made, benefit would be 
backdated to the date she stopped work. Mrs M took out the policy on that basis.
After having an accident, Mrs M stopped work and made a claim. It was at that point that 
she found out the policy would only pay benefit after four weeks. She complained to 
Lifesearch about the sale of the policy.
Lifesearch accepted that the policy had been mis-sold. It offered to pay Mrs M £800 
compensation. It also offered to refund the premiums Mrs M had paid, if she chose to 
cancel the policy. Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Lifesearchs offer was reasonable, so she didnt think it needed 
to take any further action.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2021. Heres what I said:
Its not in dispute that Lifesearch mis-sold the policy. Mrs M specifically wanted back to 
day one cover and was led to believe the policy offered this. Instead, the policy would 
only pay benefit after the end of the four-week deferred period.
As our investigator has explained, when a financial business does something wrong, we 
aim (as far as possible) to place the consumer in the position they wouldve been in, if not 
for the error. So Ive thought about what wouldve happened if the policy hadnt been mis-
sold.
I think its clear from the calls Ive listened to that having back to day one cover was 
important to Mrs M. And so if shed understood that Policy Z didnt offer this, I think its 
more likely than not that she wouldve taken out a different policy elsewhere that did offer 
this cover. I dont know how much that policy wouldve cost, but I think it wouldve been 
more than what Mrs M paid for Policy Z.
I understand that to now take out a new short-term income protection policy would be 
far more expensive than it would have been at the time of sale, due to the impact of 
Covid-19. Lifesearch did some quotes and said a new policy would be around three 
times more expensive.
Mrs M made a claim under Policy Z, and this was accepted. However, she didnt receive 
any benefit for the first month she was off work due to the four-week deferred period. 
Lifesearch thought her financial loss was therefore £800 (one months benefit) and has 
offered her this amount in compensation. In terms of known financial loss, I think this was 
reasonable because if shed taken out a back to day one policy elsewhere, she wouldve 
received that extra £800.
However, Mrs M is understandably concerned that if she keeps Policy Z in force and 
needs to make another claim, she again wont receive any benefit for the first four weeks 
and so there may be a future financial loss.
The difficulty with this is that we dont know that Mrs M will ever need to make another 
claim under Policy Z. Though I think we do need to recognise that Mrs M wanted back to 
day one cover, and she cant now take that out for the same price that wouldve been 
available to her in November 2019.
Given there are some unknown variables here, I think a reasonable solution would be for 
Lifesearch to also pay compensation equivalent to the cost of two years cover for 
another short-term income protection policy. The policy should provide back to day one 
cover, and have a monthly benefit of £800. Lifesearch would be able to deduct from this 
amount the premium that Mrs M wouldve likely paid over a two-year period, had such a 
policy been taken out in November 2019.
Mrs M can then cancel Policy Z, and use the compensation to take out a new policy 
with back to day one cover if she wishes.
I think the mis-sale has also caused Mrs M unnecessary worry and inconvenience, and 
so I also intend to require Lifesearch to pay her £150 compensation.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I reached a final decision.
Lifesearch responded with details of a quote it had obtained. 
Mrs Ms representative responded to say they cant find a policy that provides back to 
day one cover. And that they dont know what the cost of the policy wouldve been in 
2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lifesearch has provided this service with a quote for the current cost of a short-term income 
protection policy with back to day one cover. The cost of that cover over a two-year period 
is £1,428.12. 
I said in my provisional decision that Lifesearch would be able to deduct from this figure the 
premiums that Mrs M wouldve likely paid over a two-year period, had such a policy been 
taken out in 2019. 
Lifesearch hasnt been able to retrospectively find out what an insurer wouldve charged 
Mrs M for back to day one cover in 2019. Mrs M makes this point too. However, I think it should be able to estimate this based on its knowledge of Mrs Ms husbands cover at that 
time. I say that because in 2019 Mrs Ms husband held back to day one cover with another 
insurer for £805 monthly benefit. This was for a monthly cost of £31.72. 
After some further discussion with Lifesearch, its agreed to use this premium as an estimate 
of what Mrs M mightve paid. Over a two-year period, this amounts to £761.28. Therefore 
£1,428.12 minus £761.28 equals £666.84. 
I also said that Lifesearchs previous offer of £800 was fair as this took into account the 
known financial loss to Mrs M. In addition, I said it should pay £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to her. Therefore, total compensation would be £1,616.84.
Mrs M says she cant find a policy that provides back to day one cover. However, as Ive 
said, Lifesearch has provided this service with a quote for such cover. If Mrs M would like 
details of this cover, she should contact our investigator.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lifesearch Partners Limited to pay 
Mrs M total compensation of £1,616.84.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman