DRN-3414522
The complaint
Mr K says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 3 loans provided by AvantCredit to Mr K between March 2016 and 
March 2017. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Repayment
1 August 2019 £1000 36 Months £46.14
2 February 2020 £2000 24 Months £122.37
3 July 2020 £2200 36 Months £94.53
Our investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint and thought he shouldnt have been given the 
loans. AvantCredit disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ks complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr K would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that AvantCredit wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr K ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
K. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way?
AvantCredit has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr K on the 3 occasions it 
carried out checks. It asked Mr K to declare his income and expenditure. It verified his 
income on each occasion and carried out a credit search to check some of his expenditure. 
Based on those checks AvantCredit thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the term of the loans and repayment amounts, I dont think the checks were 
proportionate on each occasion. This is because Mr K had told AvantCredit he was in rented 
accommodation but then declared to it that he wasnt paying any rent. In addition to this the 
amount of credit commitments AvantCredit saw on its credit search on each occasion was a 
lot more than Mr K had declared his other expenses to be. I think AvantCredit ought to have 
carried out further checks on each occasion. This is so that it could assure itself that Mr K 
could afford the loan repayments for the loans in a sustainable way.
Mr K has provided copies of his bank statements from the time leading up to his application 
for loan 1 to AvantCredit and I have been also able to look at them. I can see that Mr K was 
paying a monthly amount of £675 for rent, something that AvantCredit didnt account for in 
its affordability assessment. On these statements there are also many gambling 
transactions. It is clear on seeing all of this that Mr K had a lot more in expenses going out 
than the verified monthly income he held. I think Mr K was having problems managing his 
finances at that time and if it had seen this, I think its more likely AvantCredit wouldnt have 
made a decision to agree to the first loan to him. Had AvantCredit carried out proportionate 
checks, it would have seen that the lending was unsustainable.Mr Ks finances did not improve in this short period of time between him taking out loan 1 
and loans 2 and 3. Mr K was still gambling heavily and there was still a significant shortfall in 
the amounts he was spending and how much he was earning. So, it follows that I dont think 
that it should have given Mr K these loans either. 
AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right  what AvantCredit needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1-3 from Mr Ks credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC should 
put things right for Mr K as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman