DRN-1528530
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Bank of Scotland (T/A Halifax) dealt with an international 
payment that credited his account.
What happened
Mr R holds a number of accounts with Halifax. In August 2019 he sold some shares and 
arranged to transfer the revenue into his Halifax account. The funds were in dollars so Mr R 
understood the revenue would have to be converted to sterling on crediting his UK account.
Before making his transfer, Mr R wanted to know how much it would cost so he could decide 
whether to use his Halifax account or another account he held elsewhere that may have 
offered him a preferential rate.
Mr R checked Halifaxs website to see how much hed be charged when the funds reached 
his account. He said it only mentioned it would charge £7 per payment. 
Mr R went ahead with his transfer and when the payment credited his Halifax account it 
arrived as two separate payments. So, Mr R was expecting to be charged £14. But the 
money that credited his account was significantly less than that. 
Mr R contacted Halifax to complain and query the shortfall in the money that had credited his 
account. He told Halifax he thought it should have contacted him prior to the conversion of 
his funds into sterling if it was going to deduct more than the £7 per payment charge it was 
showing online. And he felt Halifaxs website was misleading as it wasnt transparent about 
its charges.
After Halifax investigated what had happened it told him it had charged him £7 per payment. 
It said it had used the Interbank Market rate to convert Mr Rs incoming funds into sterling. 
And it explained it had also applied a commission charge of 3.20% to both payments that 
had credited his account. Halifax said it wouldnt contact a customer before converting funds 
because that was a passive entry, which didnt involve communication prior to completing 
payment. So, it didnt think it had made any errors in processing Mr Rs incoming payment. 
And it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response to his complaint Mr R referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. They didnt think Halifax had acted fairly 
or reasonably and agreed that it hadnt been clear on its website about the charges it would 
deduct from Mr Rs international payment. 
In order to resolve this complaint our investigator recommended that Halifax reimburse Mr R 
the commission charge it had applied. They also thought it should pay interest on that 
refund. Mr R agreed with our investigators recommendations. But Halifax disagreed and 
asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Halifax provided sufficient information about how much 
it would charge Mr R to receive his international payment.
Mr R told our service that, prior to making his international transfer, he consulted Halifaxs 
website to ascertain how much hed be charged once his payment credited his account. With 
that in mind Ive considered whether the information about the charges applied to 
international payments is presented in a clear and consistent manner.
On its website I can see under the charges and withdrawals section that Halifax explains it 
will subject international payments that credit a customers account to a £7 charge after the 
funds have been converted into sterling in circumstances where the credit exceeds £100. 
Theres no mention under this section of the website of any additional charges being 
deducted from an international payment that credits a customers account.
However, if a customer clicks on the send money outside the UK section about halfway 
down that webpage theres a section called receiving a payment. Under this section Halifax 
states:
Please be aware that the bank sending the payment may use an agent bank to pass the 
payment on to Halifax. The agent bank may make a charge for their service, which will be 
deducted from the payment sent. This will reduce the payment Halifax receives.
Further down that page Halifax goes on to set out a table in which it provides an indication of 
the maximum current percentage difference between its standard exchange rate for sending 
money outside the UK or in a foreign currency and the rate at which it buys and sells 
currency in the foreign exchange markets (the wholesale rate).
This contradicts the charges and withdrawal section of Halifaxs website, which is silent 
about any additional charges that might be applied. So, a customer will only be aware there 
may be charges over and above the £7 charge per payment if they see the receiving a 
payment section of Halifaxs website.
The receiving a payment section of Halifaxs website isnt hyperlinked to the charges and 
withdrawals section. So, if a customer only looks at that page on Halifaxs website they 
wouldnt see any information about additional possible deductions Halifax might apply. And 
they therefore wouldnt necessarily be aware a commission charge could be applied. 
I think the two sections of Halifaxs website are misleading, confusing and contradictory. And 
I think that puts a customer, such as Mr R here, at a disadvantage when trying to ascertain 
what it would cost to receive an international payment. 
I appreciate that a customer may gain a better understanding of possible charges by 
searching through Halifaxs website. But I dont think thats a fair expectation to place on a 
customer. I say this because, once a customer has located the information they require, I 
wouldnt expect them to continue to search Halifaxs website to see if theres information 
elsewhere on the site that may either contradict or expand on what theyve already read. 
It may, of course, be industry practice for a bank to charge a commission on international 
payments. But our service would expect Halifax to have presented clear and consistent 
information on its website about its practice of applying a commission charge to an 
international payment crediting a customers account. And Im not persuaded it did. I think the information Halifax presents on its website is confusing and contradictory. And, 
overall, Im not satisfied it properly explained the charges it applied or gave Mr R enough 
information about the deductions it would make from his payment. I think he was misled by 
the information he saw. And I think that was unfair.
Halifax has told our service that the account terms and conditions refer to the fees it applies 
to international payments. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect a customer to 
cross reference information presented on Halifaxs website with their account terms in order 
to check the consistency of the information. And I can understand why a customer would rely 
on the information presented online, which is up to date.
Halifax said Mr R had an understanding of the charges applied to international payments 
through previous transfers hed made using his Halifax account. It directed our investigators 
attention to a query Mr R raised with it in April 2015, which involved concerns about the 
amount of money that had credited his account following an international payment.
I understand the point Halifax is making here but I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to conclude that because Mr R queried an international payment four years earlier this made 
him aware that the charges he would incur would exceed £7. I say this particularly given the 
content of Halifaxs website, which post dates the query Mr R raised with Halifax in 2015.
Mr R has told our service that hes used his Halifax account in the past to receive 
international payments. But he said these payments were made by his employer. So, he had 
no reason to pay attention to any charges incurred because he had no control over the 
transactions in question. I have no reason to doubt what Mr R says here.
I havent seen enough evidence to allow me to safely conclude that Mr R was aware that 
Halifax would charge commission in relation to the payment thats the subject of this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Mr R told our service hes incurred a loss in transferring his funds to his Halifax account. He 
says, if hed been aware Halifax would apply a commission charge, he wouldnt have chosen 
to proceed with his transfer as hed have used another bank. 
I dont doubt what Mr R says about this. Im aware that he could have used another account 
to receive the funds, which would have charged him significantly less. It follows that Im 
persuaded hes suffered a loss here.
Overall, I think that in not being clear about the commission charges it would deduct from Mr 
Rs payment he was prevented from making an informed decision as to whether to use 
Halifax to receive his international payment. It follows that it would be unfair for Halifax to 
retain the commission payment it deducted here. 
In the circumstances, Im persuaded that a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint 
would be for Halifax to refund Mr R the commission payment it deducted and it should also 
pay interest at 8% from the date it deducted that charge to the date it returns those funds to 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) should do 
the following to resolve this complaint: Refund Mr R the commission it charged him on his August 2019 international payment; 
 Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the commission payment Mr R was charged from the 
date it was paid until the date this money id returned to him. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) to take off tax from this 
interest. Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) must give Mr R a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off it he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman