DRN-2292609
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited wont provide him with information 
hes asked for about how his whole of life policy is reviewed. He thinks hes entitled to this 
information so he can make an informed decision about the future benefits of the policy. 
What happened
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that Aviva 
had provided Mr M with all the information about his policy he was entitled to. And it was fair 
and reasonable of Aviva to withhold information it considered to be commercially sensitive.  
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator and so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. Mr M maintained that he needs the information hes requested from Aviva to 
make decisions about the management of his policy  and didnt agree this information was 
commercially sensitive. He also expressed more general concerns about whole of life 
policies and how they are reviewed and regulated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive 
reached my decision.  Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I should first explain that were an impartial informal resolution service. Its not our role to 
monitor of regulate the financial industry nor can we provide financial advice. So, if Mr M 
wants to pursue matters, he may wish to contact the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), or seek his own independent financial advice. 
Whilst Id expect a business to provide a customer with information about their specific 
policy, I wouldnt expect it to provide information it considered to be commercially sensitive. I 
completely understand Mr Ms desire to make an informed decision about the management 
of his policy. But that doesnt mean Aviva has to provide Mr M with the information hes 
requested if this isnt information hes entitled to. 
Avivas told us that the information Mr M has asked for about the reviews of his policy is 
commercially sensitive. And I have no reason to doubt that. Its also pointed out that reviews 
of a customers policy are based on an independent review and calculation in line with the 
specific terms of the policy. So, providing the generic information about the review of whole 
of life policies Mr M has asked for is unlikely to help him make an informed decision about 
his specific policy. But this is something a financial advisor might be able to provide more 
clarity on for Mr M. 
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling here. And completely understand his desire to make 
the right decisions about the management of his policy. But taking everything into account, I 
dont believe Aviva has acted unreasonably in not providing Mr M with all the information 
hes requested. So, I wont be asking it to take any action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman