DRN-2939966
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi Financial Services.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr S experienced problems with the car juddering 
and losing power in July 2020 only four months after the car was supplied to him. VWFS 
havent sought to dispute the assumption that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply. As the problem hasnt been resolved in a reasonable time I would agree that 
the most appropriate course of action would be to allow Mr S to reject the car.
In those circumstances we would usually expect the business to terminate the contract; 
refund any deposit with interest and refund any finance instalments that had been paid less 
an amount to compensate the business for the use the consumer had from the car. As Mr S 
had been able to cover about 3,500 miles in the car before it broke down at the end of July 
2020 I think he had reasonable use of it for the first four months and it would be fair for 
VWFS to retain the first four monthly instalments as our investigator has suggested.
But, thereafter, Mr S has not been able to use the car and any finance instalments paid by 
him should be returned with interest as hes been deprived of that money.
VWFS and Mr S have agreed that the finance agreement should be terminated; the deposit 
returned and that four monthly instalments should be withheld in respect of fair usage. 
But Mr S disputes the compensation our investigator has suggested. He says £250 isnt 
enough considering; he has had to take the car back to the dealership for repairs on many 
occasions; VWFS didnt respond to him in a reasonable timeframe; he had to make 
alternative child care arrangements when taking the car to the dealership for repairs and 
VWFS have continued to chase arrears on the account even after they agreed to allow 
rejection.
Mr S has also asked me to consider some consequential costs he says hes incurred as a 
result of the issues hes had with the car. He says he incurred motor bike fuel costs whilst he 
didnt have the car and that his parents incurred fuel costs when there was a need for them 
to collect his children. He also wants VWFS to refund the cost of the new car he had to fund 
when it became obvious the one he was financing could not be repaired and returned to him 
and he wants me to consider refunding the cost of a taxi he had to pay for to get home after 
taking his car to the dealership for repair. Mr S has also incurred legal costs when presenting 
this case to our service. Hed like VWFS to reimburse those.
Putting things right
Id agree that VWFS should terminate the agreement and refund any deposit and any 
finance instalments other than four for fair usage. They should add interest to this refund as 
Mr S has been deprived of the money. 
Ive considered the compensation the investigator has suggested for the trouble and upset 
caused and Im persuaded it is sufficient. Whilst there were delays with VWFS providing its 
final response on this matter its also important for me to consider that they were, in part at 
least, operating during a national pandemic when resources were limited. 
VWFS refused to refund instalments or the deposit before a final decision was made on this 
complaint. Whilst that seems a little harsh given that they had already accepted the rejection 
of the car, I dont think it would be fair to suggest it was without reason. It was Mr S that was 
still disputing the settlement and VWFS didnt have to part settle in those circumstances.
However, I think Mr S has been inconvenienced by the frequent visits he had to make to the 
dealership to have his car repaired. These visits will have disrupted any plans hed made 
including, I think its fair to say, his work and child care arrangements. Hed also need to 
arrange to get back home after the car had been dropped off at the dealership and I can see 
there were some taxi expenses. He also had to wait too long for a final response from the 
business and I think its fair for me to consider that as it was in response to a regulated 
activity. The business have also continued to chase Mr S for arrears on his finance 
agreement despite having agreed to reject the car. Whilst I understand that the settlement 
hadnt been agreed by Mr S I think VWFS could have been a little more sympathetic and 
frozen any collection activity on the account. They were, after all, prepared to accept the car 
hadnt been of satisfactory quality. Taking all those matters into account, however; I still think 
the £250 compensation suggested by our investigator is reasonable and thats what Im 
asking VWFS to pay.
Ive also considered the consequential costs Mr S would like reimbursed. I dont think it 
would be fair to reimburse petrol costs he, or his parents incurred between August and 
October 2020 before a new car was sourced. Thats because Im suggesting Mr S shouldnt pay for the car he was financing during those periods. 
It was Mr Ss decision to fund a new car in October 2020. That was understandable as by 
that point it was clear the car he had been financing through VWFS would not be repaired. 
But as Im telling VWFS to refund all but the first four finance instalments, Mr S would not, in 
effect, have been paying for his car at that point and those funds would be available to 
source an alternative vehicle. So, Im not asking VWFS to refund the purchase cost of the 
new car.
It was Mr Ss decision to engage a solicitor, but I dont think he had to. This service is both 
accessible and informal and most consumers will choose to represent themselves. Its not 
this services usual practice to refund legal costs and I dont think there are reasons to 
deviate from that approach here. I dont think it would therefore be fair to ask VWFS to 
refund any legal costs as these could have been mitigated by Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
refund all finance instalments that have been paid adding 8% simple interest per year 
to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. The business can 
retain the first four instalments in respect of the use Mr S has had from the car;
refund any deposit that has been paid adding 8% simple interest per year to any 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the trouble and upset that has been caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman