DRN-4136890
The complaint
Miss N complains NAYLORS FINANCE LIMITED (Naylors) gave her loans she couldnt 
afford to repay. She also says the information recorded about her income and expenditure, 
which was given to Naylors agent is incorrect. 
What happened
Miss N was advanced five loans by Naylors, and a summary of her borrowing follows in the 
table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £100.00 06/03/2018 18/07/2018 27 £6.00
2 £100.00 02/05/2018 05/09/2018 27 £6.00
3 £100.00 27/06/2018 02/08/2019* 27 £6.00
4 £100.00 18/07/2018 02/08/2019* 27 £6.00
5 £100.00 05/09/2018 02/08/2019* 27 £6.00
*Miss N has some problems repaying her final three loans, and Naylors said it took the 
decision to internally write off the balances  which included unpaid capital and interest - on 
the date in the table above. 
In response to Miss Ns complaint Naylors wrote to her explaining why it wasnt going to 
uphold the complaint. Naylors also explained that it had written off the outstanding balance 
due to be paid on loans 3  6.  Miss N didnt accept this outcome and disagreed, and instead 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
After the complaint was referred here, Miss N let us know that she was still being contacted 
by the agent she dealt with at Naylors. But Naylors had told her that he no longer worked for 
them  and hadnt done so for about a year. 
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint 
about loans 1 - 3. He also didnt uphold Miss Ns concerns about the contact she had 
received from the former member of staff. But he thought loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been 
granted because the pattern of lending was now harmful for Miss N. 
Naylors accepted the adjudicators assessment. But it said that no redress was due to be 
paid to Miss N because it had written off more than the refund. The refund would be used to 
offset the written off balance. But as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to continue to write off 
the balances  and so not purse Miss N further for what is owed. Naylors also agreed to 
remove the adverse credit file information about loans 4 and 5 from Miss Ns credit file. 
The adjudicator then put this offer to Miss N and she didnt accept it. Ive read her responses 
in full, and Ive summarised them below.
The agent supplied incorrect information to Naylors about her financial situation. 
While Miss N confirmed she was no longer being contacted by the former agent she 
says the experience was stressful and this had an impact on her mental health. 
Miss N provided information about why the former agent was dismissed by Naylors. 
Miss N doesnt agree that the refund should go towards paying down the balance 
that was written off. 
Miss N says that Naylors management ought to have realised there was a problem 
and not advanced loans 3  5. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Naylors had to assess the lending to check if Miss N could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Naylors checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ns 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Naylors should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss N. These factors include:
Miss N having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss N having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss N coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss N. 
Naylors was required to establish whether Miss N could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss N was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ns complaint.Loan 1
It does seem that for all the loans Miss N was granted, Naylors carried out the same sort of 
checks. For this loan, Miss N declared she wasnt working and was a council tenant. 
Her income was declared to be £142 per week, which was made up of Family Credit and 
Other benefits. Miss N declared her expenditure to be £68 per week  this covered council 
tax, utilities and housekeeping. As part of this application, Miss N declared that she didnt 
have any other creditors. Miss N appeared to have more than enough disposable income to 
afford her weekly repayment of £6. 
It doesnt appear a credit search was carried out before this loan was advanced. But there 
was no regulatory requirement for Naylors to carry out a credit search. So, the fact that one 
wasnt carried out isnt a reason for me to uphold this loan and / or conclude further checks 
needed to be carried out. Considering the income and expenditure information suggested 
Miss N would have had more than enough disposable income to be able to afford the 
repayments she was committed to making. 
As part of the application, Miss N needed to sign the income and expenditure form, and Ive 
seen that has been done  possibly on a mobile phone or a tablet. But as part of that, Miss N 
agreed that she wasnt in a debt management plan and confirmed the information she had 
provided was accurate and Im satisfied, at this point in the lending relationship it was 
reasonable for Naylors to have relied on this declaration. 
Naylors has also provided a copy of the credit agreement  which has also been signed by 
Miss N and provided details of her loan term, amount borrowed and total to repay. 
Given it was early in the lending relationship  I think it was reasonable for Naylors to have 
relied on the information Miss N provided about her income and expenditure which showed 
she could afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss N 
was having current financial difficulties or anything else to suggest the loan repayments 
would be unsustainable for her.
I do not uphold the complaint about this loan being approved.  
Loan 2 
Naylors hasnt been able to provide the income and expenditure details for this loan. It says 
that at the time, the details collected from Miss N wouldve been uploaded to its system  but 
for loan 2 this wasnt done, and the information is no longer available. 
The only information available for this loan is the statement of account as well as a signed 
copy of a credit agreement. Which as far as I can tell contains Miss Ns signature as well as 
that of the agent. 
But, given the information that Naylors collected at loan 1 and what I will discuss below 
about loan 3, it is likely that it did ask Miss N for details of her income and expenditure. I 
cant be sure exactly what details Naylors used to carry out its affordability assessment. But 
if the figures were similar to either what was declared for loan 1 and / or loan 3, Naylors 
wouldve reasonably believed, that the loan repayments were affordable for Miss N. 
As I said above, the same sort of checks were carried out by Naylors before this loan was 
approved. Loan 1, was still active at the time, which means Miss Ns weekly commitment to 
Naylors was doubling from £6 to £12 per week. But it is worth saying here, that based on the statement of account, Miss N had made all her payments for the first loan on time and was 
up to date with them when this second loan was advanced. 
So given, the likely checks that were carried out, this loan wouldve looked affordable, and 
for a second modest loan I would consider the checks to have been proportionate. 
Therefore, I am not upholding Miss Ns complaint about loan 2. 
Loan 3
Loans 1 and 2 were still outstanding when this loan was advanced. So, although the capital 
amount Miss N was borrowing hadnt increased compared to previous loans, as a result of 
the previous loans still being outstanding, her commitment to Naylors had now increased to 
£18 per week. 
As before, Miss Ns repayments were up to date for loans 1 and 2 and shed not missed any. 
This may have given Naylors confidence that she was managing her repayments well and 
could afford to take on additional borrowing.    
Miss N once again declared she wasnt working and was a council tenant. She declared 
weekly income of £334. According to Naylors application form Miss Ns income derived from 
three sources of benefits. 
Her outgoings remained the same at £68 per week for housekeeping, council tax and 
utilities. But of course, Naylors also was aware she already owed another £12 per week to it 
as a result of having loans 1 and 2 outstanding. So, in fact, her weekly outgoings were 
already at least £80 per week. 
Now, at this point in the lending relationship, Miss N had three loans outstanding (once it 
was approved) and paying Naylors £18 per week. Miss N had declared (and signed to 
confirm the accuracy of the statement) that she didnt have any other creditors which needed 
repaying. It also doesnt seem a credit search was carried out and as Ive said, there wasnt 
a requirement for Naylors to have carried one out. And so, Naylors wouldnt have been 
aware of any other creditors Miss N may have had.
I do have some concerns at this point about the relativity low level of weekly expenditure 
Miss N was declaring and the fact, her income had increased between loans 1 and 3. But 
given the relatively modest sums advanced, her loans to date had been repaid without any 
obvious problems and the length of the current lending relationship. I do think at this point it 
was just about reasonable for Naylors to have advanced this loan without carrying out any 
further checks, such as either doing a credit search and / or obtaining evidence of Miss Ns 
income and expenditure. 
I therefore dont uphold Miss Ns complaint about this loan. 
Loans 4 and 5
I wont be making a finding about these two loans because the adjudicator who reviewed the 
complaint upheld them and Naylors agreed to settle them. 
Naylors has agreed to refund the interest Miss N paid towards these loans (along with 8%) 
and then use the refund to offset the total outstanding balance which Naylors took the 
decision to write off in 2019. It agreed to continue to not collect the outstanding balance that 
remained due (after the refund had been applied) and finally it agreed to remove adverse 
information from Miss Ns credit file about these loans. What Naylors has now agreed to do, is in line with what I would direct Naylors to do if I had 
found in favour of Miss N for these loans. To be clear, Ive not needed to make a finding 
because Naylors has accepted, following the adjudicators assessments that these loans 
ought not to have been provided.  
I appreciate Miss N feels the refund should be paid directly to her. But I also have to 
consider that Naylors has written off the balances of these loans which included capital 
Miss N owed it. And I dont believe that would be a fair way to resolve the complaint 
considering this write off. Naylors has written off capital that Miss N borrowed and which, as 
a starting point the Financial Ombudsman would usually expect to be repaid. 
For example, in Miss Ns complaint, she borrowed £100 for loan 5, but at the point the debt 
was written off, she had repaid Naylors a total of £30. So, at a minimum she would still owe 
Naylors £70 for that loan. And I dont think it would be fair to ask Naylors to pay a refund to 
Miss N when there is clearly still unpaid capital even though it has since been written off. 
So, what Naylors has agreed to do in order to put things right for Miss N is in my view is fair 
and reasonable and I wouldnt ask it to do any more for loans 4 and 5. 
Contact from the former member of staff
I am sorry to hear what has happened with the contact from the former member of staff. I 
can understand why this wouldve been unsettling for Miss N. I have no reason to doubt 
what Miss N has told us about the impact on her mental health and this is completely 
understandable. 
I appreciate what Miss N has told us about the circumstances of the member of staff leaving 
Naylors. But Naylors has said something different  that there hadnt been any previous 
complaints raised against the staff member. And, it isnt really for me to comment on why a 
member of staff is no longer working for Naylors as well as what happened after their 
employment ended. This falls outside of the Financial Ombudsmans remit, and therefore I 
cant ask Naylors to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss N says shes 
been caused. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Naylors should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent loans 4 and 5 to Miss N, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss N may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Naylors liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Naylors shouldnt have given Miss N loans 4 and 5 and it should do what it has agreed to do 
in response to the adjudicators assessment. But for completeness Ive outlined what it 
needs to do below.  
A. Naylors should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss N as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss N 
having made overpayments then Naylors should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on any outstanding loans and any principal 
Naylors has already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be 
paid to Miss N. As agreed, Naylors shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up 
of principal it has already written-off. 
C. Naylors should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ns credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Naylors to deduct tax from this interest. Naylors should 
give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Miss Ns complaint about loans 1  
3. 
But NAYLORS FINANCE LIMITED should put things right as it has agreed to do as outlined 
above for Miss N in relation to loans 4 and 5. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman