DRN-2685157
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her for two payments she made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
On 10 October 2019 Miss Z says she received a call, which she thought was from Monzo. 
She said they told her she would benefit from putting money into a savings pot (a type of 
savings account at Monzo) and went through various options and interest rates. Miss Z says 
they convinced her to transfer £1,000.00 and told her she would receive confirmation by 
post. Miss Z set up a new payee and made an online faster payment from her account to a 
new payee in the name of M.
Miss Z says that when she couldnt see the money in her savings pot and her calls werent 
being answered, she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo through 
their online chat on 11 October 2019.
On 23 October 2019 Miss Z says she was contacted again by someone she thought was 
calling from Monzo. She says after being asked a series of questions and discussing savings 
options they told her if she transferred £1,000.00 to her savings pot that they could double 
her money and return it to her same day. Miss Z set up a new payee and made an online 
faster payment from her account to the new payee in the name of Mr A. Miss Z says that 
when she hadnt received the money the next day, she called on the number shed been 
given but there was no answer. So, she called Monzo to report the fraud.
Monzo looked into both of Miss Zs fraud claims but declined to refund her. They said they 
were unable to assume liability and that theyd contacted the beneficiary banks  but no 
funds were recovered.
Miss Z was unhappy with Monzos response, so she brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into Miss Zs complaint and didnt uphold it. They highlighted the 
following points:
Miss Z had a savings pot with Monzo, so should know how the account works.
Miss Z said she had been struggling financially, so it was difficult to understand why 
she would invest £1,000.00. 
Why Miss Z would set up two new payees and make payments to two separate 
individuals/accounts.
There were four cash deposits into Miss Zs account minutes before she received the 
first call, prior to which she didnt have enough funds to make the payment  which 
was unusual timing. For the second payment Miss Z was called on the same day that 
her wages were credited to her account, prior to which she didnt have enough funds 
to make the payment  again unusual timing.
Miss Z hasnt explained where the four cash deposits came from, who made them or 
what the funds were for.
Why Miss Z would fall for the exact same scam a second time when she was aware 
shed already been scammed. 
Miss Z disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying she was vulnerable and taken 
advantage of. She also raised a concern that Monzo had told her that she would be 
refunded, and she hadnt been.
The investigator responded to Miss Zs points saying theyd reviewed all the online chat 
messages and couldnt see that Monzo had told Miss Z they would refund her money.
As Miss Z disagreed, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for the same reasons. 
As the investigator very clearly set out, there are a number of concerns with what Miss Z told 
us about the scam.
Miss Z already had a savings pot with Monzo and used this regularly. So, I think its fair to 
suggest that Miss Z shouldve realised that what she was being asked to do was unusual or 
different to how shed used this type of account before. Especially when she was asked to 
set up two new payees, both of which were set up to names that werent her own. There is 
no explanation as to why putting funds into her savings pot, or even a new savings pot in her 
name would require her to pay funds to accounts held in someone elses name.
It also seems highly unusual that Miss Z had four deposits made into her account (which 
gave her just enough money to make the first £1,000.00 faster payment) just minutes before 
the scammer called and suggested Miss Z move money into a savings pot. Miss Z was 
asked where these funds came from, but we havent been provided with any details. But 
even if Miss Z explained where these funds had come from, its very coincidental that the call 
came just minutes after the funds were credited. This stands out even more when the 
second call happened on the day that her wages were paid into her account. Again, prior to 
her wages being credited Miss Z didnt have enough money to make the second £1,000.00 
faster payment. Its not clear how a fraudster would know that Miss Z just had sufficient 
funds credited to her account to make either payment, and the timing seems too 
coincidental.
And it raises questions why Miss Z would fall for the exact same scam, less than two weeks 
later and follow exactly the same instructions without questioning whether or not she was 
actually talking to Monzo.
Having considered everything that Miss Z has told about what happened, Im not persuaded 
that I can fairly ask Monzo to refund her for either payment in these circumstances. 
Miss Z raised a point about Monzo saying they would refund her, but having reviewed all the 
evidence  I havent seen anything that supports this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman