DRN-1877806
The complaint
Mrs W upgraded an existing packaged bank account to a Premier account (PA) with Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 2007 and she says it was mis-sold.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
essential facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
I think its more likely than not that Mrs W knew she didnt have to take out a PA to get her 
overdraft raised by £250 to £500, because shed had an overdraft of £500 and over on her 
previous account. 
In my view Mrs W was experienced in financial matters, as shed held and used two types of 
packaged bank account, and taken out loans and insurance policies before her interest in 
the PA. So, I think if shed been told she had to take out this account to raise her overdraft 
level, I think she would have challenged this and looked for and found alternative options 
with Lloyds or elsewhere.
So, I think Mrs W knew she had a choice and chose to take out the PA.
In my view I cant say the PA was unsuitable for Mrs W because: she used the mobile phone 
insurance and the car breakdown cover extensively; she has told us she was interested in 
the overdraft at the time, and the PA provided a £500 overdraft with no fees or charges; and 
Lloyds record shows she was interested in the identity theft insurance which was exclusive 
to the PA.
I think its more likely that not she received enough information about the PA because she 
used the benefits as described above.
There were many other benefits which she was eligible for, and she could have closed the 
PA and downgraded to a fee free one at any time, but she didnt and kept it for many years.
So, I think the PA was suitable for Mrs W and there wasnt anything that she wasnt told 
about it that would have put her off buying it.
For these reasons I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman