DRN-3040009
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card, in 2001. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him PPI with the 
card.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover) arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators looked into the case and said they didnt think we should uphold the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made an offer to Mr M as if 
it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost in relation to the 
commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. However, 
Ive also considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission mentioned above. 
Ive seen that Halifax has made an offer in respect this, and I too think the offer to refund 
some of the cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. 
We know quite about these types of Halifax sales having seen quite a few of them. We 
know, for example, that the credit agreement was usually printed off at the branch for the 
consumer to check and sign. Whether PPI was selected depended on the discussion 
consumers like Mr M had with the Halifax adviser.
In this case, I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI if 
he didnt want to - he chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen the original credit 
agreement which he signed. I note the yes option to have PPI with the new card was 
selected. If Mr M hadnt agreed to the PPI, or had somehow mis-interpreted the form, I think 
hed have been prompted to ask why such a policy had been set up and hed have wanted to 
raise questions when he started to get billed for PPI on his statements. Ive seen no 
evidence he did this.
I think Halifax properly obtained his consent.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M as part of an advised sale, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for him. In my view, the evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, he 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt caught by any of the major exclusions. 
Ive considered everything thats been said about Mr M not needing PPI because of other 
protections he enjoyed through his job. However, in my view, there was nothing about Mr 
Ms employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim and even 
though he had some sickness protection with his job, the PPI would have paid out 10% of 
his existing credit card balance for a up to year. This would have been in addition to any 
other means he had at the time. Ive seen no supporting evidence that he had death in 
service protection, but this doesnt make the make the PPI of no use anyway as it covered a 
quite different eventuality. Nor do I think having redundancy protection conflicts with having 
PPI. I also think the cost of the cover was affordable for him. 
When asked about any pre-existing medical conditions, the company representing Mr M said 
hed suffered from an injury in or around 1985, some 16 years before the sale. Ive 
considered this with care and whilst Im sure it would have been a concern at the time, I 
dont have any evidence before me suggesting it to be relevant to the sale in 2001 or that it 
would have affected his ability to successfully claim on the policy. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable for him.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave to Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
could have been, but as Ive said, there would have probably been a discussion with the 
adviser and he specifically chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
Nor was it too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information 
he was likely given at the point of sale. And while the policy contained certain limitations on 
claims relating to back and / or mental health conditions, in light of Mr Ms own 
circumstances, these limitations or exclusions didnt make the cover wrong or unsuitable for 
him. I therefore dont think Mr M would have declined the policy even if Halifax might have 
done a better job at explaining things for him.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
However, Mr Ms representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Ms representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on his complaint. In summary they said Mr M should get back all the money he paid for the 
policy because Halifax failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. Because they 
say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission. His representative 
says he should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mr Ms PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ms case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded that the non-disclosure of 
commission could lead to an unfair relationshipprofit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr M about the commission levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr M unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mr M back 
any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr M some of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate Mr M as if it had treated him unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ms complaint or make any award in his favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but as it has already offered to pay back some of the cost it should therefore now 
make arrangements to pay Mr M, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman