DRN-3741511
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how she has been treated by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) 
in relation to her Buy-to-Let mortgage. She considers that she has lost out financially due to 
the property valuation being inexplicably low and TMW not disclosing this earlier. 
What happened
Mrs W originally took out a Buy-to-Let mortgage with TMW in 2015. TMW wrote to Mrs W on 
17 March 2021 to let her know that her current interest rate product was coming to an end 
and inviting her to explore her options. It sent a reminder letter on 14 April 2021.
On 17 April 2021, Mrs W logged into her account and noticed that the property valuation had 
significantly decreased such that her loan to value (LTV) had gone above 65%, meaning that 
she couldnt, as things stood, apply for the rate she wanted to. 
She rang TMW on 19 April 2021 to discuss the situation and her options. TMWs 
representative explained that he could request for the automated valuation to be re-run, 
which might result in a higher valuation. He also told Mrs W that she had the option to pay 
for a different/additional valuation, which again could change things. The representative 
undertook to get the automated valuation re-done and the call then dropped out. 
Mrs W subsequently logged into her account and saw that the valuation had increased 
slightly, but not to the point that the LTV came down to 65%.
Mrs W then rang TMW on 30 April 2021 to ask how much she would need to pay off of the 
balance, to get the LTV down to 65% and she was told a figure, which she paid. She then 
did the switch on-line. However, it later transpired that Mrs W in fact needed to pay an 
additional £250 to get within the 65% LTV and she paid this on 4 May 2021. Mrs W thought 
the new rate was going to apply straight away in May, but in fact she was on TMWs variable 
follow on rate for all of May 2021, before her new rate began on 1 June 2021.
Mrs W complained to TMW. In summary, she said that she didnt think shed been treated 
fairly. The sudden drop in the valuation of her property had prevented her from accessing 
the 65% LTV deals and she thought that TMW ought to have done more to communicate 
this to her before her existing deal was due to end. She said this had prevented her from 
switching earlier and caused her to have to pay more by being on the follow on rate for a 
month. She said she wanted TMW to refund her the difference between the two rates for the 
month of May 2021. 
TMW upheld Mrs Ws complaint, but only on the basis that it had provided her with an 
incorrect amount to pay when she rang on 30 April 2021. It said this led Mrs W to need to 
make contact and pay an additional amount on 4 May. It said it credited Mrs Ws account 
with £250 to apologise for what had happened. 
TMW didnt uphold Mrs Ws other concerns. It explained the basis for its valuation and said 
that it had given her plenty of notice that her existing deal was coming to an end. It said it 
had made it clear that any switch needed to be done at least five days before the end of April 
2021 to go through in time for May 2021. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and referred her concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator here reached an initial view. In summary, they said that whilst they 
empathised with the situation Mrs W found herself in regarding the valuation figure, they 
couldnt say this meant that TMW had done anything wrong. They also didnt think that TMW 
needed to include valuation details within its correspondence about an existing product term 
coming to an end. They did though think that TMW could have done more to help Mrs W 
when she made contact at the end of April 2021 and she recommended that TMW give 
Mrs W the refund of interest that she was seeking. 
Mrs W said she thought the proposed outcome and remedy was fair. However, TMW 
disagreed with the outcome. It said that when Mrs W rang on 30 April 2021 to make a 
payment and bring the LTV down to 65%, she was already too late to make the switch in 
time to take affect from 1 May 2021. 
The investigator issued another opinion on the case. In summary, they were persuaded by 
TMWs argument in relation to the timing of the switch and they no longer thought that TMW 
needed to refund the difference. They thought the £250 compensation that had already been 
offered and paid was fair to reflect what had gone wrong. 
Mrs W disagreed with the outcome. She said it contained some important inaccuracies and 
didnt address the complaint specifically addressed to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
This didnt change the investigators mind and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator for 
fundamentally the same reasons. I realise that Mrs W feels strongly about this issue and that 
this will come as a disappointment to her. But I hope that my explanation helps her to 
understand why Ive come to the conclusion that I have.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
I appreciate and understand that Mrs W would rather have avoided going onto the managed 
rate for a month and is disappointed at how things turned out. However, in order to say that 
TMW needs to pay the difference in interest between the amount she paid on the follow on 
rate as compared to the rate that began in June 2021, I would need to be satisfied that TMW 
did something wrong which caused this to happen. And thats not the case.
There are two fundamental issues that Mrs W is unhappy with:
- The valuation dropping so significantly compared to previous figures, when her own 
research suggests property values in the area have in fact been increasing.- TMW shouldve alerted her to the valuation issue in the correspondence where it let 
her know that the rate she was on was coming to an end.
The valuation figures
I can understand why Mrs W was surprised and disappointed at the automatically generated 
valuation figures that TMW relied upon, given the previous property valuations and what 
Mrs Ws own research suggested. However, whilst the figures were perhaps on the face of it 
surprising, I cant say that TMW did anything wrong by relying on them. There is nothing 
inherently unfair about a lender relying on such valuations in the first instance. 
TMW did make Mrs W aware that she could request a more bespoke/manual valuation 
(which may have resulted in a higher valuation), but this would come at a cost. I understand 
this isnt a cost Mrs W would necessarily have wanted (or felt should have to) incur, given 
her concerns about the automatically generated valuation figures. However, this was an 
option open to her. 
I would also note that even if Mrs W had gone ahead with a separate valuation, this may not 
have been carried out in time to avoid going onto the follow on rate  given that the five day 
cut off point wasnt very far away. 
Transparency and disclosure of the valuation figures
I understand Mrs W feels strongly that TMW shouldve been more transparent about the 
valuation figures and disclosed them to her earlier. But I disagree.
Whilst TMW could have chosen to include such information in its communication letting 
Mrs W know that her current deal was coming to an end, there was no requirement for it to 
do so. I dont consider that it not including this information in the relevant letter resulted in 
any unfairness here. The letter pointed Mrs W to go on-line where she could see her options 
and where the valuation information was contained. I appreciate Mrs W has said she thinks 
the valuation figure on-line wasnt sufficiently prominent. However, the fact remains she saw 
it. So even if the valuation information could or should have been more prominent (which I 
make no finding on because it isnt necessary), it cant reasonably be said to have impacted 
Mrs W. 
Timescales
It is also relevant that TMW first sent Mrs W notification on 17 March 2021 that her current 
deal was coming to an end and that she could log-in to her account to evaluate her options. 
The letter made it clear that in order to be on a new rate with TMW for May, any switch 
would need to be completed by 26 April at the latest. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs W didnt log on until 17 April 2021, a month after the original letter 
and after a reminder had been sent. I appreciate that Mrs W didnt anticipate that there 
would be any issues regarding the valuation. Nevertheless, had she made enquiries sooner 
than she did, this may have resulted in her avoiding going onto the follow on rate. 
In conclusion, whilst I understand Mrs Ws frustration at how things panned out, I find there 
are no grounds upon which I can reasonably say that TMS is responsible for her ending up 
on the follow on rate for the month of May, before her new deal began. 
Compensation
 TMW has admitted it made an error when it gave Mrs W incorrect information on 
30 April 2021 about the amount she needed to pay to get down to the 65% LTV. Whilst it 
didnt give her any incorrect information about when the new deal would begin from, it 
wouldve made sense for it to clarify this during the call. However, neither of these things 
have led to Mrs W paying more towards her mortgage in May 2021. 
I consider that the £250 TMW has already paid in compensation is fair, given where things 
did go wrong and the inconvenience and frustration this will undoubtedly have caused. So I 
dont require TMW to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about The Mortgage Works (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman