DRN-4295816
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Unum Limited declined a claim made on a group income protection 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his employer, 
which can pay out a percentage of his salary after hed been off work for a period of time - 
known as the deferred period.
Mr P was absent from work from May 2021. The GP medical certificate states that Mr P was 
unable to work due to respiratory system diseases. Later GP certificates reflect the reason 
as shortness of breath.
A claim was made on the policy during the deferred period. Ultimately the claim was 
declined in August 2022 on the basis that Mr P didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity 
throughout the duration of the deferred period.
Unums decision was appealed, but Unum maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr P brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P didnt 
agree. So, his complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say that Mr P needs to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity for a benefit to be paid. 
Mr P has the benefit of insured occupation cover. 
And, under the policy: a member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of the insured occupation because of illness or injury.
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to the incapacity. 
Its for Mr P to establish that he has a valid claim under the policy, taking into account the 
above policy definitions. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. I know hell be very 
disappointed but overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Unum to decline the claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr P didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. Its not disputed that Mr P had been signed off work by 
his GP during the deferred period. And occupational health reports support that Mr P 
wasnt fit to work. But that doesnt automatically mean the policy definition of 
incapacity is met. Thats because theres a specific policy term which Mr P needs to 
fulfil for a claim to be successful. 
Im satisfied Mr Ps symptoms are largely self-reported in his medical records. These 
include sore throat, painful chest, mental fog, rapid shallow breathing, and headache.  
Mr P was concerned that his symptoms were the result of a reaction to being 
exposed to a chemical at work.  There is reference in the medical records to Mr P 
being advised to avoid the potential allergen as a result.
However, on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied Unum has fairly concluded that 
a link between Mr Ps reported symptoms and the exposure to the chemical allergen 
hasnt been established. 
Mr P underwent a number of medical tests during (and shortly after) the deferred 
period. The results of a cardiac MRI were normal and a letter from a doctor in the 
department of respiratory medicine dated June 2021 reflects his saturations levels 
were at 98% on room air and his chest was clear on inspection. Further, blood tests 
taken a couple of months before were normal  as was a chest x-ray. 
Further, a consultants respiratory physicians letter dated December 2021 reflects 
that recent lung function tests were normal. And a letter from another consultant in 
respiratory medicines from December 2021 says: Investigations so far have been 
pretty unremarkable. His IgE and RAST tests have all been normal. Radiology is 
normal and his lung function tests are completely within normal limits at the moment I 
have reassured him that so far, I found no evidence of any structural lung disease. I 
am not really in a position to establish whether he has any respiratory sensitization to 
the chemicals at work. 
Unum has said that although Mr P reports several symptoms which he indicates 
affects his ability to perform the insured occupation, there appears to be a lack of 
objective medical evidence in support. And Im satisfied that was a fair conclusion for 
it to reach based on the totality of the medical evidence  summarised above. 
Mr P has more recently said that he may have chronic fatigue syndrome or long 
Covid. Ive focused on the medical evidence available to Unum when it took the 
decision to decline the claim in August 2022 and its final response letter dated 
January 2023, setting out its reasons maintaining the decision. 
In its final response letter dated January 2023, maintaining its decision to decline the 
claim, Unum acknowledged that Mr P was ongoing further investigations. Unum said 
that it would be willing to consider any new evidence which becomes available to 
review the claim. I think thats fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman