DRN-4395262
The complaint
Mr G and Ms S complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr G and Ms S have a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA which covers their home 
and its contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim in November 2022 after they noticed water damage in and around their 
kitchen, which is single-storey and covered by a flat roof. They said the damage had been 
caused during a named storm which hit their area in early November 2022.
RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage within a week or two of the claim being made.
Despite Mr G and Ms S chasing RSA to find out the outcome of their claim, it wasnt until 
around three months after the surveyors visit that RSA told Mr G and Ms S that they were 
declining the claim.
RSA said there were no storm conditions at the relevant times, so the damage wasnt 
covered as it hadnt been caused by an insured event. They also suggested that the damage 
had in fact been caused by wear and tear and gradual deterioration in the flat roof above the 
kitchen.
Mr G and Ms S werent happy with this and made a complaint to RSA.
RSA admitted that the service provided to Mr G and Ms S had been poor and they offered 
£100 in compensation for their trouble and upset. But they maintained that the decision to 
decline the claim had been correct.
Mr G and Ms S then brought their complaint to us. They want RSA to cover the cost of 
repairs to the flat roof. Those repairs have been completed now at a cost of over £6,000. 
They also wanted more compensation for their trouble and upset.
Our investigator looked into it and thought RSA had acted unfairly in dismissing the claim. 
They said there likely were storm conditions during the relevant period, which may have 
caused the damage to the flat roof.
So, they asked RSA to re-consider the claim on the assumption that there had in fact been a 
storm. But they thought the compensation offered to Mr G and Ms S had been fair and 
reasonable given the extent of the delays and poor service.
RSA disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached, I issued a provisional 
decision. This allowed both RSA and Mr G and Ms S to provide further information or 
evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I issued this, my final decision in this 
case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The compensation
I understand that Mr G and Ms S had to chase RSA for progress on their claim. And 
that they would have been understandably stressed during the period the claim 
decision was pending. And I do think RSA took too long to decline the claim.
It was a complex claim and there was competing evidence and reports to consider, 
so I cant say that RSA should have made their decision instantly their surveyor had 
provided their report. But it shouldnt have taken three months  and Mr G and Ms S 
shouldnt have had to chase for updates on progress.
Given the extent of the unnecessary and avoidable delays (two months at most) and 
the poor communication and service, I agree with our investigator that £100 is fair 
and reasonable compensation for Mr G and Ms Ss trouble and upset.
Its not entirely clear to me whether this compensation has in fact been paid to Mr G 
and Ms S or whether it was offered but rejected. No doubt Mr G and Ms S or RSA 
can enlighten me on that point in response to this provisional decision.
If the compensation hadnt yet been paid by the time we became involved, I will have 
to partly uphold the complaint and require RSA to pay it now.
The cause of the damage
Our investigator has explained our approach to the storm peril (or insured event) that 
almost all home insurance policies will cover. We look at whether there were weather 
conditions which might cause damage to an otherwise sound and well-maintained 
building. If there were, were likely to call that a storm and say that there was an 
insured peril.
This is more of an art than a science. We will look at wind speed and rainfall in the 
relevant period. But given that there isnt a weather station on every corner, we will 
take into account any other evidence which might suggest more localised weather 
conditions.
We may also look at any evidence to suggest that a building was well-maintained 
and not suffering wear and tear. Any such evidence would support the idea that it 
must have been the weather alone that caused the damage.
If there were storm conditions, we then ask ourselves whether those conditions most 
likely caused the relevant damage or simply served to highlight pre-existing issues. 
As our investigator explained, there is some overlap between these two questions.
Evidence of wear and tear will certainly inform the second question  was it the storm that was the principal cause of the damage? But it may also inform us when we 
consider whether there was a storm.
If a building is well-maintained and perfectly sound and weather conditions were very 
poor, were more likely to say here must have been storm conditions  because 
otherwise, how did the damage occur?
In this case, the evidence suggests that its a very borderline decision as to whether 
there was or was not a storm in the period preceding the claim being made.
In the weeks before the claim, one local weather station (around 6-8km from the 
property) records no wind speeds that would usually be considered a storm. Another 
station (around 12-14 km in the other direction) records winds speeds up to 47mph  
which we would usually consider to be a storm.
Our investigator said there were two additional factors which caused them to 
conclude that the weather may reasonably be considered to have been severe 
enough to cause damage to an otherwise sound and well-maintained building.
One, there were Met Office warnings for the area, at the relevant time, relating to the 
arrival of a named storm.
Two, Mr G and Ms S had recently moved into their home and had a survey carried 
out in August 2022, prior to buying the property. That survey said the flat roof and the 
areas around it appeared to be in good condition.
And if that were indeed the case, then logically, it must have been the weather 
conditions in November that caused the damage. And so, there must have been a 
storm  weather conditions capable of causing damage to an otherwise sound and 
well-maintained building.
I agree that the Met Office warning carries some evidential weight. But taken alone, 
its not completely persuasive. Weather warnings tell us what we might expect  
understandably and for very good reasons - in the worst case scenario. They dont 
tell us what the weather actually was.
I also take a slightly different view on the survey report. Particularly when I consider 
its findings alongside the assessment report provided by RSAs loss adjuster.
The part of the house in question is one-storey high and extends out of the back of 
the house into the back garden. Its not clear whether its a later extension or part of 
the original building, but thats of no real consequence.
It appears from the photographs Ive seen that the flat roof is now essentially in two 
sections. Again, Mr G and Ms S will no doubt correct me if Ive got the wrong 
impression. The part nearest the house is covered by a skylight set into the 
surrounding walls and edged by lead flashings. The furthest section is a flat roof 
covered with lead  again with flashings at the edge.
The survey carried out on Mr G and Ms Ss behalf in August does indeed say the roof 
appears to be in good condition. However, the photographs of the flat roof are taken 
from a window in the main part of the house about five metres or more above the flat 
roof itself.
Theres no suggestion the surveyor got any closer than that when assessing the roofs condition.
Those photographs also show what appears to be a large (bathtub-sized) planter 
sitting in the middle of the lead roof section. The planter has significant vegetation 
growing out of it, so I assume its full of soil or compost  and plants put there on 
purpose by the previous owner or tenant.
By the time RSAs surveyor inspects the property in November, the planter has gone 
 presumably taken by the previous owner or tenant. Where it sat, the lead roof is 
sagging in places and/or is clearly no longer draining properly towards the gutter at 
the far end on the building. The photographs taken at the time clearly show this.
RSAs surveyor notes that there is standing water pooling on the roof, damage to the 
lead and possibly also to the downpipe.
As is clear from their photographs, the previous surveyor had assessed the property 
during dry, bright weather in August. Its unsurprising perhaps that he didnt pick up 
any problems with pooling on the flat roof  or indeed any damage to the roof 
underneath the planter.
In their explanations to Mr G and Ms S about the decision to decline the claim, RSA 
pointed out that in their view there was no storm. They also  I assume they thought 
helpfully  pointed out the likely damage to the lead roof that was likely causing water 
to ingress into the property.
We asked Mr G and Ms S to provide an estimate or invoice from the roofer who 
carried out the repairs (at a cost of over £6,000) after the claim was declined.
They werent able to provide a copy of either an invoice or an estimate. But the roofer 
did provide an email summarising the work that had been carried out. This says that 
the lead was removed and reinstalled, the boards underneath the lead were replaced 
entirely, the flashings were repaired and the surrounding brickwork repointed.
Although the roofers summary doesnt specifically say why those repairs were 
needed  or, in other words, what the damage to those areas looked like before the 
repairs were carried out  its reasonably clear that the lead roof needed significant 
work to return it to a decent state of repair.
Given the nature of those repairs, it seems very likely to me that they were necessary 
to restore the shape and angle of the flat lead roof  to avoid standing water and 
pooling  after damage caused (at least in part) by the heavy planter which had been 
sitting on the roof before Mr G and Ms S bought the property.
You wouldnt necessarily expect at least some (if not most) of those repairs to be 
carried out where a storm had caused brief and temporary damage to the roof 
causing water ingress over a short period of time.
In summary then, the weather records show adverse weather likely to be just short of 
what wed consider a storm. The Met Office warning is inconclusive, being exactly 
that  a warning of what might happen. And there is a logical and reasonable 
explanation  backed by the available evidence - of what might have caused the 
damage if there wasnt a storm.
Taking all of that into account  and unless I receive additional information or 
evidence in response to this provisional decision which persuades me to change my mind - Im minded to say that I cant justifiably conclude that RSA acted in any way 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr G and Ms Ss claim, given the available 
evidence.
So, in summary, I said that I was minded to part-uphold the complaint if the compensation 
RSA had offered hadnt yet been paid by the time the complaint was brought to us. But I was 
not minded to ask RSA to reconsider the claim.
The responses to my provisional decision
RSA responded to my provisional decision to say that the £100 compensation had been paid 
to Mr G and Ms S before they brought their complaint to us. And they provided proof of that 
payment.
Mr G and Ms S provided further information and evidence. They sent copies of press articles 
covering the weather conditions at the relevant times. These report heavy rainfall and 
flooding in the area where Mr G and Ms S live. And they mention Met Office warnings for 
that area. 
They also sent further comments made by their roofer, who said:
To whom it may concern, I received a call to attend [the address] to repair roof 
works which had been damaged due to a related storm (Claudio) which had recently 
passed.
Mr G and Ms S also said that pooling of water on a flat roof after heavy rain isnt unusual.
They said the damage to the downpipe and lead noted by RSAs surveyor was consistent 
with storm damage. 
They said their surveyor had access to  and had been out on  the flat roof and hed raised 
no concerns about the planter. 
And they said the roof has been constructed in 2015, of lead  and lead should last 20-30 
years unless some unusual event caused it damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address the further information provided - and comments made - by Mr G and Ms S first.
The media articles provided by Mr G and Ms S confirm what we already knew about the 
weather at the relevant time.
Its not disputed that there was very heavy rainfall. The reports mention this and say there 
was flash-flooding in areas close to Mr G and Ms Ss home. They also mention Met Office 
warnings of persistent heavy rain in the region. 
Theres little or no mention in the articles though of strong winds in that particular 
geographical area. Any mention of high winds relates to regions which are reasonably 
distant from Mr G and Ms Ss home. And the Met Office warnings for Mr G and Ms Ss area 
are about rainfall not winds.
As I say, the reports add little to our understanding of the weather conditions at the time. Theres no dispute there was very heavy rainfall in the area. The wind speeds recorded at 
the two local weather stations show the very highest wind speeds during the relevant period 
as being at around the cusp of what might be considered a storm (47mph).
Very heavy rainfall alone  in the absence of high winds  can conceivably cause damage to 
a previously well-maintained building, though its not that likely  and it will be damage of 
particular types. Its not likely to cause the kind of damage reported to Mr and Ms Ss roof.
The damage RSAs surveyor noted to the downpipe wouldnt usually occur as a result of a 
one-off deluge. As for the damage to the lead, its extremely unlikely that heavy rain would 
cause the lead to have dents and dips.
And its in those dips  which are where the planter was standing - that RSAs surveyors 
photographs show the pooling water. This is not water standing on a consistent and entirely 
flat roof immediately after rainfall. 
Its essentially puddles of water sitting in dips and undulations. And those dips and 
undulations match the siting of the planter. As I say, theres a clear explanation of why they 
are there - and Im satisfied they were almost undoubtedly not caused by high winds and/or 
heavy rainfall.
Mr G and Ms Ss surveyor may have gone onto the flat roof when he carried out his 
photographic survey, though if he did, he took no photographs of the roof closer than the one 
from the nearest window. If he did go onto the roof and did not mention the planter, move it 
or examine underneath it, thats not something for which RSA are responsible. 
I take Mr G and Ms Ss point about the likely useful lifetime of a lead roof. This particular 
lead roof though has not served its purpose for that length of time  hence the ingress of 
water into the kitchen. 
And when I ask myself what unusual event might have caused that failure, I think its more 
likely to have been the positioning on the roof of a heavy object  which clearly left the roof 
with a footprint - rather than a one-off bout of heavy rainfall with winds at a maximum of 
47mph.
RSAs surveyor found no evidence of any damage which might have been caused to the roof 
by strong winds and which might have allowed water a route into the property. No lifted, 
detached or misplaced flashings. No signs of the roof itself having lifted, blown off or bent so 
as to allow water inside.
The roofer hasnt added much to the debate with his latest very brief comments. Theres no 
explanation there of what exactly the damage he repaired looked like or why the repairs 
were necessary. Again, he doesnt mention lifted or displaced lead roofing or flashings. He 
simply says he attended after a storm and carried out come repairs (which his earlier email 
had listed).
So, in summary, I still have no persuasive evidence that there was damage caused to the 
roof by the weather conditions in the relevant timeframe. And it remains much more likely 
that the issues with the roof were caused by factors other than the one-off weather event. 
In other words, the heavy rain accompanying Storm Claudio likely highlighted existing issues 
with the roof. On balance, its unlikely that the heavy rainfall and winds at 47mph maximum 
caused damage to the roof which then allowed the water to enter the property.
Ive not changed my mind about RSAs decision to decline the claim, which still appears to be me to be fair and reasonable in light of the evidence available. And since RSA have now 
demonstrated that they paid the compensation they offered to Mr G and Ms S before their 
complaint was brought to us, I wont be upholding this complaint, either in full or in part.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr G and Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman