DRN-4260205
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) rejected two credits to his account
What happened 
Mr Fs salary was normally paid into his account on 23rd of each month. It was £1,748. In 
March 2023, it hadnt arrived by the time Mr F contacted Revolut on 24 March 2023. He also 
noticed that another credit for £1,600 from an insurance company hadnt arrived into his 
account. He contacted Revolut by chat and booked a call back. By 29 March 2023, both 
payments hadnt arrived into his Revolut account and he arranged to have them sent to his 
other bank account by CHAPS payments.
Mr F complained. He didnt accept that there wasnt a problem at Revolut. He said it couldnt 
be coincidence that two payments hadnt arrived into his account  in the same period. And 
both sending businesses (his employer and the insurance company) said the payments had 
been rejected by Revolut. Mr F said he was short of money to buy food and pay his rent, had 
lost sleep, and became very anxious  and had self-harmed as a result.
Revolut said that they couldnt be held responsible for the payments not arriving  it was up 
to the sending firms and their banks to make the inbound payments  they couldnt explain 
why the credits hadnt arrived. Normally, GBP payments (by BACS) take three working days. 
So  Mr F should find out from the sending banks what had happened.
But Revolut accepted theyd taken a long time to respond to Mr Fs chats and their service 
hadnt been as good as it might have been. So  they paid compensation of £20, £75 and 
refunded a fee of £12.99  a total of £107.99.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said he hadnt had any evidence that the 
payment from the insurance company was rejected by Revolut. And he could see that the 
payroll evidence from Mr Fs employers showed that the sorting code was missing a digit. So 
- he said that was likely why that payment was rejected. He could also see that Mr Fs 
account received other payments at the same time as the payments in question  which 
suggested there wasnt an issue within Revoluts systems. So  he couldnt conclude there 
was a problem at Revolut.
Our investigator considered the service Mr F experienced on the chats with Revolut and the 
fact that a call was booked which wasnt fulfilled by Revolut. For that, he said the total 
compensation paid of £107.99 was appropriate  and didnt recommend any more.
Mr F didnt agree. He provided evidence from his employers which showed there wasnt a 
digit missing (it was how the spreadsheet was formatted). He said there must have been a 
problem at Revolut  and showed us an extract from the chats which seemed to indicate 
there had been a problem with Revoluts banking partners at the time. This was timed at 
0944 on 28 April 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that two payments, at similar times, were both rejected by 
Revolut and so werent credited to his account. He says that both the sending parties (his 
employers and the insurance company) have said the payments were rejected by Revolut.
And, as Revolut have said  it is up to the sending firm or entity to ensure the payments are 
properly sent to the right account details, and in that case, BACS payments normally take 
three business days  which wouldve been by 28 March 2023. But as Mr F has said - by 29 
March 2023, nothing had arrived and he organised to have the money sent to another 
account.
So  we have conflicting evidence here.
I first checked whether the payments had been returned by Revolut. We saw Revoluts 
records.  I checked this and it shows that Revolut didnt reject or return any inward payments 
for Mr Fs account.
Revolut use a third-party firm to process the payments which are then sent to Revoluts 
accounts. In other words, the payments first went to the third-party processor, and then to 
Revolut. 
So, it appears there may have been a delay within Revoluts payments processor. And here, 
its not easy or clear to find out with any certainty if, or why that was. Its reasonable to say 
Revolut (and indeed all banks) dont guarantee that a payment will be credited to an account 
within a specific timeline  just that normally, the payment cycle is three working days.
So, I didnt find any evidence that there was any delay or error within or caused by Revolut. 
I considered if the compensation paid by Revolut was appropriate for what happened. Our 
service has set down some criteria for deciding awards. We say an award up to £300 might 
be suitable where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, 
requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. Typically, the businesss actions could have resulted 
in some acute stress lasting hours at the lower end  or a have had a milder impact across a 
few days. Revolut paid compensation of £107.99 for the service they provided on webchat, 
and for the fact they didnt fulfil the call back   and I think this meets the criteria Ive quoted.
And, as Ive not found any errors by Revolut in the processing of the payments, I dont 
consider it is fair and reasonable to make a further award.
I accept that Mr F was frustrated and will therefore be disappointed by my decision. But I 
dont uphold this complaint, and Revolut dont have to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman