DRN-3273744
The complaint
Mrs P complains that some advice provided to her late husband by Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited was inappropriate. She complains that as a result of that advice the income she 
is receiving from her dependants benefits is less than it might have been. 
What happened
Mrs P has been assisted in making this complaint by her son. But in this decision, for ease, 
I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mrs P herself.
The late Mr P was provided with some advice about his pension savings by Aviva in 
December 2008. At that time he already held two annuities with the firm. He approached 
Aviva to discuss purchasing a further annuity with some pension savings that he held with 
another firm. He told Aviva that he had already researched the market and concluded that 
Avivas rates offered the best value.
Aviva provided its advice during a telephone call, and in a subsequent letter. Aviva isnt able 
to provide a recording of the phone call, but has given us a transcript of what was said. And 
it has given us a copy of the letter it sent to Mr P. 
Aviva noted that Mr P was looking to take a monthly income from his pension savings 
without any investment risk. So it recommended that Mr P should purchase an annuity after 
taking the maximum pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  generally known as tax 
free cash). It then discussed with Mr P the way in which his annuity should be structured.
Mr P wanted to maximise the income he received at the start of the annuity. So Aviva 
advised him to take a level annuity  whilst that meant that over time the value of his pension 
income would be eroded by inflation, the starting annuity would be higher. And Mr P wanted 
to provide some income for Mrs P should he die before her. He agreed with Aviva the 
annuity should provide a 50% dependants pension. And he accepted Avivas 
recommendation that the annuity income should be guaranteed for a period of five years.
When Mr P was discussing the annuity with Aviva he made it aware that, although he was 
generally in good health, he was receiving treatment for high blood pressure. Aviva told Mr P 
that he might want to consider requesting an enhanced annuity given his health. In 2014, as 
part of a targeted exercise, Aviva got in touch with Mr P to offer him a review of whether he 
should have been offered an enhanced annuity. Mr P accepted that review, however its 
findings concluded that Mr P had received the best annuity rate he was entitled to in 2008.
Mr P sadly died nine and a half years after taking the annuity. At that time Aviva started to 
pay the dependants pension to Mrs P. But recently she has complained that the advice 
given to her late husband was not in line with Avivas regulatory responsibilities. Specifically 
she says the advice failed to set out the disadvantages of the options recommended to Mr P, 
such as the lack of escalation on his pension income, the potential to instead take a ten year 
guarantee, whether or not to take a PCLS, and the level of dependants income that was 
chosen. 
Mrs Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice Aviva had provided was unsuitable. Its recommendations appeared to meet Mr Ps 
stated objectives, and it didnt appear there were any reasons why Mr P needed to consider 
less common annuity features such as extended guarantee periods, or greater dependants 
benefits. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs P and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Aviva provided Mr P with advice. So it had responsibilities when providing that advice as set 
out in the FCAs COBS regulations. In particular section 9.4.7 at the time said;
The suitability report must, at least:
(1) specify the client's demands and needs;
(2) explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable 
for the client having regard to the information provided by the client; and
(3) explain any possible disadvantages of the transaction for the client.
Mrs P has said that the underlying basis of her complaint is that the suitability report failed to 
meet the requirements I have set out above. But I dont think that is a reasonable basis on 
which to consider this complaint. It might be the case that the suitability report was in some 
ways deficient. But that doesnt mean it caused Mr P to act differently to how he would if an 
entirely compliant report had been provided. So I think the main consideration I should have 
(since I am not the regulator of Aviva) is whether any failings caused Mr P to act differently, 
and so caused him, or Mrs P as his dependant, to lose out.
At this stage I think it is important to acknowledge some very obvious failings in the suitability 
letter that was sent to Mr P. At one stage Aviva referred to Mr Ps male partner when 
discussing dependants benefits. And at another time it referred to Mrs P as Mrs Fletcher. 
I can understand why, when reading that letter now, Mrs P might have some concerns about 
whether the advice provided to her late husband was based on a correct understanding of 
his circumstances.But I am mindful that Mr P didnt appear to express any concerns about the errors Aviva had 
made in the suitability letter at the time. And, from the transcript of the fact finding and advice 
call, I am satisfied that Aviva did hold a full understanding of Mr Ps circumstances. So, on 
balance, I dont think the errors in the suitability letter meant that the annuity Aviva 
recommended to Mr P was unsuitable. 
When taking an annuity there are a number of different options that can be chosen, such as 
whether its value should increase each year or remain constant, whether any dependants 
benefits should be provided, and whether any guarantee periods should be included. But 
each of those choices will have an impact on the ultimate starting value of the annuity, and 
so Mr P needed to balance those costs against his stated desire to maximise the income he 
initially received.
In making those decisions it seems likely that Mr P was guided by the discussion he had with 
Aviva. But I havent seen anything in his circumstances that would lead me to conclude that 
the choices he ultimately made about the features of the annuity were such that I would 
decide it was unsuitable for his circumstances.
When he took the annuity Mr P described himself as being in good health, although I have 
noted that he was receiving treatment for high blood pressure. Mrs P has recently said that 
condition wasnt well managed, or stable, but I havent seen anything that makes me think 
that was something Mr P told Aviva at the time. So I dont think there was anything that 
might mean Aviva should have concluded that Mr P had an impaired life expectancy. And 
that was something that was confirmed when Aviva reviewed whether Mr P should have 
been offered an enhanced annuity when he completed a review of the advice with the firm in 
2014. So I dont think there were any reasonable grounds to conclude, at the time, that he 
might benefit from an extended guarantee period.
I have considered that Mrs P was around eight years younger than her husband. But that 
appears to support the decision to add dependants benefits to the annuity. Statistical 
evidence would suggest that Mrs P might outlive her husband and so benefit from any 
annuity payments that became due to her after his death. I accept that Mr P could have 
chosen to request dependants benefits to be paid at a higher rate than the 50% that he 
selected. But doing so would have greatly reduced the starting annuity that was paid to him 
 and that would appear to be contrary to his demands and needs at the time.
And the same reasons were given in the suitability letter for Mr Ps choice of a level annuity, 
rather than one that would increase each year either by a fixed rate, or a rate linked to 
inflation. By choosing a level annuity Mr P again ensured that he would receive as high an 
annuity as possible at the outset when his financial needs might have been greatest.
My focus when deciding this complaint has not been on any technical compliance by Aviva 
with the relevant regulations at the time. Instead I have looked at whether the advice that 
Aviva gave to Mr P resulted in him making reasonable choices about the annuity features 
that he purchased. With the benefit of hindsight different choices might have been made. 
I was very sorry to hear that Mr P died relatively young, less than ten years after taking the 
annuity. But I dont think that could have been reasonably foreseen when Aviva provided its 
recommendation. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman