DRN-3132416
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by ReAssure Limited to transfer the benefits from his 
preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. Mr D 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes hes lost out as a result.
What happened
In 1995 Mr D was contacted by a business now known as ReAssure to discuss his pension 
and retirement needs.
ReAssure completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and 
objectives. ReAssure also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be cautious.
In October 1995 ReAssure advised Mr D to transfer his preserved pension benefits in the DB 
scheme into a personal pension and to invest the proceeds in a managed fund. The transfer 
checklist completed by the adviser said the reasons for this recommendation were:
The potential to provide better benefits;
To provide flexibility of retirement age, including after age 60;
The ability to choose the investment fund; and
The desire for Mr D to control his pension fund.
ReAssure followed this up with a reasons why letter in December 1995 in which it 
confirmed the reasons why it believed the transfer was in Mr Ds best interest. This 
confirmed that transferring out of the DB scheme meant Mr D would be giving up all the 
guaranteed benefits available. 
Mr D complained to ReAssure in 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice because in 
summary he said that he now realises hes going to receive less income in retirement 
compared to his DB scheme.
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said the paperwork from the time of 
the advice was very detailed and covered all of the risks involved in transferring. It said a 
comparison was made between the existing scheme and a person pension and what rate of 
investment return was needed, which wasnt unrealistic at the time. It said although Mr Ds 
attitude to risk was cautious, he chose the managed fund, which was a medium risk fund. 
Overall it said it made every effort to ensure that Mr D understood the nature of plan and it 
was satisfied the advice to transfer was suitable.
Mr D subsequently referred his complaint to our service. An investigator ultimately upheld 
the complaint and required ReAssure to pay compensation. In summary they said they didnt 
think the advice Mr D was given to transfer was suitable based on his circumstances at the 
time, and because the critical yield required to match the benefits Mr D would receive from 
his employers scheme wasnt reasonably achievable based on his cautious attitude to risk. 
They also said Mr D was giving up valuable benefits. They concluded that, had the adviser 
recommended Mr D remain in his DB scheme, they thought he wouldve likely done so.
ReAssure disagreed. In summary it said that, it considers Mr D was given, and accepted, the 
detailed information about the plan, the risks involved and what he was giving up by 
transferring. It said the projected returns were realistic at the time and within the regulatory 
parameters for providing growth assumptions. It said Mr D was made aware of this and 
considered flexibility around his retirement age to be very important to him. Finally it feels the 
benefit of hindsight has been applied in respect of the likelihood of the growth required to 
achieve the illustrated benefits.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator  I dont think the advice Mr D received to transfer out of DB pension 
scheme was suitable. My reasoning is set out below. 
The advice was provided by ReAssure in 1995 (although it was known by another name 
then). At this time it was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). As ReAssure 
was a previous member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation 
(LAUTRO), the PIA (LAUTRO) adopted rules applied at the time of the advice. 
I can see that our investigator referred to the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules 
in their assessment of the complaint. This was incorrect because these rules did not come 
into force until much later on and so do not apply to the time of the advice. While this does 
not affect the overall outcome of this case, for clarity Ive considered the advice given to Mr 
M with the adopted PIA (LAUTRO) rules in mind. In particular I note:
The adopted LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This 
required advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. 
Paragraph 6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included 
that they should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.Financial viability 
ReAssure says that Mr M wanted to transfer out of his DB scheme because of the potential 
for better benefits through a personal pension. 
The advice was given during the period when the then regulator was publishing discount 
rates for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pension Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I think they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor when the advice was given in this case.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 60  his preferred retirement age - 
was 10.2% if he took a full pension. This compares with the discount rate of around the 
same percentage as the critical yield to retirement. At age 62  the normal retirement age of 
Mr Ds DB scheme  the critical yield was 9.9%. For further comparison, the regulators 
upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and the lower 
projection rate 6% per year. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
In my view there would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. And here, because the critical yield based on Mr Ds target retirement age of 60 
was around the same as the discount rate, it appears that at best, only the same level of 
benefits might be achieved by transferring. But Im also mindful that the critical yield was 
significantly above the regulators lower projection rate and still above the middle rate. 
The critical yield to match Mr Ds benefits at age 62 was slightly lower at 9.9% and the 
relevant discount rate was just over 10%. But again, the critical yield was still higher than the 
regulators middle projection rate. And while the discount rate was marginally higher, this 
needs to be considered in the context of Mr Ds attitude to risk. From the fact-find document 
provided by Mr D, ReAssure recorded his attitude to risk as cautious. And this was defined in 
as willing to take some but generally little risk.  In my view given Mr Ds recorded 
circumstances including his age and investment knowledge and experience, this is an 
accurate reflection of the risk he was willing to take with the investment of his pension.
But Im not persuaded that the transfer was compatible with Mr Ds cautious attitude to risk. 
In my view, to achieve the necessary sustained growth rates, it required Mr D to take 
investment risk which was above his recorded appetite. It appears that at best he might 
match his existing benefits if he invested in line with a medium attitude to risk. But in my view 
there was a real possibility that he could receive lower value benefits than his DB scheme at 
retirement as a result of investing in line with his cautious attitude to risk, which is what 
ReAssures advice ought to have been based on. 
I can see that ReAssure says it is only with the benefit of hindsight that the growth figures 
look unachievable. 
But I disagree - I think it was reasonable for ReAssure to have believed at the time that, 
given the level of growth required set against Mr Ds circumstances including his attitude to 
risk, this wasnt a suitable recommendation to have made on financial viability alone.
To achieve Mr Ds stated objective of higher potential benefits through a personal pension 
would require a sustained growth level, which in my view required him to take a greater level 
of risk than Mr D had indicated he was willing to take.ReAssure says that Mr D was told in the transfer value analysis document that the projected 
value of his personal pension wasnt guaranteed and was subject to market conditions. So 
overall ReAssure believes Mr D understood the risks involved in transferring out of his DB 
scheme.
But ReAssure was under a duty to provide suitable advice. It wasnt sufficient for ReAssure 
to simply ask Mr M to acknowledge that hed been given warnings that the projections 
werent guaranteed or to document that he was aware of the required investment returns to 
match his existing benefits. Merely disclosing information doesnt make an unsuitable 
recommendation suitable. ReAssure told Mr D that it was recommending the transfer 
because the personal pension had greater benefit potential. But I think it was unlikely that Mr 
D would be able to match, let alone exceed the benefits he was entitled to under the DB 
scheme through a personal pension. So, I think ReAssure ought to have told Mr D it wasnt 
in his best interests to transfer out.
Id add here that I can see Mr Ds pension funds were invested in a managed fund. And 
ReAssure has described this in its submissions to us as being a medium risk fund, which I 
would agree with. It also says Mr D chose this fund. It strikes me as odd that ReAssure 
would offer Mr D a medium risk fund given it had assessed his attitude to risk as being 
cautious. Its possible this was because it realised that a great level of risk was required to 
achieve the necessary investment returns. This does mean it would appear Mr Ds fund 
choice wasnt compatible with his recorded attitude to risk. But in any event, given that I 
dont think the transfer overall was suitable or in Mr Ds best interests, its not necessary for 
me to consider this any further.
Overall I think it is clear that Mr D would not be better off and was more likely to be worse off 
financially if he transferred out of his DB scheme. And for this reason alone, I dont think the 
advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was suitable for Mr D. But I accept that financial 
viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice - there might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
Retirement age flexibility 
The transfer checklist said that flexibility of retirement age was important to Mr D, and the 
adviser has written after 60 
I dont think this was a clear enough or suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this 
because, firstly its not clear to me why the adviser has recorded after 60 in terms of Mr D 
needing flexibility. 
Mr Ds DB schemes normal retirement age was 62  so this already offered Mr D the 
potential for retirement after age 60. But if Mr D wanted to continue working beyond 62, 
there was nothing to stop him from doing this. Its possible his existing DB scheme might 
have allowed him to delay taking benefits. 
But if he had to take them at 62 and this provided him with more income than he needed at 
the time because he still wanted to work, he couldve simply saved anything extra for future 
use  I dont think there was any risk to him taking the benefits as they became payable in 
the DB scheme. 
As for flexibility to retire earlier  presumably why the analysis was carried out on a 
retirement age of 60 - Mr Ds DB scheme allowed him to take benefits at 60 albeit with a reduction. But given ReAssure didnt carry out any assessment of Mr Ds likely future income 
needs in retirement, its possible his objective could in any case be met by remaining in the 
DB scheme. Its not clear he needed to transfer his benefits to a personal pension to achieve 
this.
But importantly here Mr D was only 45 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive 
seen, he didnt have any concrete retirement plans. While the advice documentation notes 
that Mr D wanted to retire at 60, as I said above Mr D didnt know and ReAssure didnt 
explore what his income requirements might be. So Mr D couldnt have known whether 
retirement at age 60 was affordable and a realistic proposition. 
Mr D had around 15 years before he thought he might retire. So I dont think it was 
imperative to transfer at this time  I think in the circumstances it was too soon to make any 
kind of irreversible decision about transferring out of his DB scheme.
Overall, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr D to give up his guaranteed 
benefits when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr D later had reason 
to transfer out of his DB scheme  for example because he needed to access a higher 
income than the scheme provided - he could have done so closer to retirement.
Control and choice of investment fund
I think Mr Ds desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr D was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own  indeed the fund choice was a managed fund 
which I think supports my view. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D  
it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
While Mr Ds DB scheme had been wound up by the trustees, it appears that his benefits 
had been secured through the purchase of a deferred annuity. So the funding or financial 
position of his previous employers DB scheme was not in a place such that I think Mr D 
should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension, or that this was a 
suitable reason for the advice to transfer out.
Death benefits
Death benefits was not something ReAssure documented as a reason for its 
recommendation to Mr D to transfer. But I can see that providing protection for his family if 
he died before his normal retirement was something that Mr D indicated was very important 
to him on the fact-find document ReAssure completed (he scored it a number 1 on a scale of 
1 to 4, where 1 was deemed very important). Yet the transfer value analysis, documented in 
the transfer checklist, showed that the death benefits were lower immediately following the 
transfer. And while its recorded that Mr D was happy with his current level of life cover, the 
recommendation to transfer from his DB scheme wasnt compatible with this stated priority 
objective   so I dont think it was in his best interests. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for higher benefits, flexibility, and control on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But ReAssure wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free, and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was at best likely to obtain no more than his existing benefits and in my view he was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. I also think there were no other particular reasons, which would justify a 
transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think ReAssure shouldve advised Mr D to remain in his deferred DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr D wouldve gone ahead anyway, against ReAssures 
advice. ReAssure appears to argue that this is the case because it says that it made Mr D 
aware of and he accepted, the detailed information about the plan, the risks involved and the 
guaranteed benefits he was giving up by transferring.
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded by what ReAssure says. ReAssure 
wasnt just providing Mr D with information  it was advising him. So simply telling Mr D what 
he was giving up didnt make the recommendation to transfer suitable.
And if things had happened as they should have, I dont think Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of his DB scheme and gone ahead in any event. I say this because Mr D 
was not in my view an experienced investor, he had a cautious attitude to risk and at the 
time his pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. I think he relied on 
the advice he was given. So, if ReAssure had provided Mr D with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think ReAssure should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for ReAssures unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
ReAssure must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, if advised suitably I consider Mr D wouldve remained in his DB scheme and 
more likely than not taken his benefits at the schemes normal retirement age of 62.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
ReAssure may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date ReAssure receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes ReAssure to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require ReAssure Limited to 
pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
ReAssure Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require ReAssure 
Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
ReAssure Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on ReAssure Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman