DRN-3811873
The complaint
Ms O and Mr O complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) for its 
decisions to decline their claim and to cancel their policy back to the start of the policy 
period. They want Lloyds to reinstate their insurance and accept their claim for damage.
What happened
Mr O and Mrs O bring this complaint through a third-party representative. 
For the purposes of this complaint I will refer to all comments from either the representative, 
Mr O or Ms O as having come from Mr O.
Mr O purchased a property in 1995, using a mortgage from a business which later merged 
into Lloyds. As part of the mortgage he took out property insurance. Details of the sale of 
that policy are no longer available.
Mr O did not live at the property and rented a home nearer to his work. He says that he 
purchased the property as an investment and as a holiday/weekend home.
The insurance renewed each year in February. Renewal letters were sent to his 
correspondence address, which was his rental home.
Mr Os property suffered thefts during 2000/2001. He made claims to Lloyds in respect of 
these and they were accepted and settled.
In January 2015, a letter was sent to Mr O by Lloyds mortgage services department. It 
detailed that his property insurance was to renew and that changes to the policy would be 
updated by the insurer. It does not appear that this letter included a policy booklet, as it gave 
details of how to get a policy booklet if needed.
The letter detailed:
Please consider carefully whether any of the information you previously gave us has 
changed during the last period of insurance, such as your intended occupancy of the 
property (whether you are intending to let it out or be away from the property for more than 
30 consecutive days for example) or any criminal convictions (other than motoring 
offences).
The letter then stressed that incorrect information could result in the policy becoming invalid 
and all claims being refused.
It does not appear that Mr O informed Lloyds of any changes.
Around mid-October 2015, Mr Os property suffered a break in, and extensive damage was 
caused. All pipes and most fittings were stripped from the property, and structural damage 
was caused.
A surveyor attended and detailed the damage. They also detailed that the hedges and trees 
around the property were overgrown and were causing changes in the property levels.
Mr O submitted a claim to Lloyds. A surveyor attended and spoke with Mr O. The surveyor 
recorded some details of that conversation.
Lloyds then obtained copies of utility bills for the property. The electricity bill showed very low 
usage over the period (although this overlapped with the period when the wiring had been 
stripped) and a water bill showed very low usage for the period April  September 2015.
The Council Tax bill obtained showed that for the period April 2015 - March 2016, Mr O was 
paying a long-term empty premium on the property.
Based on those documents, and on information from its discussion with Mr O, Lloyds wrote 
to Mr O in April 2016 declining the claim and cancelling the policy back to April 2015. It said 
that had it known that the property was not lived in it would not have offered cover.
Mr O complained and Lloyds responded to that complaint. Lloyds did not send a final 
response and so Mr O was not aware he could refer the complaint to us.
In 2021, Mr O complained to Lloyds. Lloyds responded in October 2021. It maintained the 
previous decision to decline the claim and to cancel the policy. It then gave Mr O his referral 
rights to our service.
Mr O complained to us. He felt that the decision was unfair as he had told Lloyds at the time 
of policy inception that he did not plan to live in the house full time. He argues that it is unfair 
to cancel the policy back to before the loss (which is a remedy used in misrepresentation 
cases) when he does not think a clear question was asked, or that he misrepresented that 
he was not living at the property.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter. Due to the time since both the policy 
was incepted, and since the damage was caused leading to this claim, the documentation 
available is not complete.
Our investigator did not recommend upholding Mr Os complaint. He considered that Lloyds 
decision was not unreasonable in the circumstances and he did not ask Lloyds to do 
anything further.
Mr O did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He made some further 
submissions.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in October 2022. In that 
provisional decision I set out that I thought that Lloyds had not applied the relevant 
legislation to Mr Os claim and policy, and so the decision to cancel his policy, and to do so 
retrospectively, was unfair. I provisionally decided that Mr Os policy should be reinstated, 
and Lloyds should now consider his claim in line with the remaining policy terms. I thought 
that Lloyds should also pay to Mr O £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment.
Mr O disputes some of the background that I set out, and reserves his right to dispute that 
background, or details about the earlier claims, in any further claim or complaint. He does 
not submit any alternate background for me to consider as it is not central to this complaint. Mr O advises that he tried to get insurance in 2017 but was unable to do so, possibly due to 
the voidance decision and possibly due to the extent of the damage.
He argues that the compensation I provisionally awarded is insufficient and he points to 
examples on our website where severe impact across a long period of time has been 
awarded higher levels of compensation. 
The business has also responded. It accepts the compensation part of the decision and 
agrees that it did not apply the legislation properly. Lloyds argues, however, that in order to 
consider the complaint Mr O would have to pay the premium which was wrongly refunded to 
him in 2016. Lloyds says that it believes that a policy exclusion relating to the property being 
unoccupied applies and that it is likely to decline the claim. Lloyds therefore queries whether 
proceeding to consider the claim is the best outcome for Mr O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to address Mr Os comments. He is correct that there was a typographical error in my 
provisional decision introduction. I apologise for this. It is also noted that he does not accept 
the entirety of the factual background and may dispute this later with Lloyds. 
Secondly, in respect of the level of compensation I provisionally awarded, I have considered 
his comments but remain of the view that £500 compensation is appropriate. I acknowledge 
that Mr O has experienced severe distress and inconvenience as a result of the damage and 
of the claim not being accepted and that this has lasted for years. I have, however, 
distinguished between the effects of the wrongful cancellation of the policy, and the other 
effects of the situation, and I consider that £500 reflects the impact of the wrongful 
cancellation and the misapplication of the law. 
To increase the compensation to reflect all the effects of the situation would be unfair and 
would be based on predicting a particular outcome of the claim. I therefore consider that 
£500 remains appropriate.
Responding now to Lloyds. I am grateful for the recognition that the cancellation was wrong, 
and the proper process was not followed. 
There is no dispute about the substance of my provisional decision, and that Lloyds was 
wrong to cancel the policy, and so I uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Putting things right
The remaining dispute is about how matters should be put right. 
I understand Lloyds submissions about the possible exclusion which may apply, and that to 
now consider the claim (and to require Mr O to repay the premiums it refunded to him in 
2016) may be a worse result for Mr O if his claim is then declined. I also understand that for 
a policy to exist, a premium is required. 
I think that for Lloyds to require repayment of the premium, in order to decide the claim, 
would present an unfair obstacle to Mr O having his claim assessed and decided. Mr O 
would have to make an assessment of the chance of the claim being accepted and decide 
whether to take a risk. If he is not in a position to take that risk (and the evidence we have 
suggests that he is experiencing financial difficulty), he would be prevented from having a decision on his claim, and he would not be able to complain about that decision to this 
service if he wished to. 
I do not think that is fair, and I have borne in mind that this situation, and the premium being 
refunded to Mr O wrongly in 2016, arose out of Lloyds wrongful actions. Consequently, in 
the particular circumstances of this complaint, I do not think it fair for Lloyds to enforce 
repayment of the premium, in order for Mr O to have that claim decided. 
I therefore consider that the appropriate outcome of this complaint is for Lloyds to remove all 
reference to cancellation of the policy from its own and any central databases. Lloyds should 
then confirm to Mr O in writing that he does not need to declare any cancellation of this 
policy. The policy will instead be treated as having lapsed in April 2016. 
Lloyds should then consider the claim and provide a decision to Mr O with full reasons, and 
details of the complaints process and/or his right to complaint to us. 
If Lloyds accepts and settles the claim, it should deduct the premiums owed for the year 
2015/16 from any settlement. 
If Lloyds declines the claim, then it should not pursue recovery of the premium which was 
wrongly refunded to Mr O in April 2016. This is due to Lloyds being responsible for the 
erroneous refund of premiums, and to Mr Os apparent financial difficulties. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision I uphold Ms O and Mr Os 
complaint and direct Lloyds General Insurance Limited to:
Remove all reference to this policy being cancelled from its own databases, and from 
any centralised databases which it updates; 
Confirm to Mr O in writing that he need not declare a cancellation in respect of this 
policy; 
Consider Mr Os claim and provide him with a fully reasoned decision, and details of 
his rights to complain or appeal that decision; and
Pay to Mr O £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman