DRN-3169659
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to an 
investment scam.
  
What happened
Miss A found someone offering opportunities to invest through a social media account she 
follows. The account owner posed as a broker and said they worked for a firm Ill refer to as 
C. But, unbeknownst to Miss A, the account was in fact operated by a fraudster, with the 
intention of stealing money from people.
The fraudster had posted success stories to their account which seemed to show theyd 
helped people achieve significant returns on investment. Screenshots showed large returns 
and the apparent transfer of funds from the scammer to her clients. 
Miss A became interested and got in touch with the fraudster. She told her that shed 
manage trades on Miss As behalf and take a 25% commission and that she could expect a 
same day return of £1,500 to £2,000 on a £500 investment. The fraudster also told Miss A 
that she offered a no loss guarantee and that her trades were successful 98% of the time. 
Miss A has said she looked for C online and found it was a genuine business. She found it 
registered on Companies House and said it had a professional looking website. She also 
said it was FCA regulated.
Miss A told the fraudster she was sceptical but decided to proceed on the basis of the no 
loss guarantee. The conversation with the fraudster moved onto WhatsApp where the details 
were expanded upon and Miss A was given account details to transfer her £500 investment. 
She made the payment as instructed and the fraudster said theyd begin trading.
Within an hour the fraudster contacted Miss A with an update. saying that her return on 
investment had reached over £1,500 within the first 35 minutes of trading. Miss A then 
continued to receive updates where she was told the return had increased to over £6,000 an 
hour later, £13,000+ after another hour and, finally, over £20,000 after another 30 minutes 
(for a total of around two and a half hours). For the final two balances, the fraudster sent 
Miss A a screenshot which showed the amounts.
At the point the trade had hit more than £13,000 Miss A was told shed have to pay a 
combined administration and release fee of £2,500. She was given the account details and 
she made the payment. Once that was paid Miss A was told there were more fees for 
various reasons including a covid-19 related tax of £1,000, an income tax charge, and a 
CHAPS fee of £1,000.
Miss A questioned some of these fees as she was presented them as shed been told in 
advance of the requests that everything had been paid. And Miss A questioned the CHAPS 
fee, understanding that such a charge would normally only attract a fee of £20-40. But 
Miss A proceeded with each of the payments following assurances from the fraudster.
Miss A realised shed been scammed when her supposed profits never materialised. She 
contacted Monzo the day after sending the money to report the scam and it looked into what 
had happened. Miss A had initially said that she hadnt made the payments herself, which 
sent the investigation in the wrong direction. But she was able to correct the details and 
Monzo considered whether it ought to refund her as the victim of a scam.
Monzo didnt uphold Miss As complaint and offered no refund. It didnt think Miss A had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was engaging in legitimate investment activity. 
Miss A wasnt happy with Monzos response and so brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and, prior to issuing her opinion, 
Monzo made an offer to refund some of Miss As loss. It acknowledged that some of the 
payments shed made ought to have prompted a fraud warning from it. And as those 
warnings werent given it agreed to refund £2,200 (the final two payments) of Miss As total 
loss.
Our investigator considered Monzos offer and felt it represented a fair and reasonable 
settlement.
She considered the provisions of the CRM Code, which Monzo hasnt signed up to it but has 
said its committed to applying the principles of in Miss As case. And so she thought about 
whether Miss A did have a reasonable basis of belief when she sent the fraudster the 
various payments. She didnt find that she did, noting the following:
Miss A came across the fraudster on a social media platform and that was an unlikely 
place for a genuine investment firm to conduct business;
the language used by the fraudster was not professional or what might typically be 
expected of a genuine investment firm;
she acknowledged that Miss A had looked for C online and found a genuine firm, but 
she noted Miss A didnt take further steps to confirm the fraudster worked there or 
that she was genuinely in contact with it;
the investment offering itself was too good to be true, which ought to have caused 
alarm;
othe initial offering was to return a significant amount in a matter of hours;
othe alleged returns on investment that followed appeared more and more 
unlikely;
othere was a no loss guarantee;
funds were sent to five different recipients, with all accounts held in personal names 
(rather than that of a business)
Our investigator said, with all of that in mind, that she couldnt recommend Miss As 
complaint be upheld in full. She felt Monzo had fairly declined to reimburse Miss As total 
loss and that its offer to refund the last two payments was fair and reasonable. 
Miss A disagreed. She felt shed done all the checks she could and found the screenshots 
shared by the fraudster, both from the social media page and whilst the scam was ongoing, 
to be particularly persuasive.
The case has now been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A but Im not telling Monzo to do any more than it already has. I 
know going through this experience must have been very difficult. Scams like this are 
particularly cruel and have both a financial and emotional impact. But having considered 
Monzos actions I dont find its acted unfairly. Ill explain why.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss A in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss A from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Miss A have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Theres no dispute here that Miss A was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was investing money legitimately, with the promise of returns on that investment to come. 
But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss A to receive a refund of the money under the 
CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Miss A too. 
Monzo and our investigator have both said they believe Miss A didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing the opportunity she was presented with was legitimate. Im in agreement 
with that position and for broadly the same reasons.
I find that initial offering made to Miss A was too good to be true. The returns promised, of 
over 300% in a matter of hours, seems highly improbable to the extent it ought to have been 
regarded with suspicion. There was no real explanation (or questions asked) of how such a 
high rate of return could be achieved. And I believe its fair and reasonable to say that this 
ought to have put considerable doubt in Miss As mind.
Indeed, I can see from the evidence that she was sceptical. She told the fraudster as much 
before proceeding with the investment. And so it seems as though Miss A did have doubts 
but decided to proceed anyway.
Miss A has said one of the reasons she went ahead was because of the no-loss guarantee. 
But that seems like a further questionable feature of the investment. Any investment will 
carry a degree of risk and I dont believe someone needs to be an experienced investor to appreciate as much. I believe such a guarantee can generally be described as an unlikely 
and questionable offer. 
And so the starting position here is that I believe Miss A ought to have been wary about what 
she was being told, before sending any money. Miss A has told us she was persuaded to 
continue, in part, because of the fraudsters social media posts about success stories and 
deposits into other peoples accounts. But there was no way for her to  or, as far as Im 
aware, attempt to  verify those posts as legitimate. And so I dont think it was reasonable to 
place a great deal of faith in them. I also think our investigator made a fair point in 
suggesting that the use of social media  and the language used by the fraudster  didnt 
represent what one might reasonably expect of a legitimate investment firm. 
Miss A has explained how she checked C was a real company. It is true C can be found on 
Companies House. But it isnt listed as being an investment broker. There is also a genuine 
website. But it clearly shows that the company isnt involved with investments or providing a 
brokerage service. And so, I dont believe these sources of information can be said to have 
reasonably given a basis of belief. And it is the case that Miss didnt contact C to make sure 
the fraudster did work there, or was who she said she was.
Miss A has said she checked C was FCA registered. But I cant see that they are or ever 
were. It seems shes relied on some information provided by the fraudster for that 
assurance, without checking to make sure it was true.
With all of this in mind I dont find that Miss A had a reasonable basis for belief when she 
made the first payment of £500. I then consider that basis for belief diminishes further as the 
scam goes on and more payments are made. The alleged returns and the reasons for more 
payments being required get less and less believable. Thats because:
the alleged returns rapidly get higher and higher to the point Miss A is told shed 
made back over £20,000 in less than three hours, which strikes me as very 
improbable on a £500 investment;
payments are made to numerous different individuals without a reasonable 
explanation as to why personal accounts are being used;
the fees and charges that are requested hadnt been explained to Miss A upfront;
some of the reasons given dont sound believable, for example;
oits unclear why the investment broker would be collecting income tax for Miss 
A, and she didnt ask any detail;
othe suggestion of a form of covid-19 tax is unchallenged and unquestioned;
oMiss A was aware a CHAPS transfer cost far less than she was being told;
the fraudster gets Miss As name wrong during their conversation.
I have taken account of the screenshots sent to Miss A by the fraudster. These appear to 
show a balance that matches what Miss A is being told shed made. But theres very little 
detail on the screenshots; some figures but little else. Theres nothing to tie the balance to 
Miss A. Nor is there anything that links the numbers shown to any form of trading or 
investment balance. 
With all of this in mind I find that Miss A made each payment to the fraudster without having 
a reasonable basis for belief.
Should Monzo have presented Effective Warnings to Miss A?
Monzo has explained that Miss A wasnt provided with any warnings. Since this service 
became involved in Miss As complaint it has acknowledged that it ought to have done so for 
some of the payments, given the increase in spending and unusual activity on Miss As account. Its on that basis that it has agreed to refund the final two payments made by 
Miss A, totalling £2,200. It has also paid interest on that amount at 8% simple per year. 
I believe the final two transactions represent the point where Monzo ought to have 
recognised a scam risk and presented warnings. And so, because it didnt, its right that it 
should provide a refund to Miss A. Prior to that point I dont find the transactions were so 
remarkable that Monzo ought to have been concerned about Miss As account. 
Where its found that a bank ought to have provided warnings but didnt, and where a 
customer made payments without a reasonable basis for belief, as is the case here, Id 
expect to see a refund of 50% of the loss. Monzo has refunded more than that and so has 
done more than Id expect it to do in the circumstances. Even if Monzo were considering a 
refund of all of the payments, which it isnt and I dont find it needs to, it has still refunded 
more than 50% of Miss As total loss. And so Im making no further award.
Could Monzo have recovered Miss As money?
Where scams of this nature are involved its often difficult for a bank to recover a customers 
losses from the account the money was sent to. Thats because the fraudster will move the 
money on very quickly, making it impossible to return. 
Having seen evidence of the receiving accounts Im satisfied thats what happened here. Its 
clear that the money Miss A sent to the different accounts was moved on right away. And so 
by the time she reported the scam, the money was already gone and there was nothing 
Monzo could do to recover it.  
Putting things right
I understand that Monzo has already refunded the £2,200 and paid the 8% interest it offered. 
If it hasnt it should do so now.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman