DRN-2628590
The complaint
Mrs F and the estate of Mr F complain about poor service from The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited in connection with benefits paid from the late Mr Fs pension policies.
What happened
Mr F held a number of pension policies with Prudential. He became ill in 2019, and sadly 
passed away the same year. Mrs F (for herself and on behalf of Mr Fs estate) says 
Prudentials service was poor in connection with handling the policies. She says it failed to 
promptly deal with a serious ill health claim, and wrongly paid the benefits from one of the 
policies to Mr Fs estate. This meant the proceeds had to be shared between Mrs F and 
other beneficiaries under Mr Fs will.
Prudential accepted that its service had been poor. In particular, it said:
When Mr F became ill, he was told that Prudential couldnt meet him in hospital to 
give advice, when this wasnt the case. 
Its explanation about drawdown wasnt as clear as it should have been.
Mrs F had been given the impression that death benefits from the policies would be 
paid to her.
In light of the very distressing circumstances Mrs F was in at the time, Prudential paid 
£1,000 for the trouble and upset caused.
Prudential didnt accept there had been any delay in processing the serious ill health claim. 
And it said the death benefits had been paid correctly, even if Mrs F had been under the 
wrong impression that the whole amount would be paid to her.
Mrs F was unhappy with Prudentials response, so she referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator concluded that the compensation paid by Prudential was fair, and he didnt 
consider it needed to do anything else. He acknowledged there had been mistakes by 
Prudential, but he was satisfied that the amount of compensation was appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
The investigator concluded that the death benefits had been correctly paid, and he didnt find 
there had been any unnecessary delay in processing the serious ill health claim.
Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs F had a meeting with Prudential in June 2019. They wanted to raise some 
capital for home improvements, and Prudential reviewed Mr Fs existing pension policies to 
achieve this. In addition, Prudentials suitability report said:
You wish to leave any remaining pension funds to [Mrs F] as your chosen beneficiaries [sic] 
on your death.
Prudential recommended a fund that allowed a legacy to be left to a chosen beneficiary on 
death, if not all of the funds were used.
But as far as Im aware, Mr F didnt proceed with the recommended fund. So his benefits 
were paid in line with the terms of his existing policies.
Mrs Fs main complaint is that she was told she would receive all of the death benefits 
payable from the pension policies. But this wasnt the case. The benefits from one of the 
policies were paid to Mr Fs estate, which meant they were shared between Mrs F and other 
beneficiaries under Mr Fs will.
Prudential seems to accept that Mrs F may have been told, in error, that she would receive 
all of the death benefits. I think its possible that Mrs F was told that she would be a 
nominated beneficiary under the new policy she and Mr F discussed with Prudential. But as 
Ive already said, it seems Mr F didnt proceed with that policy, so his benefits were paid in 
line with the terms of his existing policies. 
Ive looked at the terms of the two policies from which the death benefits were paid. The 
terms of the Prudential Personal Pension Scheme say:
Should you die before your pension commences, the value of your fund in respect of on-top 
contributionswill be payable. You may nominate any person (or persons) to receive this 
lump sum. Whether or not you make such a nomination, the Prudential will have discretion 
as to whom the lump sum will be paid
I understand that Mr F nominated Mrs F to be the recipient of the fund, and that Prudential 
made the payment to her in line with his wishes. So as far as I can tell the benefits from that 
policy were correctly paid by Prudential.
The terms for the Prudential Personal Retirement Plan say:
Should you die before your pension commences the value of the premiums you have 
paidwill be paid as a cash sum. Payment will be made to your estate unless the benefit 
has been written in trust for one or more named beneficiaries.  
Mr and Mrs F consulted a solicitor about Mr Fs will in July 2019. It seems they wanted to try 
and make sure Mr Fs pension benefits passed to Mrs F, and this is in line with the 
objectives hed discussed with Prudential. From what Ive seen, following discussions with 
their solicitor I think Mr and Mrs F may have contacted Prudential with an expression of wish 
that Mrs F should be the beneficiary of Mr Fs pension benefits.
Prudential wrote to Mr F on 19 July 2019. Its letter said:Thank you for recently contacting usThe above plan is a retirement annuity contract that 
does not allow the customer to make an expression of wish. Theres no provision under the 
terms and conditions of this plan for you to name a beneficiary simply by writing to us. You 
may therefore find that your requirements can be met by making suitable provision in a Will.
The letter went on to say:
If youd like to put the plans death benefit(s) in trust, you should complete the enclosed trust 
request form(s).
The trust form was enclosed with the letter, but Prudential have told me they didnt receive 
anything back from Mr F. 
The terms of the policy (as set out above) meant that the death benefits could only be paid 
to a named beneficiary if they were written in trust. Otherwise they would be paid to the 
policyholders estate. Mr F hadnt completed the trust form, so the benefits were, as far as I 
can tell, correctly paid to his estate in line with the policy terms.
But Ive thought carefully about Prudentials letter to Mr F, sent after it had received his 
expression of wish. I think Mr F had made it clear from his initial meeting with Prudential, and 
his subsequent expression of wish that he wanted Mrs F to be the beneficiary of the policys 
death benefits. 
But Im not persuaded that Prudentials letter of 19 July 2019 made it clear to Mr F that the 
only way this could be achieved was for the benefits to be written in trust. The first part of the 
letter suggested Mr Fs requirements may be achieved through a will. And even though a 
trust form was included with the letter, Prudential didnt clearly explain that this had to be 
completed to ensure Mrs F received the benefits.
The form was relatively complex, and without better instructions from Prudential I dont think 
it wouldve been immediately obvious to Mr and Mrs F what they needed to do with it to 
achieve their objectives. In addition, the references to the trust in the covering letter came 
with a number of warnings and cautions that may have discouraged them from completing 
the document. 
If Prudential had given Mr and Mrs F better guidance, on balance I think its likely they 
wouldve completed the trust form to ensure Mrs F was the beneficiary of Mr Fs pension 
benefits. Which means the death benefits wouldve been paid to her, rather than Mr Fs 
estate.
In other circumstances, I might therefore be satisfied that Prudential should make a payment 
to Mrs F so that the total death benefit she receives from the policy in question (including 
any amount paid through Mr Fs estate) is equal to the full amount she wouldve received if 
the benefits had been written in trust and she was named as sole beneficiary. 
But there are additional considerations here. Notwithstanding what I consider to have been 
the lack of clarity in the letter about a trust being a means towards ensuring that Mrs F 
received the policy benefits, Prudential did nevertheless invite Mr F to contact it if he had any 
questions about the letters content.
And importantly, as Ive referenced above, it also said that suitable provisions for Mrs F 
might be able to be made within the will. And we know that Mr and Mrs F were addressing 
matters related to the will  hence the enquiry to Prudential in the first place.So I think that, even though the letter may have been lacking in absolute clarity as to the 
potentially beneficial effect of establishing a trust, Mr and Mrs F were nevertheless pointed 
towards provisions being made in the will. I do understand that, due to the particular legal 
requirements of wills in Scotland, there may have been no way of only paying the pension 
benefits to Mrs F. 
But this being the case, it seems even more likely to me that Mr and Mrs F would have been 
incentivised to explore another option  and given the combined weight of the information 
about setting up a trust in Prudentials letter, their solicitors likely awareness of the potential 
value of this facility if this had been shown to them, and the option to revert to Prudential if 
they had questions relating to it, I think Mr and Mrs F ought reasonably to have been aware 
that this was an option for them. 
I dont therefore think it would be fair or reasonable in this case to require Prudential to make 
payment to Mrs F of the whole proceeds of the policy in question.
I appreciate that Mrs F is also unhappy with the way in which the serious ill-health claim was 
handled by Prudential. But like the investigator, Im not persuaded that Prudential created an 
unnecessary delay in dealing with those benefits. So I wont be asking it to do anything more 
in that respect. 
Ive also thought about the payment of £1,000 Prudential paid to Mrs F in respect of other 
failings in the quality of service it provided. This would of course have been a very 
distressing time for Mrs F, and this would have been compounded by a lack of clarity and, in 
certain respects, the misinformation provided by Prudential. In the circumstances, I think the 
payment of £1,000 is about right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and the 
estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman