DRN-2174931
The complaint
Miss S complains about the poor service she received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
when she tried to replace a damaged mobile phone through her home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UK Insurance Limited, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Miss S said paint had been spilled on her mobile phone and a couple of rings. Although she 
was happy to wait for the rings to be dealt with, she needed the phone replacing urgently for 
work. Miss S said shes disabled so it was important to get a replacement quickly. But she 
had to chase UKI before being told her claim had been passed to a validations company 
who couldnt book an appointment for seven days.
Miss S explained that was too long, but she said had to chase for a response again. And she 
felt her calls were dealt with rudely. She was suffering from covid-19 symptoms and didnt 
want to return her damaged phone in case it was unsafe. So she wanted to buy a new 
phone and send her old one when she felt better, but UKI wouldnt guarantee it would refund 
her. Miss S had to use her mobile phone insurance to get a replacement. And she wants 
compensation and an apology from UKI for the poor service.
UKI said it was sorry Miss S was unhappy with the handling of her claim. Itd needed to 
make enquiries to validate the damage. UKI said Miss S had been told on several occasions 
she could replace the mobile on a non-prejudice basis. Its agents could provide a 
replacement and inspect the damaged phone at a later date. UKI said it understood Miss S 
had replaced the phone on her mobile insurance and no longer needed to pursue the claim. 
Miss S wasnt satisfied with UKIs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the calls between Miss S and UKI. And 
she didnt think it would be fair to say UKI had acted inappropriately in not bypassing its 
validation procedure or timescales. She felt itd considered Miss Ss disability but, because 
of other factors, it didnt feel adjustments needed to be made. Our investigator didnt think 
the customer service Miss S had received had been unreasonable in the circumstances. And 
she wouldnt be asking UKI to compensate her.
Miss S didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. She hadnt 
mentioned her disability at first as her main priority was needing a new phone to work from 
home. Shed only mentioned it when she was told her phone needed sending away for 
inspection. Miss S said it was UKI rather than the validation company thatd held things up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint were laid out thoroughly by our investigator, so I wont repeat 
everything here. But I have looked carefully at everything Miss S and UKI have said. And Ill 
focus on the issues that are most relevant to my decision.
Ive looked at the case file and listened to the calls between Miss S and UKI. And I can see 
how frustrating Miss S has found the process. She was working from home and she needed 
a replacement mobile phone as quickly as possible. And shed chosen her insurer because 
they were a large business and she expected they would deal with any claims efficiently. But 
she feels UKI didnt listen to her concerns or take her circumstances into account. And she 
wants compensation for the poor service she feels she received.
I can see Miss S registered the claim at around 1:30pm on the Monday following the paint-
spill. And she called UKI a number of times over the following two days to see how things 
were progressing. 
During the first few calls with UKIs representatives its clear Miss Ss main concern is her 
need for a new phone so she can work from home. Miss S says she felt reduced to tears 
trying to get a straight answer from UKI and its representatives. She seemed to get different 
responses from each department. And she says the validation company suggested she go 
back to the insurer as they might be able to validate the claim sooner. 
So I can understand her frustration and upset at having to chase for a proper resolution. And 
I appreciate Miss Ss urgency for a quick response. But listening to the calls I do think UKIs 
representatives were trying to manage her expectations and explain the processes involved. 
And her claim had only just entered UKIs system when Miss S began calling for updates.
I know Miss S was upset by the service she received. During the calls there is a frustration 
that matters werent moving quickly enough. And I understand her need for a new phone to 
continue working if her employer wasnt able to provide a replacement. Miss S doesnt 
mention during the initial calls that she has a young child and is registered disabled. 
Although this is obviously a concern, the first calls to UKI focus on Miss Ss need to continue 
working. 
Miss S does mentions that she has a landline, although she cant use this for work. So when 
UKI became aware of Miss Ss disability I dont think it acted unreasonably is assuming the 
circumstances didnt present an urgent need to change its normal procedures. Miss S had 
the use of a landline in case of emergency and she had made it clear her main concern was 
needing a replacement smart phone for work use. 
There was nothing to suggest Miss S would be more vulnerable without access to her mobile 
phone, and she did comment if I wasnt remote working, I wouldnt mind. So overall I cant 
say UKI failed to consider Miss Ss disability or treated her unfairly in the circumstances.
I can see UKI apologised that Miss S had been told about settlement options before her 
claim had been reviewed. It was trying to explain what options she would have if claim was 
agreed. And its not unusual for an insurer to instruct a validation company to look into a 
claim before resolving it. If the validation company had felt itd got enough information to 
validate the claim it couldve been dealt with quickly. 
Unfortunately the damage wasnt visible in the photographs and could only be reproduced by 
actually using the phone. UKI felt it needed to inspect the phone before deciding what the 
best course of action would be. Its possible the parts of the screen that werent functioning 
properly may have been repairable rather than UKI issuing a replacement mobile.
Based on what Ive seen I cant really say UKI has treated Miss S unfairly or delayed matters 
unnecessarily. Its normal procedure was to inspect the damage before deciding whether to 
accept the claim. And that would normally take about five days after receiving either the 
damaged item or acceptable evidence confirming the damage. Due the urgency of the situation it re-arranged the consultation to discuss the damage for 
Thursday  less than three days after receiving the claim from Miss S. And while I appreciate 
Miss Ss concerns about work, I do think UKI tried to respond and speed things up. 
Miss S was quite frustrated during some of her calls with UKIs representatives. And UKI 
said its reviewed the calls and provided feedback to its handlers where necessary. But UKI 
said there was no intention to cause upset and its representatives needed to explain 
procedures and gather information to move things along.
Im pleased Miss S was able to get a replacement phone through a different policy and 
continue working from home. And I can appreciate how stressful it mustve been for her for a 
few days while she tried to find solution. 
I know Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. But I overall I cant say UKI treated 
Miss S unfairly or unreasonably. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman