DRN-1954381
The complaint
 Mr B has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has 
unreasonably refused to pay his claim under his pet policy.
What happened
Mr B bought his policy with Red Sands online. It started on 4 November 2018 and it covered 
his dog for her lifetime provided the policy was renewed each year. It had an annual benefit 
amount of £6,000 for vet fees.
Mr Bs dog suffered a right cruciate ligament rupture in January 2019 and underwent an 
operation to repair it. Mr B made a claim to Red Sands on 4 February 2019 to claim for the 
vet costs of this treatment. 
Red Sands asked for the vet history in order to assess the claim. It said as his dog suffered 
a left cruciate ligament rupture in 2015, this claim was excluded as it deemed such issues as 
bilateral conditions and therefore this claim related to a pre-existing condition which was 
excluded under the terms of this policy.
Mr B complained but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance. So he brought his complaint to 
us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
As Mr B is aware the policy says the following:
Condition means any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any 
manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the 
same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body 
affected.
Bilateral condition means any condition affecting body parts of which your pet has two, one 
on each side of its body (eg ears, eyes, knees, cruciate ligaments). When applying a benefit 
limit or exclusion, bilateral conditions are considered as one condition.
 
Pre-existing conditions means any Condition symptom or any sign of a Condition occurring 
or existing in any form and at any time prior to the commencement date.
None of these definitions are unusual in pet policies and many pet insurance providers seek 
to limit bilateral conditions in this way. My role and that of this service is simply to assess 
whether Red Sands applied these terms fairly to Mr Bs claim. My role isnt to assess 
whether these relatively common types of terms or limits on benefits are fair overall as thats 
a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Bs dog suffered a cruciate ligament rupture in her other leg in 
2015. But on that basis Red Sands says the claim for the right cruciate ligament fracture is 
therefore excluded as a pre-existing condition. 
It points to the fact that vet science says such cruciate ligament ruptures in dogs are more of 
a disease process rather than an acute traumatic event. Therefore in the absence of any 
evidence of acute traumatic event such as falling from a great height or being involved in an 
RTA etc, the likelihood that the cause is this disease process is more likely. In its final 
response letter it said the following:
Unlike acute cruciate rupture in humans, trauma accounts for a minority of cranial cruciate 
ligament ruptures in dogs. Chronic cruciate disease accounts for the majority of cruciate 
ligament ruptures and it is recognised as a multifactorial, inflammatory condition. The 
weakened cruciate ligaments slowly fray, eventually becoming weak enough to rupture 
during routine exercise and activity. Usually no specific traumatic event is noted as the 
cause of the cruciate ligament rupture. 
Cruciate disease typically progresses slowly over a long period of time, and the symptoms 
leading up to the rupture can be subtle or absent. Although dogs are acutely lame and 
painful after rupture has occurred, the degenerative phase of this disease is more typically 
associated with intermittent mild lameness and asymptomatic periods.
 
Whilst a period of time may pass between the initial onset of any lameness and the 
diagnosis of a cruciate ligament rupture, this is typical for the degenerative period before the 
cruciate ligament ultimately rupture.
The evidence detailed from Mr Bs own vets doesnt disagree with this opinion of Red Sands 
about the cause of cruciate ligament ruptures. An entry on 21 August 2015 says Mr Bs dog 
was diagnosed with left cranial cruciate ligament disease. The clinical records then note The 
owners are aware of possible complications including sepsis, implant failure, late meniscal 
injury and contralateral cranial cruciate ligament. An entry on 14 January 2019 notes 
Owners have been to [name of vet practice] previously [August 2015] for a TPLO and I think 
the contralateral may need the same?  Throughout the vet history there are several note 
suggesting on examination that Mr Bs dog was stiff in her hinds in 2016, 2017 and 2018. 
So I consider there is no evidence that Mr Bs own vets disagree with Red Sands view on 
the process of cruciate ligament disease. Therefore I dont consider theres anything wrong 
with Red Sands view of this disease process. In addition, it would appear from the vet 
history the degenerative process started some years before the policy with Red Sands 
started.
Im also satisfied that if Mr B had been fully aware of all this, he would have disclosed it at 
the time he applied for this policy. However in common with most other pet insurance 
providers, Red Sands relies on what the vet history says at the time of the claim. If 
something wasnt disclosed at application by the pet owner, it will impose an exclusion when 
it finds out about it, just as it would have done had it been disclosed initially. It doesnt seek 
to cancel the policy for such non-disclosure as insurance providers might do in other types of 
products, it merely excludes the condition as being a pre-existing condition. It doesnt seek 
to treat such non-disclosure as deception, fraud or even just careless. This is because 
insurers accept that a consumer will often be given a lot of oral information when in 
appointments with their vet, with little or none of it being written down for them to take away, and so owners often wont remember all the information theyve been given about their pets 
medical state. 
Mr B seeks to say that the definition of condition must be something that the dog is suffering 
symptoms of. But I consider thats not how the definition in this policy is expressed. It 
qualifies it as occurring or existing in any form and at any time prior to the commencement 
date.
Mr B said, we cannot control what a Vet may or may not record in the notes during a routine 
check up and hes right, he probably cant. But that doesnt mean its not appropriate for Red 
Sands or any pet insurer to rely on whats written in any vet history. It is reasonable for Red 
Sands to rely on what is in the vet history in consideration of the claim, given vets (rather 
than pet owners) would have the relevant expertise to diagnose the pets medical issues. 
Fundamentally insurers are entitled to decide for what risks they want to provide cover and 
which they dont. I consider the definitions are clear and in the absence of any evidence from 
Mr Bs vet disagreeing with Red Sands view of cruciate ligament disease, or any evidence of 
a traumatic event that caused the problem, I dont consider Red Sands has unreasonably 
refused to pay Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman