DRN-3249657
The complaint
Ms M complains that a used car she acquired with a finance agreement from Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2019, Ms M acquired this car under a conditional sale agreement (CSA) she took 
out with Moneybarn. About six months later the car broke down. Ms M was told that a 
coolant pipe had overheated and damaged the engine. She found the supplying dealer was 
unhelpful so she contacted Moneybarn.
Moneybarn liaised with the dealer and the supplying broker and an independent expert was 
instructed to check the car. Moneybarn acknowledged the issue came to light within six 
months of supply but Moneybarn didnt accept it was liable. Based on the experts findings, 
Moneybarn considered the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The manufacturer agreed subsequently to pay for engine repairs but this left Ms M without a 
car for some time. She struggled to maintain her monthly finance payments and pay for a 
hire car at the same time - she had to borrow from friends and family in order to do so. Shes 
unhappy that Moneybarn didnt provide a courtesy vehicle. She found the whole experience 
very stressful and inconvenient. And she thinks Moneybarn should reimburse her out of 
pocket expenses and pay compensation. 
Based on the evidence available, our investigator thought the car probably was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. She was satisfied the manufacturer had paid for 
repairs but she thought Moneybarn should do more to put things right. She recommended 
Moneybarn should refund (with interest) 20% of any monthly instalments paid from January 
2019 until the vehicle was repaired  for impaired use when the coolant system wasnt 
working properly -  and car hire costs of £1,800 (12 weeks at £150 per week) while the car 
was off the road for repairs. She thought Moneybarn should also pay Ms M £200 
compensation for trouble and upset and remove any adverse information from her credit file.
Ms M accepted the investigators recommendations but Moneybarn didnt respond and the 
matter was referred to me for a decision. 
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to reach a different outcome to the 
investigator. In the interests of fairness, I issued a provisional decision - to let the parties see 
my provisional findings (and comment if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I 
have set out what I decided provisionally - and why - below. This forms part of my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete - as some 
of it is here - I make my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I consider 
what is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and I must take account of the relevant law 
(amongst other things). Im satisfied that includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
here. Its not my role to apply the law - only a court can do that. I make my decision based 
on what I think is fair and reasonable - in all of the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn supplied this car to Ms M under a CSA and it was obliged to ensure that the car 
was of satisfactory quality when she got it, under the CRA. The quality of goods includes 
things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects and safety 
and durability. And goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would expect taking all of the relevant circumstances into account - such 
as the price paid as well as the age and mileage (amongst other things), in the case of a 
used car.
This car was about four years old, cost just over £9,000 and had about 36,000 miles on the 
clock at the point of supply. I think a reasonable person would accept that a car of this age 
and mileage wasnt going to meet the same standards as a brand new car - as some parts 
would be worn and need to be replaced sooner or later - which is reflected in the lower price 
paid for a used vehicle.
There appears to be no dispute that a coolant pipe failed in June 2019 causing damage to 
the engine. I can see the expert found a coolant pipe was broken - this had melted at the 
cylinder head fitment end  albeit he thought it was unlikely the coolant pipe was in this 
condition when the car was supplied. Im satisfied, from paperwork Ive seen, that the 
relevant manufacturer acknowledged there is a coolant hose issue in some of its engines - 
like the one in this car. I accept this doesnt mean every breakdown involving this sort of 
engine must have been caused by this defect. But, I dont think cars of this age and mileage 
usually need the engine replacing as the result of wear and tear.
Ive considered the experts report carefully. I think his recorded observations about the part 
that failed seem consistent with the presence of the recalled faulty part. I appreciate the 
expert acknowledged that the relevant manufacturer had recalled some vehicles to modify 
this particular part but he didnt think the pipe in Ms Ms car was subject to this recall - 
because the pipe in her car hadnt been modified. I note however the expert also suggested 
that contact should be made with the manufacturer about this. And I think he probably made 
this suggestion because he wasnt certain if this car had the faulty part or not - based on the 
evidence he had at that time.
Im satisfied that the manufacturer subsequently agreed to pay for relevant repairs to Ms Ms 
car. I think the manufacturer is unlikely to have done so if it didnt think her car had an 
inherent manufacturing defect. And, on balance, Im minded to find its more likely than not 
this car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Putting things right
Broadly speaking, under the CRA, a supplier is entitled to one chance to repair goods in this 
situation. And I realise Moneybarn may say this car was repaired at no cost to Ms M so it 
shouldnt have to do more. But, I dont think thats fair in these particular circumstances and 
Ill explain why below.
I cant see when the car broke down exactly. The expert records the failure date as 8 July 
2019. But I can see (from Moneybarns customer contact notes) that Ms M contacted 
Moneybarn a few days before that to report this issue - and she told Moneybarn then that 
she hadnt been able to drive the car for about four weeks. If Ms M was deprived of the use of the car because of this inherent issue before she contacted Moneybarn in July, I would 
probably find it fair for Moneybarn to refund a proportion of the relevant monthly finance 
payment. But Id need more evidence  including details of when the car broke down - in 
order to be able to consider that further.
On the current evidence, Im satisfied that Ms M seems to have been without the car for 
about three months while repairs were undertaken. I think it was open to Moneybarn to take 
some steps to try and assist her during this time - it could, for example, have tried to speed 
up the repairs or offered to arrange a courtesy vehicle or reduced or suspended finance 
payments.
As far as I can see, Ms M maintained her repayments towards the finance agreement 
throughout. I find it understandable she needed alternative transport while her car was off 
the road for repairs. I can see why she hired a replacement in these circumstances. I dont 
think Ms M would have had to incur this cost if she hadnt been supplied with a faulty car at 
the outset. I dont think it is fair she should be out of pocket in this situation. And I am 
inclined to find it is fair for Moneybarn to refund reasonable hire costs, plus interest.
We asked Ms M for evidence of the hire costs she incurred. Ive seen 12 invoices she 
supplied for hire charges from 5 July 2019 until 4 October 2019, not including the week of 12 
July 2019. Its not clear to me if Ms M didnt hire a car that week for some reason. If she did, 
then she should supply the missing invoice in response to this provisional decision - and I 
will take this into account when I make my final decision. As things stand, the evidence I 
have suggests that Ms M paid for 12 weeks hire at a cost of £150 a week. I am minded 
therefore to find Moneybarn should refund £1,800 for hire charges, plus interest.
Ms M has now confirmed that she was unaware there was a problem with the coolant 
system until the car broke down. It looks therefore as if she was able to use the car from 
January 2019 until the breakdown without any issue or impaired use arising from this faulty 
part. And Im not persuaded Moneybarn should have to refund any monthly payments made 
during this time.
Im satisfied that Ms M is likely to have experienced stress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with this faulty car. And Im minded to find it is reasonable for Moneybarn to 
pay her £200 compensation to reflect that. In the event that Moneybarn recorded any 
adverse information on Ms Ms credit file, I consider it is fair this should be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or information by 11 January 2022, after which time I would make my final 
decision. Moneybarn didnt respond and Ms M hasnt supplied any new information or raised 
any objection to my provisional decision. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions, in the circumstances. 
For the reasons set out above, I remain of the view that its more likely than not this car was 
of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied and Moneybarn should take the steps set out, 
to put things right. 
 My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:-1. refund the cost of 12 weeks car hire at £150 a week, in the total sum of £1,800 
(subject to Ms M providing proof of payment);
2. pay interest on the above refund at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
3. pay Ms M £200 for distress and inconvenience; and
4. remove any adverse information from her credit file.
If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a tax deduction certificate, if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman