DRN-2848076
The complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in connection with a credit card that she took out in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs M says she was put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that Lloyds didnt give 
her a proper choice about taking it. She says she was told she had a better chance of 
getting the credit card if she bought the PPI. Ive noted everything Mrs M has said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs M and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive also looked at the credit card application form Mrs M completed. I can see that 
she ticked the box on the form to show that she wanted the cover. And there was 
nothing on the form to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the 
card.
When I take all of these points into account, and without anything else to support 
what Mrs M has told me, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Lloyds didnt 
make her aware the PPI was optional. 
Lloyds accepts that it recommended the PPI to Mrs M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs M 
has said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and that she had some 
shares through her employers share scheme. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to Mrs Ms employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having 
the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs M could use her employer benefits and 
shares to cover other expenses. From what Ive seen, I think the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit for Mrs M if she couldnt work. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs M would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Lloyds has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
Mrs M has mentioned refunds shes received from Lloyds for PPI she took out with other 
Lloyds products. She says her circumstances were the same when she took out the PPI that 
is the subject of this complaint. So Mrs M considers she is entitled to a full refund in this 
case. I can see why Mrs M might take that view.
But just because a refund has been made for PPI on other products, it doesnt mean that an 
automatic refund should be made in connection with this sale. Loans, credit cards and 
mortgages have different features, which means there are different considerations to take 
into account in assessing a PPI sale. We assess the particular circumstances of each sale 
on an individual basis. 
And having taken that approach in this case, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman