DRN-2809126
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly allowed 
him to open a credit card account.
What happened
Mr C says Barclaycard should not have allowed him to open a credit card account and its 
decision to do so was irresponsible. He says he was in debt at the time and Barclaycard 
allowed him to use the account for gambling and cash withdrawals. Mr C says the account 
was unaffordable and as a result of what took place was forced to take out a loan. He would 
like a large part of the balance written off and interest and charges refunded.
Barclaycard says the account was opened in 2017 and Mr C was earning £12,000 a year 
with limited outgoings. It says it carried out appropriate checks and says there was no 
adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file. It also says he had another active credit 
card account and used a balance transfer at a promotional rate to transfer that balance onto 
his new account. Barclaycard says it has no record of Mr C telling it about any financial 
difficulties but says it will speak to Mr C about them and has provided information about 
organisations that could help him.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard carried out appropriate checks on the application and it was up to Mr C 
to decide how he used the account. The investigator didnt think there any evidence Mr C 
had told Barclaycard about any financial difficulties and thought there no evidence of 
adverse information on Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. This complaint is about a credit facility rather than for example a loan 
or mortgage.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and can see that it carried out affordability 
checks on Mr Cs application and that it appears at the time Mr C had limited outgoings. I 
can see that Barclaycard says it also checked Mr Cs credit file and that no adverse 
information such as recent defaults, missed payments or County Court Judgements were 
recorded on it. Mr C hasnt provided us with a copy of his credit file, and I have no reason to 
doubt what Barclaycard says about the information on it. So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Cs application and that on the face 
of it, the lending was affordable, and the lending decision was not irresponsible.
There is no doubt that Mr C used the Barclaycard account for gambling. I make clear that at 
the time there were no restrictions about doing so and that it was up to Mr C to decide how 
he wished to use the account. I dont think Barclaycard could have known about that before 
the account was opened unless Mr C told it that he had a gambling problem. And I have not 
seen any evidence of that. I think on balance it was the gambling that caused the financial 
difficulties and not the decision to allow the account to be opened.
Im satisfied Mr C would have agreed to the account terms and conditions about fees and 
interest when the account was opened. And so, I cant fairly order Barclaycard to refund 
those charges and fees when I think they were correctly applied. I also make clear to Mr C 
that even if I thought Barclaycard made a mistake by allowing the account to be opened in 
the first place, I would not have ordered the balance or part of it to be written off as clearly 
Mr C had the benefit of that money. And so, it would have been unfair to have done so.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that Barclaycard has fairly given Mr C contact details of its 
specialist department and has given him details of other organisations that may be able to 
assist him. So, I find Barclaycard has acted as I would have expected it to have.
Overall, I find Barclaycard didnt make a mistake by opening the credit card account and 
carried out appropriate and proportionate checks on it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman