DRN-3739758
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com failed to 
explain why it didnt provide a full refund of his premium when agreed under his home 
insurance policy and provided a poor service. 
What happened
Mr T contacted his insurer Aviva to make a claim for storm damage. However, Mr T had 
moved house and Aviva didnt know. Aviva said it wouldnt provide insurance for Mr Ts new 
home.
Mr T had to contact Aviva a number of times to request a refund of his premium. He said he 
received conflicting information in calls and when Aviva did provide a refund, it said he owed 
a balance which it kept from the refund amount of £26.46. Mr T asked Aviva to provide an 
explanation of what the deduction was for but Aviva didnt provide one. 
Mr T asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator asked Aviva to provide its file and 
confirm what the deduction was for. Aviva provided some information and advised that the 
£26.46 was deducted as an adjustment - but didnt clarify what the £26.46 adjustment was 
for. 
The Investigator found from the email exchanges provided by Mr T that Aviva had provided a 
poor service and failed to explain what the deduction was for. 
So she recommended Aviva refund the £26.46 with interest from the date the policy was 
cancelled to the date Aviva pays Mr T. And she recommended Aviva pay Mr T £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service had caused. 
Mr T accepted the Investigators view. Aviva hasnt replied. So the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think from the evidence provided by Mr T that Aviva failed to respond to his reasonable 
requests for information and hasnt provided an explanation as it why it kept £26.46 from the 
refund it provided when it cancelled his policy. Mr T paid for his policy in monthly 
instalments. There isnt anything to suggest Mr T didnt pay his premium when due. 
In its final response to Mr Ts complaint, Aviva acknowledged that Mr Ts complaint was in 
relation to the premium refund. But it simply said the following:
The total amount collected was £227.40. The policy cancelled with a return premium 
of £229.70 due, however there was an outstanding balance of £26.46 which adjusted 
the amount to £203.24 returned to you.
As Aviva hasnt provided a clear explanation as to what the adjusted amount was for, I dont 
think it was reasonable to deduct it from the refund to Mr T. And I think the lack of 
explanation and poor service by Aviva caused Mr T unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. Its clear he contacted Aviva several times to obtain a full refund and an 
explanation without success. 
So I agree with the Investigators recommendations which Ive set out below and Im 
upholding Mr Ts complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited trading as 
Quotemehappy.com to do the following:
Provide a refund of £26.46 with interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a 
year from the date of cancellation to the date it pays Mr T.
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman