DRN-3571638
The complaint
Miss W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has treated 
her unfairly by terminating her hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Miss W entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to fund the acquisition of a car in 
September 2020. The cash price of the car was £23,650 and Miss W made an advance 
payment of £283.33. The agreement required Miss W to make 45 monthly payments of 
£357.92, save for a payment holiday in the first three months, followed by a final payment of 
£9,720.00. The total payable under the agreement was £26,119.73.
VWFS subsequently terminated Miss Ws agreement in September 2021 due to non-
payment. 
Miss W raised a complaint with VWFS in October 2021. She said she had made the 
payments shed been required to and provided bank statements to demonstrate it. She 
asked VWFS to reinstate her agreement.
VWFS declined to do so. It said Miss Ws payments started to fall behind from April 2021 
and it wrote to her and sent her texts about missed payments on a number of occasions. It 
said it had issued a default notice on 12 July 2021 which hadnt been satisfied, so the 
agreement was terminated in line with the terms of the agreement, on 10 September 2021. 
VWFS said it had reviewed the statements Miss W provided and it had also contacted her 
bank, which said that payments from June to September 2021 were not showing on her 
account. VWFS asked Miss W to liaise with its collection agent regarding the return of the 
car.
Miss W referred a complaint to this service. She said she hadnt received any letters from 
VWFS but accepted shed received a few text messages which she says she followed up. 
Miss W said that her bank disagreed that payments had not been made, and maintained that 
VWFS had not treated her fairly by terminating the agreement. She said she believed 
payments had been rejected in error and mentioned that a change of the date of her direct 
debit could have contributed to this.
The case was passed to one of our investigators, who obtained Miss Ws account 
statements from her bank. Our investigator concluded that the statements only showed 
payments to VWFS in March and April 2021, which was consistent with VWFSs version of 
events. They noted that Miss W had told us about letters from her bank which suggested 
that payments had been rejected in error, but because we hadnt been provided with that 
evidence, they concluded on balance that the payments in question had not been made. 
Our investigator said that the evidence provided didnt show that Miss Ws direct debit date 
had been changed, nor that shed made any contact with VWFS until after the agreement 
had been terminated. They were also persuaded that VWFS had tried to contact Miss W on 
a number of occasions about her missed payments, and that the contact details it held were 
the same as the ones Miss W provided to this service. 
Overall, our investigator concluded that VWFS had acted fairly by terminating the agreement 
given the circumstances. They didnt think that VWFS were under any obligation to reinstate 
the agreement, despite Miss W offering to now make payments towards it.
Miss W disagreed. She provided letters from her bank about the matter  suggesting that 
payments had been rejected by VWFS. 
Our investigator spoke to Miss Ws bank again. It said that it could not find any record of a 
claim made against VWFS, nor could it find record of sending the letters Miss W had 
provided. Our investigator maintained that the evidence theyd been provided showed, on 
balance, that payments had not been made, so they still thought VWFS had acted fairly.
Miss W disagreed. She disputed that VWFS had tried to contact her by telephone and 
maintained that the direct debit date for the agreement had been changed. She said that 
shed provide evidence of both. Miss W said that shed never refused to pay sums owed to 
VWFS and commented that if it was necessary, she could pay the outstanding balance.
Miss W made no further submissions, but the case has now been passed to me to decide 
what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
At the outset, I think its clear here that weve been presented with contradictory evidence. 
Miss W contends that her bank says that payments were made but rejected and has 
provided bank statements to demonstrate this. Evidence this service has received directly 
from Miss Ws bank show no payments being made to VWFS except for March and April 
2021, and it cant find record of any dispute about payments being rejected.
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence Miss W has provided. Particularly the statements 
and letters she says were provided from her bank. Ultimately, however, Im more persuaded 
by the evidence weve received directly from Miss Ws bank. I think its fair to say that its the 
most reliable source of evidence when it comes to determining what payments were made  
or rejected  from an account it provided to Miss W. 
So, like our investigator, the evidence Ive been given persuades me that Miss W failed to 
make a number of payments towards her agreement. Ive not been presented with any 
evidence which satisfies me that Miss Ws failure to make those payments were as a result 
of any errors made by VWFS. 
Additionally, Im also persuaded by way of the evidence which VWFS has provided 
regarding its contact with Miss W. VWFS has provided statements for Miss Ws agreement 
as well as copies of the correspondence it sent her. These show that VWFS wrote to Miss W 
about arrears on three occasions at the address provided by Miss W. By the point VWFS 
wrote to Miss W on 12 July 2021, the agreement was three payments, or £1,073.76 in arrears. That letter asked Miss W to make a payment to extinguish those arrears by 31 July 
2021. It also said that failed to do so could result in the agreement being terminated and the 
recovery of the car.
Ive not been persuaded that theres a plausible reason that Miss W wouldnt have received 
those letters. Even if that had been a possibility, Miss W accepts that she received texts 
regarding the matter too and Ive seen that as many as ten were sent, as well as emails 
asking for Miss W to contact VWFS. Ive also seen evidence that suggests VWFS tried to 
contact Miss W by telephone before terminating the agreement. So, I think Miss W ought 
reasonably to have known that there was an issue with the payments she been required to 
make. Despite this, Ive not been presented with any evidence that persuades me that Miss 
W made contact with VWFS to discuss the matter or make payment towards her agreement 
before it was terminated. 
Overall, I think that VWFS took reasonable steps to make Miss W aware that her account 
was in arrears and the potential consequences of not bringing it up to date. I also think it 
gave Miss W fair opportunity to contact it regarding that matter as it waited until 10 
September 2021 before terminating the agreement.
In conclusion, taking into account that VWFS didnt receive any payments towards the 
agreement between April and September 2021, I think it acted fairly by terminating it. Im 
also satisfied that the agreement allowed VWFS to take that action in the circumstances. 
Now that the agreement has been terminated, I find no reason to require VWFS to reinstate 
it, despite Miss Ws offer to make payments. I find that VWFS provided Miss W with 
sufficient information regarding her obligations after the agreement had been terminated.
Lastly, and with reference to Miss Ws assertion that an issue with a change of the direct 
debit payment date couldve affected payments being made, Ive not been presented with 
any evidence that Miss Ws direct debit payment date was changed, or that if it had been, it 
wouldve had an impact on payments being made. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman