DRN-2786501
The complaint
Mr F complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Talis Financial Advisers 
Ltd (Talis) to transfer his existing group personal pension (GPP) plans into a new personal 
pension with the same provider. He says Talis told him he needed to transfer quickly as his 
employer would no longer be paying him after his 65th birthday  even though that was 
incorrect. He says he was pressured into signing the transfer paperwork and now wants 
the commission that Talis received to be repaid.
what happened
Mr F held benefits in two GPPs set up by his employer. In July 2019 he met with an adviser 
from Talis at his workplace and discussed options around drawing his pension benefits, as 
hed received retirement packs from his pension provider. Mr F would be 65 in two months 
time. Talis subsequently met Mr F at his home in September 2019 and identified that he 
would like to replace the monthly income he would lose on his retirement. Mr F said he 
intended to reduce that required income figure when his state pension  and then his wifes, 
became payable. 
Talis recommended that Mr F transfer his GPPs into a personal pension with the same 
provider, which would allow him to draw a monthly income through a flexi-access drawdown. 
The transfer completed the following month. Talis charged Mr F 2% of the fund as an initial 
fee with an ongoing adviser fee of 0.75%. 
Talis said that Mr F had asked it to ensure he was paid the equivalent of his previous 
monthly salary, but then in October 2019 it said he called to explain that he wouldnt be 
leaving his job and so no longer required the income from his new plan.
However, Mr F said that when he met the adviser in September 2019 and discussed his 
financial situation, he didnt tell the adviser that he intended to start taking his pension and 
didnt say that his employer had stopped paying him. He later spoke to his employer who 
confirmed that he was still employed, so he rang Talis to stop his pension being transferred 
but was told the process was already under way. 
So Mr F complained about the suitability of the advice hed received  initially to the pension 
provider, but then to Talis, who didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr F had signed 
paperwork to engage its services and then to confirm receipt of its suitability report. So it 
didnt think it had misrepresented anything. It accepted that Mr F had contacted its office to 
explain that he was still receiving income from his employment  but said this was simply to 
confirm he no longer needed income from the new plan.
 
Mr F was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint should be upheld. He made the 
following points:
He didnt think the adviser would have approached Mr F without some prior indication 
that Mr F was considering taking his benefits at age 65.
He didnt think the adviser was responsible for Mr Fs decision to carry on working 
after consultations with his employer.
But he didnt believe it was appropriate to switch Mr Fs GPPs into a personal 
pension. He thought Mr F could have simply taken his income from the GPPs, albeit 
at 2 monthly intervals instead.
He said such action wouldnt have affected Mr Fs tax situation and would have 
meant that he paid lower charges on his plan.
He thought Mr F already had a suitable vehicle to provide the income he required in 
retirement, so he thought the recommendation to transfer to a new personal pension 
was unsuitable.
He said the pension provider had confirmed that Mr Fs GPPs could be reinstated. 
So Talis should ensure that Mr Fs pension was switched back and it should meet 
any reinstatement costs as well as ensuring the GPPs were worth what they would 
be now- had Mr F not transferred. He also thought that Talis should refund Mr F half 
its initial fee.
Talis didnt agree. It said it didnt believe the existing GPPs would have provided an income 
broadly equivalent to Mr Fs usual monthly income. It said the evidence would support its 
view that Mr F wouldnt be able to budget if he made six larger withdrawals instead of 12 
smaller ones. It also said there would be tax consequences as the PAYE wouldnt balance 
itself out until the end of the year  which wouldnt be appropriate for Mr F either.
The investigator said that, while he accepted that Mr F had little in the way of assets, his 
expenditure had been recorded as £600 less than he was asking to draw from the pension. 
So he thought Mr F would have been able to budget accordingly. He also believed that Mr F 
wouldnt have needed to make further tax planning in respect of the withdrawals and that, at 
worse, the situation would have resolved itself by the end of the tax year. 
But Talis didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it 
was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that I thought Mr F would have remained in his existing 
GPPs and I said that Talis ought to ensure the original GPPs should be reinstated  
meeting any provider costs involved and invested into the same funds. I made the following 
points to support my conclusions:
I wasnt persuaded that Talis precipitated a transfer of Mr Fs benefits by telling him 
that he would be leaving his employer at age 65 and wouldnt have any further 
income.
But I then considered the overall suitability of the advice to switch from the GPPs to 
a personal pension.
When considering the options Mr F had regarding his retirement provision the use of 
a drawdown facility wasnt unsuitable given Mr Fs circumstances.
But his existing provider had launched access to single income withdrawals from 
income drawdown which he could have used from his GPPs and wouldnt have 
incurred any costs or required him to transfer out.
He needed to be comfortable with the income withdrawal structure of the providers 
drawdown option  which was six single income withdrawals with a 12 month period. 
Talis didnt think Mr F would have been able to budget properly using this strategy 
based on his previous experience and habits. But I thought it wouldnt have been 
much different for Mr F to budget for two months instead of one month  so I thought 
it was appropriate for Mr F to use that facility. I also thought he had more freedom to 
choose how much he wanted to withdraw every two months instead of being restricted to a regular monthly income as was the case with the plan Talis 
recommended. 
I considered the question of taxation as Talis said the deduction of emergency tax 
would mean Mr F would be worse off until his payments had corrected themselves at 
the end of the tax year. But I thought this could be avoided by Mr F providing his tax 
code to the provider and in any case, I thought Mr F would regard the lower charges 
of this plan to be more beneficial than any other issues around budgeting and tax. 
I looked at the charges between both plans, including the initial charge Mr F had to 
pay Talis. I found that the total regular charges were nearly three times higher for the 
plan Talis recommended.  I thought Mr F would have chosen to remain within his 
GPPs based on this information and I didnt think it was in his best interest to 
transfer. 
Talis recommendation was to draw his £2,000 from the first available month which 
would have given the residual fund a shorter investment horizon in which to make up 
the effect of the charges.
I hadnt seen sufficient compelling reasons to justify the transfer and I thought Mr Fs 
overriding objective would have been to preserve his fund as far as possible  which 
would have been helped by paying lower overall plan charges. The providers 
alternative plan allowed Mr F the same features of flexi-access drawdown, access to 
the same funds hed been invested in, and without the higher charges.
Talis had said that Mr F would benefit from simpler administration with the new plan. 
But Mr Fs only had two GPPs  which were held with the same provider, so I didnt 
think the administration relating to the GPPs would have been too onerous for Mr F 
to deal with. 
Responses to my provisional decision  
Mr F accepted my provisional decision and said he had nothing further to add. Although he 
did say that he was happy with the income hed been receiving. But Talis didnt agree. It said 
it believed its advice had been suitable given Mr Fs circumstances at the time. It made the 
following points in support of its submission:
The crux of the complaint was about the difference between the existing GPPs and 
the ability to use a flexi access drawdown facility against the new plan that Talis 
recommended. 
The issue of the frequency of the withdrawals within the new plan remained but there 
were other disadvantages around its flexibility. The GPP version allows for 
crystallisation of the 25% tax free element with the remainder being placed into the 
drawdown facility where further withdrawals have to be made. In addition, for each 
withdrawal, Mr F would need to inform the provider how much he wishes to withdraw 
and then wait for the provider to draft a letter confirming his instruction before signing 
that instruction and returning it. Talis believes these processes show that its 
recommended plan was far more flexible and appropriate for Mr F in his situation. 
Although the fund charges of the new plan were higher Talis didnt believe the funds 
Mr F was already invested in were appropriate as they were mainly cash and gilts 
whereas it thought he needed a more suitable long term investment strategy as part 
of a drawdown facility. 
Its initial fee was discounted because Mr Fs employer was a major client of Talis. 
And Mr F selected the ongoing service charge because it was appropriate for him  
the regulator had given guidance that drawdown clients should receive regular 
ongoing reviews.
Talis accepted that Mr F could have paid for advice on an ad-hoc basis but thought 
most clients didnt seek advice under those conditions which wasnt its preferred option for Mr F in his circumstances. And it also accepted he could have paid for the 
advice from his own resources but it thought his resources were quite limited. And 
although its client agreement made provision to collect the adviser charge for a 
minimum of 12 months, the suitability report it issued stated that Mr F could have 
cancelled the ongoing service at any time. 
Talis set out the thorough process it had to go through to provide Mr F with what it 
thought was suitable advice. It considered that Mr F had benefitted from that advice 
and agreed to pay a fee on that basis. It didnt think it was right for Mr F to be 
refunded the fee as it hadnt misrepresented his situation regarding his retirement 
date or his existing GPPs.  
Talis understood that the provider had already reinstated the original GPPs, so it 
believed the only outstanding matter was that of the advice fee which it thought Mr F 
had previously agreed to pay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having carefully considered Talis further submissions I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings
The advantages and disadvantages of the two schemes
Talis says that, apart from the issue of the frequency of the withdrawals  every two months 
compared with each month- there are other differences to be considered such as the nature 
of the withdrawals and the administration involved. So Ive carefully considered the key 
features document for the GPP drawdown plan Mr F could have transferred directly into 
without charge. It states that you can move some or all of your existing pension fund to 
income drawdown and take a tax free cash sum. Normally 25% of the amount you move will 
be paid as a tax free cash sum. The amount you move to income drawdown will remain 
invested until youre ready to start taking income from it. Any subsequent income 
withdrawals will be taxed as income.    
Its not clear to me how this is different to other flexi access drawdown plans and it would 
seem that the plan offers a simple way to draw tax free cash and income (six single 
withdrawals per year) without having to transfer to a different provider with the charges that 
would have incurred. Talis has suggested that its recommended plan was more flexible, and 
I cant reasonably say that it isnt. But I dont think the GPP drawdown plan is inflexible and I 
think it would have been perfectly adequate for Mr Fs requirements.
Talis has referred to the complex administration process involved in making each withdrawal 
from the GPP drawdown and says it isnt as straightforward as that offered by the plan it 
recommended. I havent seen anything in the terms and conditions to confirm what Talis has 
said but I have seen the following explanation about withdrawals:
 
Units will be cancelled once we have received your instructions and any other 
documentation that we might reasonably require to proceedwe will tell you what 
documentation we need when you contact us about your request to take benefits.
Normally we will require your instructions to be in writing but reserve the right to accept 
verbal instructions subject to our agreement.
So theres no suggestion of a draft document from the provider which Mr F has to check, 
sign and return before payment can be made, and there is a suggestion that, in time, the payment might be made on Mr Fs verbal instructions. But, even if I am wrong about the 
process, and while I accept it may be more onerous than Talis recommended plan, I dont 
think its something that Mr F wont be able to manage. 
In my view Mr F would be willing to take on some extra personal responsibility to set up his 
withdrawals in return for significantly less charges than those imposed by the other new 
plan. It would be in Mr Fs best interest to maximise the amount of pension fund he would 
have available to him throughout his retirement.
The charges
Talis has explained some of the charges involved, although it accepted that the new plan 
was more expensive than if Mr F remained with the GPP drawdown plan. It said its initial fee 
was discounted by more than one third and the ongoing charge was included as the 
regulator strongly recommended that drawdown clients receive ongoing advice. It also said 
that, contrary to what was stated in its client agreement, the suitability report confirmed that 
the ongoing charge could have been cancelled at any time.  
I dont think that Talis fees were excessive or inappropriate for the work involved in the 
transfer. But I dont think the transfer was necessary, because I think Mr F would have 
preferred, if hed been provided with a comparison of both plans, to have paid significantly 
lower ongoing fees and avoided an initial fee of around £4,000. Despite Talis explanation of 
the fees involved theres no dispute that the charges were higher when Mr F transferred to 
the new plan. In my view these charges would have been the most compelling factor in 
Mr Fs decision as to what was in his best interest. I havent seen any other reasons which 
outweigh that factor and show that a transfer was appropriate for Mr F in the circumstances.
summary
Ive said previously that I didnt think Talis misrepresented the situation as Mr F approached 
his retirement date. I dont think it precipitated the transfer of Mr Fs benefits and I think its 
recommendation to transfer to a drawdown type plan was suitable for Mr F in the 
circumstances.
But there was an option for Mr F to remain with his existing provider and take advantage of a 
recent innovation to use his GPP as a drawdown plan with no transfer involved and no extra 
costs or charges. He could also remain invested within the same funds. 
The only consideration for Mr F was whether he could accept the alternative way of 
obtaining his income, which meant applying every two months (or six times per year) for the 
amount he required. I know Talis thought this would inconvenience Mr F as it wasnt in line 
with how he had previously budgeted and it thought its plan offered a better alternative when 
drawing income. But I dont think this task would have been too onerous for Mr F, who I think 
would have been motivated to apply for the income he would have needed regularly. And I 
think the flexibility of applying for his own income might have allowed him to tailor the 
amounts he needed, instead of relying on the same fixed monthly income.
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think the process is particularly onerous or different for Mr F 
and I think its in his interests to make his applications from the GPP drawdown, in order to 
benefit from the lower charges and potentially greater residual fund from which he can draw 
the income.   
Putting things right
Talis has suggested that the provider had already reinstated Mr Fs GPPs accordingly to a 
letter dated 30 January 2020. But Ive found out that isnt the case and the provider confirmed sometime later that it hasnt reinstated the original plans. 
So, Talis must ensure that Mr Fs original GPPs are reinstated to the value that they would 
be now be, had they remained invested in the same funds throughout this process, and 
allowing for any income that Mr F has received from the new plan. Talis should also meet 
any reinstatement costs that are due to the provider.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Talis shouldnt retain any of its fees  as 
the advice it gave Mr F hadnt been suitable and I thought Mr F should be put as close to the 
position hed now be in before any advice was given. Ive seen nothing new to make me 
change my decision on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Talis Financial Advisers 
Ltd, who should pay the amount required to carry out the correction as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman