DRN-4058918
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained about how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt
with a claim on its property insurance policy.
Mr K, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf. For ease of reading, I will
refer to E throughout.
What happened
E owns a property which is rented out to private tenants. During the Covid-19 pandemic E
was unable to inspect the property due to the Governments restrictions. Due to Es tenant
not paying the monthly rent, E had the tenant evicted through the courts. When E regained
possession of the property it was inspected, and damage identified so E claimed on its policy
with Ageas.
Ageas reviewed the claim and accepted it. Ageas initially made an offer of just under
£15,000 to settle the claim. E didnt think this was enough and said it was closer to £20,000
to repair the damage and cover loss of rent while repairs were carried out. Ageas reviewed
the claim and said it had made a mistake and so reduced the settlement to £2,500, subject
to the policy excess. Ageas said this was because the majority of the work claimed for was
caused by wear and tear and how the property had been maintained. Ageas therefore also
didnt agree the damage meant it was uninhabitable and said it wouldnt pay anything for
loss of rent.
E didnt think this was fair and complained. Ageas reviewed the complaint and maintained its
position. It said the policy didnt provide cover for wear and tear, breakdown/repair or general
maintenance. Ageas also said 13 excesses would apply as there were 13 different areas of
damage. Unhappy with Ageas response, E referred its complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be partially upheld. He didnt
find Ageas had acted unfairly by not covering the areas of the claim which related to wear
and wear, breakdown/repair or general maintenance. He also didnt think there was sufficient
evidence to show the loss of rent should be covered. However, our investigator didnt think
Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably by charging 13 excesses of £100 each, and so
recommended Ageas reduce this to one excess of £100.
Ageas accepted our investigators recommendation. E did not. E said it was wrong for
Ageas to overturn its initial offer without saying who approved it to be overturned. E also
didnt agree the damage to the property wasnt covered. E said the damage was either
accidental or malicious, which the policy covered and therefore thought the whole claim
should be covered.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2023 where I said:
Es policy covers its building and contents for certain events, these are known as insured
events or perils. For a claim to be covered by the policy, an insured event needs to occur,
which E must show. In this complaint, E has said its property suffered damage by its
previous tenant and that this was either accidental or malicious. Ive therefore focused my
decision on these areas of the policy when considering Es claim.
Both accidental damage and malicious damage have their own sections in the policy.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as: Damage caused as a direct result of a single
unexpected event. Malicious damage isnt defined in the policy, Ive therefore considered
the ordinary everyday meaning and think its reasonable to consider that it is damage
caused on purpose.
Ageas has accepted the claim and said it is covering the damage which it thinks is either
accidental or malicious. In doing so its calculated a settlement figure of £2,500 which E
disputes. Ive asked Ageas how it came to this figure and its provided a breakdown of parts
covered which includes repair to the dining room ceiling, living room carpet, broken phone
sockets, broken electrical sockets, broken floor tiles, cracks to the bathroom wash basin and
toilet pan, ceiling fan and other items which it has quoted as costing £2,500.
I understand E disputes this amount and says it has cost more than £2,500 to repair this
damage. Ive reviewed the invoices E has provided and while I can see its paid significantly
more than £2,500 to get the property up to the required standard. It doesnt break down the
costs of each area and therefore Im unable to see what E actually paid for the work covered
under the policy. Even if I could see it in this invoice, it doesnt mean Ageas offer is
unreasonable as Id need to be satisfied E paid a fair and reasonable amount. And one
invoice/quote isnt enough to persuade me E paying more than Ageas has quoted for the
work means E paid a fair and reasonable amount for the work. And as Ageas breakdown
appears to cover the broken items in Es property, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable
amount for Ageas to pay, subject to the policy excess.
In regard to the remaining damage, Ageas has said its not covered as its either wear and
tear, breakdown/repair or general maintenance. Its explained this is because . The
policy excludes damage for wear and tear and define it as: Wear and tear, corrosion,
gradually operating cause, rot of any kind, woodworm, fungus, mildew, rust, insects, moth,
vermin, faulty workmanship, any cause that happens gradually, or mechanical or electrical
breakdown.
E has also explained that some items were missing from the property, such as door and
cabinet handles which its needed to replace. Ageas has explained that these items arent
covered if theyre stolen by the tenants., Ive checked the policy wording and it does say theft
isnt covered under buildings or contents if carried out by the tenant. As it appears the
previous tenants took these items, Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably by not
covering them in the claim.
For the loss of rent Ageas has also said this isnt covered as the property wasnt
uninhabitable due to the damage covered by the policy. The policy says it will only cover loss
of rent if the property cant be lived in as a result of loss or damage covered by an insured
event. Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms
and conditions when only covering part of the work needed to Es property. From reviewing
this work it amounted to £2,500 compared to the almost £20,000 worth of work E said the
property needed to make it habitable again. Im not satisfied the damage covered by the
policy was the main cause of the property not being habitable for over two months, as the
property needed significantly more work to enable E to be able to rent it out again. Im
therefore not persuaded Ageas has acted unreasonably by not covering the loss of rent E
has claimed for while this work was completed.
Ive also considered whether Ageas did anything wrong by making an offer of almost
£15,000 and then reducing that upon review. I understand this would be inconvenient for Eas it had started work on the property to then find out it wouldnt be covered. This in turn has
caused E to question why Ageas changed its position and whether the person making that
decision was qualified. While Im satisfied it was inconvenient for E, it wouldnt be fair and
reasonable for me to tell Ageas to pay its original offer. This is because Im satisfied how it
ultimately settled the claim was fair and reasonable and hasnt caused E a loss it otherwise
wouldnt have had, I therefore also dont think Ageas needed to say who changed the
decision as long as it explained why. However, Ageas not explaining the reduction
sufficiently did cause E unnecessary inconvenience as it spent time trying to find out why the
position had changed. Therefore, Ageas should pay E £200 to compensate it for the
unnecessary inconvenience caused by not explaining the reduction sufficiently to E.
E responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. It said that it hadnt been provided 
with a copy of the policy documents and if it had known how limited it was it probably 
wouldnt have bought the policy. E also explained that the contractors used hadnt provided 
detailed quotes and that it wasnt uncommon for contractors to not produce much detail in 
their quotes. E also said that evidence had been overlooked and questioned which level of 
burden of proof it needs to meet. E finally said that the letter from the estate agent shows the 
property wasnt habitable and therefore felt that I dont think there are health and safety rules 
for renting out a property. 
Ageas responded and didnt agree with the compensation offered. It said E had been sent 
an e-mail the day the offer was reduced along with the reasons and that a call was made the 
following day which also explained the reduction, but a copy of the call wasnt available. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both responses, but Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
decision. Ill first address Es response. 
I understand E is frustrated with the limitations of the policy and not receiving the documents 
and said it wouldnt have bought the policy if it knew how limited it was. While I understand 
Es frustration, in this decision, Im only considering how Ageas dealt with the claim. If E is 
unhappy with the sale of the policy, then that would need to be raised separately.
In regard to being able to see what repairs E paid for, I understand E said this isnt possible 
due to how the contractors produce the quotes and invoices. However, just because the 
contractors E uses didnt explain what E has paid for, doesnt mean its fair and reasonable 
for Ageas to pay the quotes. I say that because the policy only covers certain events and 
therefore to determine if its been applied correctly, I would need to see evidence of the work 
completed and why.
I would like to assure E that I have reviewed all the information provided by both parties 
when reaching my decision. While E said that I dont think there are health and safety rules 
when renting out the property, I disagree. I understand there are certain rules to be met, 
however my role is to consider whether Ageas dealt with its claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, not whether the property was in a suitable condition for E to rent out. 
Ive also considered Ageas response and Im not persuaded to change from my provisional 
decision. Ageas provided the e-mail sent to E when the initial claim amount was reduced, 
and while it does have some information in, Im not satisfied E fully understood the reasons. I 
say this because it only lists some parts and says why theyre covered but not why other 
sections didnt fall within the policy. Im also not able to listen to the call made the next day to understand what was discussed and so it follows that Im not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional decision as I think this poor claim handling caused E unnecessary 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay £200 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman