DRN-3651370
The complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card application and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr R applied for a credit card with Aqua. In his application, Mr R said he 
was self employed with an income of £26,000. Mr R also said he was single and living with 
parents. Aqua carried out a credit search and found Mr R owed around £12,400 to other 
lenders. Aqua also found a default that was 16 months old at the time of application. A credit 
card with a limit of £450 was approved. 
In June 2019 Aqua increased Mr Rs credit limit to £1,350 and in October 2019 it was 
increased to £2,750.  Regular payments stopped in March 2020. 
Last year, Mr R complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly. Aqua didnt agree and said it 
had carried out reasonable checks before agreeing to lend. An investigator at this service 
looked at Mr Rs complaint and upheld it. They thought Aqua shouldve carried out better 
checks before increasing the credit limit in June and October 2019. Aqua didnt agree and 
asked to appeal, so Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. 
These checks should take into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs 
to the borrower each month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the 
relationship between lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider 
carrying out more comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a 
sustainable way.
When Mr R applied for his credit card, Aqua took information about his circumstances and 
living situation. In addition, Aqua took details of Mr Rs income and checked his credit file. 
Based on that information, Aqua approved a credit limit of £450. 
I think its fair to say the original credit limit was reasonably modest and, in my view, the 
checks completed were proportionate to the borrowing. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aqua to approve the initial application based on the information it held. 
In June 2019, Aqua increased Mr Rs credit limit threefold to £1,350. Whilst I understand 
Mr R had made payments to Aqua, the account had only been active for four months when 
the assessment was completed. In two of those four months, Mr R withdrew cash from his 
credit card. In addition, Aqua was substantially increasing the credit limit using the same 
information. In my view, this wouldve been a reasonable point for Aqua to consider 
completing better, more proportionate checks, to ensure Mr R could sustainably manage 
higher repayments. 
I note that, in the months that followed, Mr R withdrew a substantial amount of cash from his 
credit card. In August 2019 alone Mr R withdrew £1,370 in cash incurring a reasonably high 
fee. Again, I think this shouldve shown Aqua Mr R had become reliant on credit to make 
ends meet and that it shouldve carefully considered whether to extend the borrowing further. 
Again, I think Aqua shouldve completed better checks before increasing the credit limit to 
£2,750. 
Ive considered the sort of checks Aqua couldve carried out. Theres a range, but one option 
was looking at Mr Rs bank statements to get a picture of his circumstances. Mr R has sent 
us copies covering the period above. Looking at them, I can see Mr R was gambling 
significant sums that took up a substantial part of his income. Had Aqua carried out better 
checks, like reviewing Mr Rs bank statements, Im satisfied it wouldnt have increased 
Mr Rs credit limit in June and October 2019. 
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing Aqua to refund all 
interest and charges applied to balances over £450 from October 2019 onwards. Aqua will 
need to discuss affordable repayment options going forward. And once Mr R has cleared the 
outstanding balance, Aqua should take steps to amend his credit file to remove adverse 
information, including its default. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
settle as follows: 
- Rework the account to ensure that from June 2019 interest is only charged on the 
first £450 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should 
have been provided
- If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
NewDay should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
- Once no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed 
from the credit file
- If the refund brings means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated 
as overpayments and returned to Mr R plus interest of 8% simple from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement  
- If the debt has been sold to a third party, NewDay will need to work with it to put the 
above settlement in place. If necessary, NewDay should consider buying the debt 
back in order to ensure it can settle in line with this decision. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman