DRN-2665761
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the charges applied to an international payment from his account with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc.
What happened
Mr M wanted to send some money from his account with Barclays to his account in Pakistan. 
On 9 November 2020, he sent an initial test payment of £2, which arrived in his Pakistani 
account without issue. And no charges were applied. So, on 12 November 2020, Mr M sent 
a payment of £48. But only £13 arrived in his Pakistani account  there was an £35 charge 
applied by an intermediary bank, and this was deducted from the amount Mr M sent.
Mr M was unhappy with the charge applied and he complained to Barclays. Barclays 
explained that they cant know what charges will be applied by any intermediary banks. And, 
because Mr M had chosen to send the payment using the SHA (shared) payment option, he 
was responsible for these fees. Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays response, and he brought 
his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Barclays had made it clear, in both the payment instructions and the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms account, that Mr M was responsible for paying Barclays 
fees, and that any fees for other banks would be deducted from the amount sent. He also 
said that the terms and conditions made it clear that payments would be sent through 
intermediary banks.
The investigator said that Barclays had followed Mr Ms instructions, and it wasnt 
reasonable to expect them to know what another bank may charge for processing the 
transaction  Barclays didnt charge Mr M for either transaction, and the test payment was 
too small to attract a fee. So, because of this, the investigator didnt think Mr M needed to do 
anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hes been sending international 
payments through Barclays since 2018, and this is the first time hes been charged a fee like 
this. He said he wasnt aware that an intermediary bank would be used  he was prepared to 
pay any fees charged by Barclays or by the receiving bank in Pakistan. But he doesnt think 
he should be liable for any intermediary banks fees. So hes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this has caused Mr M. Ive no doubt he wasnt 
expecting to have to pay a £35 fee for sending £48 to his account in Pakistan. But, for me to 
agree that Barclays should cover this fee, Id need to be satisfied that it was charged 
because of their error and/or that they never made Mr M aware that the any such fee could 
be charged. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen what Mr M wouldve seen on Barclays online banking, when he asked for the 
payments to be sent to his account in Pakistan. Under the section headed Charges and 
delivery Barclays confirmed their charges  in this case, they werent charging anything. 
And Mr M wouldve been given a range of options as to how any other charges would be 
paid. Its not disputed that Mr M chose the option of Ill split the charges  it was explained 
on screen that this meant he would pay Barclays charges, and the recipient would pay any 
other charges. As Mr M was also the recipient of the money, any other charges would also 
be his responsibility.
Ive also seen the Terms and Conditions that apply to Mr Ms account. Under the heading 
International payments these say International payments you ask us to make usually have 
to be sent through other banks, which are chosen either by us or another bank. Mr M hasnt 
complained that hes never received a copy of the Terms and Conditions of his account, or 
that Barclays have never kept him up to date with any changes to these. So Im satisfied that 
Mr M wouldve been reasonably aware that an intermediary bank may be used.
So, it was clear from the information that Mr M saw on screen when setting up the transfer, 
and from the information Barclays had already provided him in the terms and conditions, that 
he would be responsible for paying:
a. any charges applied by Barclays (as the sender)
b. any charges applied by either the recipient bank or any intermediary bank that was 
used (as the recipient)
And this is what happened.
Barclays have explained that, as they didnt have a direct relationship with the receiving 
bank, an intermediary bank was used. And they couldnt be aware at the time the transfer 
was requested how much, if anything, the receiving bank and/or intermediary bank would 
charge. Which is why they couldnt tell Mr M what these charges would be at the point where 
he requested the transaction. I think this is reasonable.
And Mr M has said that, although hes used Barclays for international payments before, hes 
never sent any money to this particular bank before. So hes never experienced the use of 
an intermediary bank before. And, because he wasnt charged anything for the initial £2 test 
payment, he wasnt expecting to be charged anything for any subsequent payments.
While I appreciate what Mr M is saying, Barclays have no control over what, if anything, an 
intermediary bank will charge. So, as theyd made Mr M reasonably aware of the potential 
use of intermediary banks, and Mr M knew (as the recipient) he was responsible for any 
charges applied by any bank other than Barclays; I dont think Barclays have done anything 
wrong, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman