DRN-2162772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) didnt 
assess Mrs Ds claim under her critical illness policy against the correct criteria. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a decreasing term life and critical illness policy in July 2002. The 
initial sum assured was £151,445 and the policy term was 24 years. The policy included 
permanent and total disability cover (PTD). An exclusion was applied to Mrs Ds policy that 
meant she wasnt covered for any disease or disorder of, or injury to, the left hip including its 
supporting musculature and ligaments. 
In February 2019 Mrs D submitted a PTD claim. The claim was assessed by L&G who said 
that as Mrs D hadnt been in gainful employment since 2002, her claim would be assessed 
based on her ability to perform the functions outlined in her policy. The claim was 
subsequently turned down. Mrs D was unhappy as she thought her claim should be 
assessed under the own occupation term in the policy. Mrs D complained to this service in 
2019. 
Mrs Ds complaint was looked at by an ombudsman in January 2020 who said L&G acted 
fairly, based on the information it had at that point in time, when it assessed Mrs D under the 
functions definition. They said there wasnt enough information to show she was in gainful 
employment at the onset of her disability. The ombudsman concluded that if Mrs D felt new 
information she had from HMRC about her employment history would make a difference, 
she could submit it to L&G for it to reconsider. And if L&G declined the claim again, Mrs D 
would be able to submit a new complaint to this service. 
So Mrs D submitted additional information to L&G and asked it to reconsider her claim.
L&G again declined the claim. When Mrs D complained, it issued a final response letter in 
July 2020. It outlined Mrs Ds complaint as follows: 
Mrs D said she provided it with new information to show she was in gainful 
employment prior to her disability. She felt this was sufficient for it to consider her 
claim under the own occupation definition for PTD. 
Mrs D said she was unhappy with the service provided by L&G and the lack of 
communication during the reassessment of the claim. 
L&G said it reviewed Mrs Ds complaint from January 2020 onwards, which was the date the 
ombudsman looked at the earlier complaint. It said Mrs D had referred to wanting her claim 
assessed under the own occupation policy term, but L&G said the policy only provided 
cover for any occupation. In any event, it said its decision to assess Mrs Ds claim under the 
functional definition is correct. L&G said while it doesnt dispute any of the medical 
conditions Mrs D suffers from or the permanency of these conditions, it doesnt have any 
medical information which confirms Mrs D was permanently unable to perform four of the six 
functions listed under the policy. So it said Mrs D doesnt meet the definition for PTD. 
L&G said Mrs D provided information from HMRC which she said shows she was employed 
immediately prior to the onset of her disability. However, L&G said none of this changed its 
mind about assessing Mrs Ds claim under the functional definition. It said the reasons 
behind Mrs Ds employment up to 2017 was to gain eligibility for national insurance stamps 
towards her pension. L&G didnt think this could be seen as gainful employment. It 
acknowledged that the service it provided when assessing Mrs Ds claim fell below its usual 
standards and it offered Mrs D £400 compensation. 
Mrs D was unhappy with L&Gs response and so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. He said Mrs D needed to have been in 
gainful employment when she became unable to work, for her claim to be considered 
under the occupation section of the policy. Mrs D provided a P45 to show she was 
receiving an income in 2017 but our investigator said he considered what Mrs D said about 
her employment history when she first made a claim with L&G. And he said that as Mrs D 
said her role was mostly on paper, and she was employed to allow her to be eligible for 
national insurance stamps on her pension, L&G acted fairly when it assessed her claim 
under the functions definition of the policy. 
Mrs D was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
The crux of Mrs Ds complaint is that L&G has refused to assess her claim under the own 
occupation definition of the policy. She doesnt think its fair for L&G to assess her under the 
functions definition, given that she was employed by her husbands company in 2017. 
Ive first of all looked at the question of whether Mrs D has cover for own occupation or any 
occupation, as I can see that Mrs D has made numerous references to having own 
occupation cover. This issue has already been dealt with by the ombudsman who looked at 
Mrs Ds complaint in January 2020. So I will simply reiterate what was said by the 
ombudsman then. And this was that L&G decided not to offer Mrs D the own occupation 
definition after her policy was underwritten. The ombudsman said this was confirmed in the 
acceptance letter dated 5 July 2002 and the policy document dated 8 July 2002. This means 
Mrs D does not have cover that allows her to claim under an own occupation definition. She 
can either be assessed under any occupation or the functions definition of the policy. And 
whether or not Mrs D was in gainful employment at the onset of disability is what decides 
which definition her claim would be assessed under. 
When the ombudsman reviewed Mrs Ds complaint in January 2020, they said they were 
satisfied the evidence L&G had been provided with up to May 2019 showed that Mrs D 
wasnt in gainful employment before April 2017, which was approximately the date Mrs D 
began claiming employment support allowance. But the ombudsman was aware Mrs D had 
wanted to seek further information from HMRC, if her employment was in dispute, and the 
ombudsman felt she should be given the opportunity to do this. What this means is that I am 
only assessing the additional information that Mrs D has provided since May 2019, to see 
whether this might be enough to say she was in gainful employment up to 2017. The HMRC documents provided by Mrs D show she was employed and paid a salary by her 
husbands company until the end of March 2017. But the issue here is that Mrs D had earlier 
provided information to L&G about the nature of this employment. She referred to her role as 
mostly a role on paper. I did not have duties as such apart from paying the odd bill and 
opening the occasional letter. And my understanding is that Mrs D said she was employed 
by her husband to allow her to be eligible for her national insurance stamp towards her 
pension. L&G relied on what Mrs D said about why she was employed by her husbands 
company to say that her employment was not gainful. And the HMRC documents provided 
by Mrs D didnt change its stance in this respect. 
Im satisfied that L&G acted fairly when it said the additional HMRC documents didnt 
change its decision to assess Mrs D under the functions definition of the policy. The 
documents provide information about employment dates and Mrs Ds salary and so they 
confirm she was employed by her husbands company. However, I think its fair to say that 
Mrs Ds job was, as she said, essentially a role on paper. From what she said, Mrs D wasnt 
employed by her husbands company so that she could work in return for a salary, she was 
employed by the company primarily so that she could be eligible for her national insurance 
stamp towards her pension. And so I dont think it would be fair, for the purposes of deciding 
how to assess Mrs Ds claim against the terms of this policy, to say that she was in gainful 
employment at the onset of disability.  
When Mrs D responded to our investigators assessment, she said her role was not solely on 
paper and that the quantity of work she did was small because her husbands firm was 
small, hence the statement she made. She said she was doing a job she was qualified to do 
and the quantity of work shouldnt be questioned. Mrs D said that, if necessary, she can 
provide evidence of her duties. But I dont intend to ask Mrs D to do this. I think that its fair 
for L&G to rely on the information Mrs D initially provided it with about why she took on the 
role and the duties she said she undertook then. 
I can see that Mrs D also provided L&G with additional information about her medical 
conditions and her Personal Independent Payment assessment. But while I have a great 
deal of sympathy for Mrs D, given that shes been unwell for some time now, I cant see that 
the additional information provided indicates that she cant perform four of the six PTD 
functions outlined in the policy terms. So although I know my decision will disappoint Mrs D, 
Im not asking L&G to take any further action in relation to the current claim. 
When L&G responded to Mrs Ds complaint, it awarded her £400 for the poor service it 
provided while assessing her claim. So, for completeness, Ive looked at whether this 
compensation was enough. And Im satisfied it was. There were a number of occasions 
where L&G didnt keep in contact with Mrs D and Im sure this will have caused her 
unnecessary stress. But I think £400 is fair compensation for this.  
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman