DRN-3619216
The complaint
Mr C and Miss H complained that they received poor advice from Nationwide Building
Society about their mortgage. They said that this meant they lost the opportunity to change
their existing lending to a better rate, then port this to their new home.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mr C and Miss H about their joint mortgage. But Mr C has taken
the lead both in dealing with Nationwide and then in pursuing this complaint with our service.
So Ill refer to his comments, although these are made on behalf of them both.
Mr C told us there were two issues in this complaint, that Nationwide gave misinformation
about a mortgage switch, and that it failed to advise him about internal restrictions it has,
which mean its not possible to apply to switch a current mortgage to a different product, and
apply for additional lending at the same time.
Mr C and Miss H took out a mortgage in 2018, with a rate that ended on 31 March 2021. 
Mr C told us they were already planning to move house before their existing mortgage deal
came to an end. Mr C wanted to apply for a new deal for the existing lending, then port this
to their new property, along with some additional lending. But he said that by the time he
found out how Nationwide needed him to make these applications, and that his application
for the rate switch on his existing lending couldnt overlap with his application to take out
some additional lending, he was too late. He and Miss H werent able to switch their existing
mortgage and apply for new lending without delaying their sale and purchase.
Mr C said that because of this, their existing mortgage moved on to the highest standard
variable rate for the time before they completed the sale of their old house. Then they had to
redeem their current mortgage and take out a new mortgage for the purchase of their home,
which was again at a higher interest rate.
Mr C said this was extremely stressful, and told us about an underlying health condition that
meant it had a particularly serious effect on Miss H.
Mr C said that this all went wrong because he was told by a branch manager in early March
that they had until the end of March to agree a new deal on their existing lending. But they
didnt, the application had to be completed by 26 March, and it couldnt be made in the same
month as their application for additional lending. So Mr C wanted Nationwide to refund the
extra they had had to pay each month on their mortgage, and pay compensation.
Nationwide said it didnt agree. It said that it couldnt be sure what happened on the call with
the branch manager, as those calls werent recorded. But it said that it had sent Mr C a letter
on 9 March 2021 which he confirmed hed received. That letter told him that the cut-off date
for applying for a new rate on his existing mortgage was 26 March 2021.
Nationwides position was that this letter had told Mr C the change needed to be completed
by then, not done on that date. Nationwide said that this deadline was a result of the time
needed to change a direct debit for the next month.
Nationwide thought that the problems Mr C experienced were all because he didnt read this
letter. So Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. It thought it had told Mr C what
he needed to know, and it wouldnt change the mortgage rate.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that if Mr C had read
the letter Nationwide sent on 9 March, he would have been aware of the deadline that was
coming up, to change the existing mortgage deal. So our investigator didnt think that what
had gone wrong was Nationwides fault.
Our investigator understood Nationwide had accepted responsibility for what had gone
wrong at first. It offered £100 in compensation and to revert the existing mortgage rate back
to the original rate. But when Mr C turned that down, Nationwide looked into this complaint in
more detail. It then changed its mind about whether it had made a mistake and withdrew its
offer of compensation. Our investigator said Nationwide is entitled to change its mind, and
withdraw its previous offer.
Mr C didnt agree. He said Nationwide was being given the benefit of the doubt about what
was said, on a call it had chosen not to record with the branch on 11 March 2021. He
thought that call should have included correct information about any deadline for changing
his mortgage, and it didnt. He said hed relied on the incorrect advice given then, otherwise
he would have read the letter Nationwide sent.
Mr C also thought Nationwide should have told him that switching rates is counted as a new
mortgage application, and he couldnt have two applications running at once. This was
important for his circumstances, and there was no other way for him to tell this was the case.
Mr C wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so this case was passed to
me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Both Mr C and Nationwide have focussed on whether the conversation Mr C had with a 
branch manager on 11 March 2021 was misleading, and whether Mr C ought to have 
relied on what he says was said then, about the deadline for switching his existing 
mortgage.
We know now that Mr C had to complete the process to agree a new deal on his 
existing mortgage by 26 March 2021. And he says he was told, wrongly, that he had 
until the end of the month to switch. But I dont think that this was the only opportunity 
for Mr C to be told this, and I dont think that Mr C would necessarily have been in a 
better position if hed read the letter that Nationwide sent. Thats because the letter sent 
to Mr C only dealt with part of his concerns  moving to a new mortgage rate when his 
old rate ended. It didnt deal with the impact of having another application (for entirely 
new lending) running at the same time.
If Mr C had read this letter, then he would have known he either had to make his 
application for a new deal by 26 March or pay the standard variable rate for that month. 
But Mr C couldnt have known, from this letter, that by missing that deadline to switch 
his existing mortgage, he wouldnt just pay more for one month. He would actually run out of time to agree a new deal for the existing lending before he wanted to have his 
new borrowing in place. Thats apparently because Nationwide does count the two 
things he wanted  a rate change on his existing lending, then some additional lending 
for a new property, as two applications. And Nationwide will only do one application per 
month.
I think Nationwide did have an opportunity to tell Mr C this. He also spoke to Nationwide 
on 13 March 2021, and booked a time to talk to a mortgage advisor. Information was 
taken then for a decision in principle on his new lending. That call was recorded.
Mr C gave this call handler a number of important pieces of information. He told the call 
handler he wanted to change his existing mortgage to a fee-free tracker, and to port this 
lending to his new home. He also said there was a sale agreed on their house, the 
existing mortgage deal finished at the end of that month, and he was concerned about 
how long it would take to agree a new mortgage, because he didnt want anything to 
delay the purchase.
I think that Nationwide had all the information, on this call, that it needed to advise Mr C 
about his existing mortgage. The call handler could have warned Mr C that he needed to 
change his existing mortgage well before the end of the month, and indeed as soon as 
possible, because he couldnt apply to amend his existing rate, and to add new lending, 
at the same time.
And Mr C did ask about porting his existing lending on this call. He wanted to know if he 
would be better off doing that. But this call handler told Mr C she would set aside the 
issues about whether he would be better off porting some of his existing lending or 
taking out an entirely new offer, and the mortgage advisor would deal with those issues. 
Because of that, Mr C didnt know he couldnt do the two things he and Miss H wanted  
to agree a new deal for the existing lending and apply for more lending - at the same 
time. And I think thats the key problem here, not that Mr C didnt know about the 26 
March 2021 deadline. Had he been advised on this, Im satisfied he couldve taken 
steps sooner to make sure that the two things he wanted to do, change his existing 
mortgage and then apply to port it, couldve both happened.
Without Nationwides prohibition on considering two lending applications at the same 
time, Mr C could still have applied to change his existing lending, and to take out new 
lending, at the end of March or start of April 2021. Its this rule that stops overlapping 
applications which caused Mr C to have to take out entirely new lending for his new 
mortgage.
Given what Nationwide knew, I think Mr C should have been warned about this, possibly 
on the call he had with the branch manager on 11 March, but definitely on the call he 
had on 13 March. And he wasnt.
Mr C thought this cost him a very significant amount of money. It looks like Mr C may 
have reached this conclusion partly because he thought the existing lending could have 
been agreed at a rate applicable to a percentage of his new homes value (this 
percentage is called the Loan To Value, or LTV, and usually determines the interest rate 
a lender will offer).
But thats not how porting works. Any change to Mr Cs existing lending would be 
worked out on the LTV of his old property (the one he was living in at that time) then this 
lending could potentially have moved, at this rate, to the new property. Any higher rate 
would apply to the additional lending he took out, but again, crucially, this would be 
worked out on an LTV based on his total borrowing, not just the additional lending.Mr C also said that he could have taken out a mortgage at a more attractive fixed rate 
for five years, on his new home. But I note that although Mr C and Miss H initially 
considered a five-year fixed rate when looking at new lending, they eventually decided 
to opt for a two year tracker of 3.09% on 16 April 2021. Their new property needed 
work, so they decided to take out a two year tracker initially, with no fee and no early 
redemption charge. Mr C envisaged taking out a better deal, at a lower LTV on a fixed 
rate product in the future, once the work was done. And I note that Mr C and Miss H 
have now done this, taking out a two year fixed rate of 1.34% on 01 December 2021.
Ive explained what I think has gone wrong here. So Ill set out now what I think 
Nationwide should have done, and what I think would have happened as a result.
Mr C should have been told on 13 March 2021 at the latest, that if he wanted to change 
the existing mortgage deal to the two year tracker that he mentioned, then he should do 
that quickly, so he could then make his second application (for porting and further 
lending) without delay.
I think Mr C would then have applied for a two year tracker, the deal he said he wanted 
on the 13 March call, for his existing lending.
Nationwide thought Mr C had an LTV of 85%, but he and Miss H had agreed a sale at 
£11,000 more than Nationwides assumed valuation for their property. Mr C said he had 
three valuations at this amount. Nationwide offers a light-touch appeal against its 
valuation, which can take 24-48 hours. What both sides have said about this makes me 
think that Mr C is likely to have been successful in an appeal against Nationwides 
valuation, and he would then have switched the existing lending to a two year fee free 
tracker, at 1.99%.
Mr C would then have ported this part of the mortgage to their new home, and arranged 
the rest of this lending at the most advantageous rate available, which I think would 
have been the two year tracker at 3.19% that they did eventually take out.
So I think that Nationwide should rework this mortgage now, on the basis that Mr C and 
Miss H made the changes above, so their existing lending was moved onto a two year 
tracker rate of 1.99% as at 1 April 2021, and remained on this rate until 1 December 
2021.
This will mean Mr C and Miss H have overpaid on part of their lending, from 1 April 2021 
to 1 December 2021, the date when their further change to a five year fixed rate took 
effect. I think Nationwide should refund this overpayment to Mr C and Miss H, with 8% 
simple interest added from the date of their overpayments to the date that Nationwide 
makes the refund.
Mr C and Miss H also wanted compensation for the stress that this caused them, and 
the effect on Miss Hs health. I think any mortgage application, along with the sale of an 
existing home and the purchase of a new one, is always a stressful event. But Mr C has 
told us this problem caused the Mr C and Miss H additional stress, and hes described 
the impact this had on Miss Hs health. For those reasons, I think Nationwide should 
also pay £100 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C replied for himself and Miss H. He said that having gone over the details again, as set 
out in my provisional decision, they thought this was now a fairer reflection of the situation, 
and goes a way to putting things right. So they didnt feel they needed to make any 
additional points at this stage. 
Nationwide wrote to say that it was happy to agree with my suggested resolution in principle. 
It did think it should give Mr C and Miss H some money back. But it didnt think Id used quite 
the right rate for recalculating the mortgage. It thought the interest on Mr C and Miss Hs 
mortgage would have been a little bit higher than I had suggested.
I have discussed this with Nationwide, and it appears that Nationwide had suggested a 
slightly higher rate may apply because it thought that the rate calculation should be based on 
interest options available at 13 March, and also because it wasnt working on the same LTV 
as I had proposed. I hadnt set the LTV out explicitly in my provisional decision, and I have 
apologised to Nationwide for any confusion this has caused. 
I think its appropriate to use a rate available at 13 March, when Mr C should have been told 
the key information about needing to make two applications. And I think its appropriate to 
use the under 75% loan to value which my calculations in the provisional decision above 
produced. 
I have discussed the applicable rates and the relevant time with Nationwide, and it has now 
agreed that it will make the refund Id suggested, on the basis of 1.99% interest, which Mr C 
could have accessed for his original borrowing if hed been given the key information on 13 
March. 
Nationwide has helpfully set out the relevant figures, so that Mr C and Miss H will know what 
to expect. It says that it will 
Refund £487.67 in payments made plus 8% simple interest from the date of each of 
the payments to the date of settlement. This will be calculated as the total in 
overpayments in the contractual monthly payments from how the mortgages were to 
how they shouldve been.
Refund of £56.69 in respect of too much interest paid on the old closed mortgage.
Write off £204.73 off the new mortgage balance in respect of too much interest being 
paid.
Pay £100 compensation for trouble and upset..My final decision
My final decision is as follows 
Nationwide Building Society must rework Mr C and Miss Hs mortgage, on the basis that 
their existing lending was moved onto a rate of 1.99% as at 1 April 2021, and remained 
on this rate until 1 December 2021.
Nationwide Building Society must refund this overpayment to Mr C and Miss H, with 8% 
simple interest from the date of their overpayments to the date that it makes the refund. 
HM Revenue and Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building Society must give Mr C and Miss H a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Nationwide Building Society must also pay £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman