DRN-1727201
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-handled her loan application. She  
states she was informed a loan application had been successful only to then find it had been 
declined. She wants compensation.
What happened
Mrs G tells us she made an online application for a loan which she required to finance some 
home improvements and consolidate other debts. She say the application was approved but 
that NatWest asked her to provide some documentary evidence. After she'd provided this 
Mrs G states that NatWest gave her conflicting information. And that after advising her that 
the loan would be credited to her bank account it then declined her application. Mrs G 
explains that as she wasn't granted the loan she's had to enter a debt management plan with 
other creditors which she says will take many more years to repay.
NatWest told us that Mrs G's online application had been provisionally accepted but subject 
to further information being provided.  It said that when it had checked her bank statements 
her monthly salary was less than that which had been stated in the application. And it had 
informed Mrs G that she'd need to reapply with accurate information. It said it accepted that 
some confusion had been caused by some incorrect details being provided to Mrs G. And in 
recognition of this it had credited Mrs G's account with £50. And it said that when it had 
offered her the chance to reapply she'd declined.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that he thought  
NatWest was entitled to decline the application as it had been unable to verify that the 
information she'd provided regarding her salary was correct.
Mrs G wasn't satisfied with this outcome. She said NatWest had left her worse off by 
confirming the loan had been approved and then declining it. As it's not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs G feels strongly about the way NatWest dealt with her application. And 
she feels that it's actions has led to her being unable to clear her debts as quickly as she 
hoped. I understand that this would be a matter of concern and disappointment to her. And I 
appreciate that debt can be a particular worry the longer it's likely to take to clear.
Briefly summarised, Mrs G complains that NatWest had told her that her loan application 
had been approved. And that the money would be transferred to her bank account. On the 
basis of this assurance Mrs G made arrangements to pay off other debts and arrange for 
some home improvements. But when the money failed to arrive in her account, and she learned that NatWest had declined her loan, it left her unable to proceed as she had 
planned.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I've listened to several phone recordings of conversations that Mrs G had with NatWest's call 
handlers. I accept that the overall impact was to suggest to Mrs G that her application was 
successful and that all that remained was for the money loaned to be transferred to her 
account. So I can accept that she reasonably thought this is what would happen. But this is 
only part of the overall picture and I'm required to determine this complaint on the basis of 
all the circumstances.
There's a requirement that lenders make checks to ensure that prospective borrowers can 
afford to repay a loan sustainably. In order to do this it's essential that information which is 
provided by the borrower is accurate. Here Mrs G's online application indicated her net 
income was £1,550 per month. But when NatWest came to review her bank statements this 
proved not be accurate and those statements showed her actual income to be significantly 
less. When Mrs G provided our investigator with updated information regarding her salary 
the figure proved to be more than £300 per month below that stated in her application. It's 
hardly surprising that NatWest's underwriters wouldn't approve the loan when this came to 
light.
It's unfortunate that Mrs G should have been given misleading information regarding the 
acceptance of her application. But I disagree with her contention that it was NatWest which 
was responsible for her being unable to satisfy her other creditors and so result in her being 
obliged to enter a debt management plan. It was up to her to provide correct details about 
her income. Had she done so it's probable the provisional loan offer wouldn't have been 
made. I'm bound to say that I think it was the incorrect information supplied which has been 
the root cause of the subsequent problems that she experienced. 
In summary, I accept that NatWest made errors in the information it provided to Mrs G about 
the progress of her loan application. It acknowledged this error and paid £50 to Mrs G which 
I think is fair and reasonable. 
But I agree with our investigator that NatWest hasn't acted unfairly in declining the loan. It 
was required to carry out adequate and proportionate checks. And despite the inaccuracies 
contained in her original application it did offer Mrs G the chance to reapply. I find this was 
fair and reasonable. Accordingly, I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Stephen RossOmbudsman