DRN-3798172
The complaint
X is complaining about delays in transferring his stocks and shares Individual Savings 
Account (ISA). He says this is the fault of Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL).
What happened
X wanted to transfer his ISA from another firm (Company A) to HSDL. He requested the 
transfer in early June 2021. After 45 days the transfer hadnt been completed. X phoned 
HSDL to try to understand what was going on but wasnt able to get a clear answer  so he 
raised a formal complaint.
HSDL replied to the complaint in late July, saying that the delays were due to Company A. 
They said theyd done nothing wrong. 
In late August, the majority of the transfer had been completed but some units still hadnt 
moved over. X phoned HSDL again to chase this up. The transfer was eventually completed 
in mid-September, over 100 days after X asked for it.
X brought his complaint to our service. Hes unhappy that the transfer took so long and 
noted that government guidance says it should have been completed within 30 days. He 
said the matter has caused him stress and inconvenience and said hed had no access to 
his funds for the whole time the transfer was in progress.
Our investigator looked into things and said he thought HSDL should have done more to 
chase Company A. And he thought HSDL should have updated X on the delays. Our 
investigator said he thought HSDL should pay £100 compensation to X. HSDL disputed our 
investigators view. They said theyd experienced significant delays from Company A during 
that time and were regularly chasing Company As senior management to try to reduce 
waiting times for customers. They added that theres no requirement in regulation or 
guidance for them to chase information. HSDL asked for an ombudsmans decision  so the 
complaint came to me.
I sent a provisional decision on 3 November 2022. I said I wasnt inclined to uphold Xs 
complaint. In summary I said:
HSDLs website at the time displayed several warnings that ISA transfers were taking 
longer than usual  saying that there were delays of around 12 weeks. And the 
website warned that there might be a period during the transfer process when 
investments might not be accessible. I thought X should have been aware that his 
transfer would take a while.
HSDL started the transfer process promptly after receiving Xs request. And things 
seem to have progressed smoothly until the point that HSDL told Company A of their 
acceptance of the transfer. After that there were significant delays, but these seem to 
have been caused by Company A.
Correspondence shows that HSDL were chasing Company A at senior management 
level to get all the oldest transfers moving. 
I appreciate X was told by Company A in early July that HSDL was holding up the 
transfer  but Ive seen no evidence that this was the case. It doesnt look like HSDL 
took any further actions in relation to Xs transfer after that date and yet the transfer 
did eventually go through  again suggesting that the delays were on Company As 
side. 
Because the delays seemed to have been caused by Company A, HSDL were 
chasing Company A, and HSDL had warned its customers that transfers were being 
delayed by around 12 weeks I didnt think HSDL had done anything wrong in respect 
of Xs transfer.
HSDL accepted my provisional decision but X did not. He pointed out that the transfer had 
taken over 14 weeks  more than the 12 weeks HSDL had warned of. And he reiterated that 
he didnt think HSDL had done enough to chase Company A. He said hed had to actively 
intervene to progress the transfer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im aware itll be disappointing for X Im not upholding his complaint. Ive 
considered Xs comments on my provisional decision and I still dont think HSDL have acted 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
As X noted, the transfer took just over 14 weeks to complete. This was a little longer than the 
timescale published on the website, but still within the range of around 12 weeks.  I dont 
think the additional two weeks would be enough to cause undue stress or inconvenience.
I appreciate X has said he had to actively intervene to progress the transfer. Ive listened to 
the call recordings and looked at the timelines and I cant see that the calls he made had any 
impact on HSDLs actions or on the progress of the transfer. X is correct that there was a 
long period between HSDLs acceptance of the transfer and the funds being released by 
Company A but its clear that this was at a time when HSDL were experiencing significant 
issues with Company A and trying to resolve these at a higher level. So Im satisfied HSDL 
was taking appropriate actions and that Xs transfer completed broadly within the advertised 
timescale.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Xs complaint about Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman