DRN-3866823
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited handled a 
claim she made on her motor warranty.
Reference to Red Sands includes its agents. 
What happened
Mrs B holds a motor warranty underwritten by Red Sands. When her car developed a fault, 
she made a claim on this warranty.
Mrs B complains about how this claim was handled. She says she was told the only thing 
shed need to pay was the difference in labour rates, but in reality, she had to pay for 
diagnostic charges too. She says if she knew this, she wouldnt have had the repair carried 
out. She says she should have been provided a hire car and wasnt. And says she was told 
the claim was settled while the complaint was still ongoing which caused her distress.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. he thought Red Sands had done enough to 
make it clear that diagnostics werent covered. He didnt think a hire car needed to be 
provided for this claim either. He thought the email sent would have caused some degree of 
distress but didnt think Red Sands needed to compensate for this.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will disappoint Mrs B.
Mrs Bs policy with Red Sands doesnt cover diagnostic costs. This is noted within 
the policy document and made clear in the IPID. By not paying these costs Red 
Sands are acting in line with the policy.
Mrs Bs policy says shes entitled to a hire car at a cost of £30 per day for up to 
seven days. But the policy says Red Sands wont pay for the first 24 hours she is 
without the vehicle or during any delay the repairer may have waiting for parts or 
commencing repairs. Because the actual repair took less than 24 hours, Mrs B isnt 
entitled to a hire car for this repair. I understand she was without the car for more 
than 24 hours, but this was while the repairer was waiting for authorisation before 
commencing repairs.
I understand Mrs B is unhappy because she was never told these costs wouldnt be 
covered. But she was also never told they would be covered. I agree the voicemail 
message she was left could have made this clearer, but dont think it went as far as 
misleading her either. Ultimately Red Sands did contribute toward diagnostics too. I 
understand Mrs B has said she wouldnt have authorised the repair had she known 
this. Well never know for sure what would have happened, but I find it unlikely she 
wouldnt have authorised the repair. Her car had developed a fault which she clearly 
wanted fixing, at the point she was left the voicemail the fault had been diagnosed 
and was ready to be fixed pending approval of the claim, and Red Sands were 
contributing to the vast majority of the repair costs. So, I find it likely shed have gone 
ahead with the repair had that voicemail been clearer.
The email Mrs B was sent saying the claim was resolved while her complaint was still 
ongoing did cause distress, but I dont think Red Sands need compensate for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman