DRN-4035854
The complaint
Mr W complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited (FCIML) provided him 
with incorrect information over the phone in relation to how much premium hed need to pay 
for his motor insurance policy when he changed his car.
What happened
On 5 December 2022 Mr W contacted FCIML to let it know hed recently purchased a new 
car and he wanted to get a quote to change the vehicle on his motor insurance policy. 
During the call the representative said that Mr W could pay the difference in premium upfront 
and his instalments would remain the same. The option of paying an increased monthly 
amount (without an upfront payment) was also discussed, as was the costs involved to 
cancel the policy.
Then on 6 December 2022, Mr W called FCIML to make the changes to the policy. He was 
told it would cost £700.08 upfront, or he could split the payment into monthly instalments 
however this would incur interest charges. During the call, Mr W confirmed that he would 
prefer to pay the amount upfront. Mr W checked that by paying the upfront cost that that 
would insure him for the year, and it was confirmed to him that it would insure him until 9 
November 2023.
Mr W called FCIML again on 7 December 2022 to check that the payment had gone through. 
He also checked that he didnt have to pay anything else, and he was told that the cover 
would take him up until November the following year and he didnt have to pay anything else.
Later, Mr W noticed a direct debit payment coming out of his account for the cost of the 
premium. Mr W says he wasnt expecting to still pay a monthly premium because FCIML had 
confirmed hed paid for the year upfront. 
Mr W says that if hed have been given the correct information about how much hed need to 
pay to change the car, then he would have cancelled the policy and got cover elsewhere. 
To put things right, Mr W would like FCIML to honour the premium that was explained to him 
on the phone. 
FCIML responded to Mr Ws complaint and agreed the information hed been given over the 
phone wasnt clear and said it could understand why Mr W thought he didnt have to pay 
anything else. Because of this, it offered £125 to say sorry. However, it explained that the 
premium had been calculated correctly.
Unhappy with FCIMLs response, Mr W complained to this service. An Investigator 
considered Mr Ws concerns but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The 
Investigator agreed that Mr W wasnt given the correct information during the phone call. But 
he didnt think that Mr W would have done anything differently even if he had been given the 
correct information. So they thought the £125 FCIML had already agreed to pay was 
enough. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said that when he called on 5 December 2022 to get a quote, this was 
when he was looking at buying the car, so once he got the quote, he bought the car. The 
following day he was told it would cost £700 upfront or monthly payments of £187. He 
explained he chose the £700 because he thought that was all he needed to pay  and it was 
confirmed to him in a separate call that he had nothing more to pay.
Because Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything on file, I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate 
this decision will come as a disappointment to him, however, I will explain my reasons for 
this below.
It isnt in dispute that Mr W was given unclear and incorrect information in two phone calls. 
So, its now left for me to decide if FCIML has done enough to put things right for Mr W, and 
I think it has.
When Mr W spoke to FCIML on 5 December 2022 to get a quote, he confirmed hed already 
purchased the car. And he was told he could make an upfront payment and the monthly 
premium would remain the same. Or he could pay (around) £179 a month with no upfront 
payment. Cancellation costs were also discussed during the call. So, it appears Mr W was 
given the correct information about the costs involved in changing the car on his policy 
during this call. And he knew how much he would need to pay to cancel the policy.
The following day Mr W called to make the changes to the cover. At the point Mr W called 
FCIML, he had in my view, decided that he was going to continue with his cover (instead of 
cancelling it) because he had been told the previous day about the upfront costs and 
continuing the same monthly premium or the option of increased monthly premium, or the 
option of cancelling. And when he called the following day, he asked for another quote and 
went ahead and purchased the policy. I accept that during this call Mr W wasnt told that hed 
still need to pay the monthly premium, but I think he had been made aware of this the 
previous day. And when he called, I think hed already made the decision not to cancel the 
policy. So, Im not persuaded that better information about the monthly premium being 
continued would have changed Mr Ws decision to take the cover. 
I have noted that Mr W was told the following day that he didnt have anything else to pay  
which wasnt right. But at this point Mr W had already made the changes to the policy. So 
what hes lost out on here is the expectation that he didnt need to pay more. To which I 
agree distress and inconvenience is appropriate. But I think the £125 FCIML has already 
offered is enough. This is because I havent seen enough evidence that persuades me Mr W 
would have cancelled the cover had he been given clearer or correct information. And I think 
the £125 is in line with this services normal approach to loss expectation and the impact of 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman