DRN-3845412
The complaint
Ms L has complained to The Prudential Assurance Company Limited about the sale of her 
Teachers Pension Scheme Additional Voluntary Contribution (TAVC) plan. 
What happened
Ms L took out a TAVC plan in 1991. Unfortunately, Prudential no longer holds any 
documentation from the time of this sale but its been determined that at the time Ms L was 
working as a teacher and she was a member of the TPS.  In the 1991 tax year Ms L 
contributed a total of £448 to the TAVC. 
Ms L met with the adviser from Prudential again in 1998 to discuss savings for her childs 
further education and her retirement planning. The paperwork completed at the time of the 
sale confirmed that Ms L was divorced with a dependent child. She was working as a Head 
Teacher, earning just under £29,000. Shed been a member of the TPS since 1983. And 
although she had a normal retirement age of 60, she would like to retire earlier if possible. 
On a scale of 1 to 4, Ms Ls risk profile was recorded as 2. The adviser recommend that Ms 
L start a 12 years savings plan, making a monthly contribution of £50. And Ms L was advised 
to restart contributions to the TAVC with monthly contributions of £94 for 23 years.  Ms L 
accepted the recommendations and premiums to the TAVC plan were restarted. 
In May 2021, Ms L complained to Prudential about the sale of her plan in 1998. In summary 
she complained that she was not told during the sale that shed have to buy an annuity with 
the TAVC fund or that if she took it as a lump sum she would be taxed. 
Prudential reviewed the complaint. In its final response letter, it explained that Ms L had 
started the plan initially in 1991 but it had been unable to find any documentation from that 
time. But it provided a copy of a blank application form that would have been in used at that 
time. This application form confirmed the benefits were not guaranteed. It also explained that 
Ms L would have been provided with a member's booklet which explained how the TAVC 
worked and that the fund had to be used to provide a pension in retirement.  In terms of the 
sale in 1998, Prudential explained that the paperwork shows that Ms L was provided with 
advice to increase her contributions to her TAVC. And the Key Feature document explained  
how the TAVC worked. Prudential went on to explain that in 1991 and 1998, there was no 
option to take any of the TAVC fund as part tax free cash. However, since then it has 
become allowable to take 25% of the fund as a tax free lump sum. 
Ms L didnt accept Prudentials findings so she referred her complaint to our service for 
consideration. In her complaint form she provided further details regarding her complaint. In 
summary she said: 
 
She only became aware of the need to buy an annuity or to pay a lot of tax on full 
withdrawal when this was explicitly stated in her annual documentation which started 
arriving in 2017. At no time was she advised that shed have to buy an annuity and 
that the income would be reliant on the stock market at the time of withdrawal from 
the scheme. 
Its clear she had a very low attitude to risk as a single parent at that point and would 
never have taken a risk of this sort. All that was discussed was pension to be added 
to her Teachers pension and there was no explanation of how this would work at 
retirement or projections of the amount of extra pension. Theres no paperwork to 
show anything was fully and properly explained and her options under her employers 
scheme were also not included. She bought added years from her new employers 
scheme in 2006 to 2009 to add to her pension as she could no longer contribute to 
her TAVC having left teaching in 2001.
She would have been better off putting the money in an ISA and taking that when 
she retired and so she would like Prudential to pay her what she would have now if 
shed invested in an ISA from 1991 to 2001, instead of the TAVC. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but he didnt think Prudential had done 
anything wrong. In his view the investigator explained that:
As previously set out, theres very little information from when the policy was sold to you in 
1991. But we do know that when Pru sold the policy to you, it did so as an advised sale, so it 
had to recommend products that were suitable for you.
However, as part of its role, Prudential wasnt allowed to provide advice on alternative 
products that it didnt offer. Instead, it could only give you the basic details and it wouldve 
been for you to find out more about the alternatives such as added years or a Free Standing 
AVC (FSAVC).
There isnt much information here to say what information you were given or whether you 
were told about the alternative options. But, even if Prudential hadnt fulfilled its sales 
requirements, I dont think it wouldve made a difference in this case.
I say this because when considering the alternatives, an FSAVC was likely to be more 
expensive than an AVC at the time. And, added years were generally considered expensive 
and limited in how much you could purchase. But in any event, youve said that had you 
been given better advice, you wouldve taken out an ISA rather than the AVC so Ive 
considered this aspect further.
I think its important to explain the differences between an AVC and ISA. The AVC is a 
means of saving for retirement through your employer as part of your Occupational Pension 
Scheme. In your case, your employer uses Prudential to run the AVC. AVC contributions 
usually receive tax relief when they are paid. And when taking the benefits of the AVC, 
generally 25% is tax free with the remainder providing a taxable income. The tax on AVCs  
or the any annuity you may choose to purchase with your AVC pot - works in much the same 
way that it does on a final salary pension.
ISAs are a form of general savings account, rather than pension savings account so the 
contributions dont attract tax relief in the same way that the AVC contributions do. But any interest earned on these contributions is paid tax free. However, ISAs werent available until 
1999 and the equivalent cash predecessor, a Tax-Exempt Special Savings Accounts 
(TESSA) only benefitted from favourable tax treatment for five years. TESSAs werent 
generally considered as products that an individual would use to save for retirement - 
because they didnt benefit from the tax relief that pension products did  so I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected the Prudential adviser to have mentioned a TESSA in a meeting 
about saving for retirement.
As such, I dont think the complaint should be upheld as I havent seen enough to say that 
Prudential did make an error. And given youve said that you wouldve taken out an ISA 
rather than an AVC, Im not persuaded that you wouldve acted any differently even if 
Prudential didnt fulfil its sales requirements in full.
Ms L didnt accept the investigators findings. She explained that when she returned to the 
SPPA scheme she transferred in via the Pensions Club, the pension earned from 2001-
2005. She also made arrangements to buy added years as this was financially much better 
than having other bits of pension like AVCs, and would not require her to take out an 
annuity. She wasnt told about options other than the TAVC by Prudential, and added years 
were never mentioned as an option. She subsequently bought added years from SPPA and 
she is aware that the failure to mention Added Years has been a factor in upholding some 
complaints so she believes her complaint should be upheld. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its very likely that when Ms L joined the TPS she wouldve been provided with a 
scheme booklet either by her employer or the scheme administrators. And I think its likely 
that this booklet explained the various options she had for paying extra contributions to 
increase her pension provision  including the option of buying added years. So I think, on 
balance, Ms L had most likely been provided with information regarding the added years 
option before she met with the Prudential adviser in 1991. But given that Ms L joined the 
TPS in 1983, several years before starting the TAVC, I can appreciate that she may not 
recall receiving a booklet. It is of course possible that Ms L wasnt aware of added years 
before she met with Prudential. And because there is no paperwork available now from 1991 
and only limited papers from 1998, I cant say with certainty that Prudential definitely told her 
about this alternative option for increasing her retirement benefits. 
The Prudential representative was only authorised to provide advice on Prudential products; 
they couldnt have advised Ms L on the added years option. So they wouldnt have been 
able to say added years would have been of benefit to her. All the representative had to do 
was make Ms L aware that added years were an alternative option and refer her to the TPS 
for further information. With only very limited information, I cant be satisfied that it did this. 
So Ive thought about whether Ms L wouldve most likely opted for added years, rather than 
the TAVC policy, if shed known about them. But for the reasons set out below, I dont think I 
can say that she wouldve chosen added years in 1991 or 1998.
The cost of added years of service in the TPS was determined by the Government Actuary 
using conservative assumptions of likely future investment experience. This made them 
more expensive than if a less conservative (or more optimistic) set of assumptions had been 
used. The aim was to make sure, as far as possible, that the cost of added years would be 
met by the members. The intention was that this would mean there would be no shortfall that would have to be picked up by the employer. So I think its very likely that at the time it 
wouldve been shown that the projected benefits from the TAVC would be greater than the 
benefits provided by purchasing six years of added service. However, I do accept that 
Prudential has been unable to provide copies of illustrations that may have been issued so 
its difficult to say this with certainty. However, there are other factors that I think would have 
influenced Ms Ls decision over whether or not to buy added years.
 
Firstly, Ive thought about Ms Ls attitude to risk. She says she was a very low risk investor. 
And I can see that the sales paperwork from 1998 recorded her as 2 on a scale of 1 to 4. 
Just above where 2 has been entered on the form there are descriptions for each category. 
For categories 1 and 2, the description said: 
1 Capital Security  in saving or investing to achieve my financial objective over a 
pre-determined period of time, I want my capital growth to be guaranteed. However, I 
understand that this may mean that I will not achieve any real capital growth on the 
amount invested because of inflation.
2  Very Cautious. In saving or investing to achieve my financial objective over a 
pre-determined period of time, I want the potential of some real capital growth. I 
understand that to have this potential I need to take a small risk with the capital I 
invest. 
Added years would generally have been considered suitable for someone that was risk 
adverse and whilst I accept that Ms L was a low risk investor, the paperwork doesnt suggest 
she was risk adverse. Ms Ls TAVC was invested in Prudentials with-profits fund which was 
generally considered lower risk. So I dont think the TAVC plan was unsuitable for Ms L in 
terms of risk at the time it was sold. 
The cost to Ms L of purchasing added years was not intentionally subsidised by the 
employer (unlike the main pension scheme, which was non-contributory). And it is mainly 
with hindsight that it can be seen that choosing to purchase added years in the 1990s would 
have resulted in a much better pension now than a money purchase scheme. The added 
years arrangement wasnt flexible insomuch as once you had agreed to purchase added 
years, you were committed to this and the cost would increase with any salary rises. It 
wasnt possible to stop and start contributions like it was with the TAVC. Looking at what 
information is available, I dont think Ms L would have wanted to commit to paying into an 
ongoing arrangement in 1991. I say this because she only made contributions to her TAVC 
for one year at this point so it seems she may have appreciated the flexibility the TAVC 
provided over the added years arrangement. And had she taken added years in 1991 
instead, she would have received a refund of her contributions if shed only paid into the 
arrangement for a year. 
Ive also thought about what happened in 1998, when Ms L restarted contributions to the 
TAVC. Part of the charge for added years went towards providing benefit for a spouses 
pension. However, the paperwork records that Ms L was divorced at this time. So, when 
viewed in the investment climate of 1998, a potentially more cost-effective option, albeit 
involving some risk, was for Ms L to contribute towards a scheme which provided a pension 
for her only, which the TAVC did. Whilst it is disappointing that the benefits from the TAVC 
may be lower than the benefits that the added years wouldve provided, this could not have 
been foreseen at the time of advice in 1991 or 1998. Im satisfied that the advice to take the 
TAVC wouldve been reasonable, based on the expectation the TAVC arrangement would 
leave Ms L with greater benefits than the added years approach. 
Ms L says that at no time was she advised that shed have to buy an annuity and that the 
income would be reliant on the stock market at the time of withdrawal from the scheme. However, I can see that the letter sent to her in 1998 confirmed that the adviser had gone 
through the policy terms and conditions and a leaflet was provided explaining how the AVC 
worked, in particular this explained that:
The With Profits Fund This is a popular home for AVC contributions. This fund 
invests in a broad spread of assets. The mix of the portfolio is weighted towards 
company shares and property with the objective of maximising growth potential. 
Investment returns are distributed by way of bonuses, which are normally declared 
annually. This includes a reversionary bonus that we add to your account once a 
year, and we may also add a terminal bonus when the benefits are drawn. The bonus 
system is designed to smooth out the ups and downs of investment Performance. 
The value of the current tax privileges of our contracts will vary according to the 
financial circumstances of the investor. Past performance is not necessarily a guide 
to the future. The rate of future bonuses in the With Profits Fund and therefore the 
rate of growth cannot be guaranteed.
And 
When you retire, you may use the value of your AVC account to buy a range of 
retirement benefits.  You can use it  to:
- supplement your pension from the Teachers' Pension Scheme;
- supplement your own, and your dependant's pensions, following your death after 
retirement;
- provide ongoing increases to your own, and your dependant's AVC pension.
These can be bought from Prudential or, alternatively, you may take your AVC 
account to a provider of your choice to buy benefits. This is known as an Open 
Market Option.
The leaflet also explained that any income would be taxed as earnings. This is the same as 
any income that would be payable from added years. 
Ms L has also said that she wasnt told she would have to pay tax if she took the fund as a 
lump sum. This option has only been available since 2015, when major changes to pensions 
legislation were introduced. So the adviser wouldnt have been able to let Ms L know this 
when the plan was taken out. And, after any tax free cash is taken, generally 25% of the 
fund, any remaining lump sum is taxed as earned income.  This isnt unique to the TAVC, 
most pension pots provide tax free cash with 75% of the fund being treated as a taxable 
income. 
I know Ms L believes she would have been better off taking an ISA. But as our investigator 
explained, this is a different type of product and wouldnt generally be used as a vehicle to 
provide retirement benefits. This is because unlike the TAVC, contributions to an ISA 
wouldnt have attracted tax relief when they were paid. In the case of Ms Ls TAVC, the tax 
relief essentially meant that she didnt pay tax on any payments to her plan. Whereas with 
an ISA, the payments would have been made after tax was paid and no tax relief would have 
been received. So overall Ms L would have contributed more to her TAVC than another type 
of plan that didnt provide tax relief.  For this reason, I dont think it would have been 
appropriate for the adviser to have recommended an ISA for Ms L as a way to top up her 
retirement income and crucially, ISAs werent available when the TAVC was sold. 
I appreciate that Ms L may have gone on to buy added years through the next pension 
scheme she subsequently joined. But I have to consider what I think she would have done at 
the time of advice. And for the reasons explained, although I cant be certain that Prudential 
made Ms L aware that added years were an option for her to consider, on balance I dont 
think she would have chosen to buy them at that time. Overall, I dont consider Prudential 
needs to do any further and I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman