DRN-3032593
The complaint
Mr A complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc declined his credit card 
account application without providing a reason.
What happened
Mr A says he applied for a Marks & Spencer credit card account in around April 2021. He 
says he has a good credit rating, but his application was refused. Mr A would like to know 
why the application was rejected and questions if he has been discriminated against due to 
his good credit rating and as he repays his credit card debt on time.
M&S says it considered the application and rejected it. It says its entitled to do so and hasnt 
acted unfairly.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought M&S was entitled to consider a credit card account application in line with its lending 
policy and that policy was likely to commercially sensitive. The investigator didnt think there 
any evidence of discrimination or unfairness.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and would like to know what the rejection reason was. He 
questions how that can be commercially sensitive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that its up to M&S when exercising its commercial judgement to decide with 
whom it has a business relationship. And those are not matters I can fairly interfere in. I 
appreciate Mr As frustration in these circumstances, but I have not seen any evidence of 
unfairness or discrimination. Im also satisfied that M&S fairly reviewed the application.
I appreciate Mr A would like to know the exact reason for the rejection of his application. But 
I dont think M&S is obliged to provide such information or is obliged to reveal its lending 
policy as that is likely to be commercially sensitive.
Overall, I accept Mr A will have unanswered questions about his application, but I find M&S 
was entitled to reject the application and not provide further information about the reasons 
for that rejection.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman