DRN-2840331
The complaint
Miss M complains about Allay Claims Ltd and the settlement fee they are charging her 
following a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss M instructed Allay to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI with lender B. 
Allay submitted a data subject access request (DSAR) and lender B confirmed Miss M had 
PPI on her account. Allay notified Miss M of this and asked her to complete and return a PPI 
questionnaire. Allay sent this to lender B after it had been received, and Miss Ms claim was 
auto-converted, meaning lender B were now investigating it fully.
In December 2019, lender B updated Miss M on the status of her claim, explaining they 
needed more time to provide an answer. But in January 2020, Miss M received a letter from 
lender B saying the claim has missed the PPI deadline and they couldnt continue with the 
claim any further. But this letter was sent with a different reference number to the first letter 
Miss M received. Miss M compiled evidence to show lender B shed made a claim in time 
and made Allay aware of the issue.
Around the same time, lender B wrote to Allay requesting a new letter of authority (LOA) for 
Miss M. So, Allay asked Miss M for a new LOA and they provided this in February.  A short 
time after lender B acknowledged receipt of the new LOA.
Allay chased lender B for an update in June. And lender B responded explaining the claim 
was still in progress. And in July, the claim was upheld, and Miss M was provided a PPI 
refund. Allay then invoiced Miss M for their settlement fee. But Miss M was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss M complained about the amount Allay were charging. She thought shed had to deal 
directly with lender B when they contacted her to say the claim was out of time. So, she 
didnt think Allay had handled her claim effectively and didnt think it was reasonable to 
expect her to pay the full fee. Miss M offered to pay a third of the fee Allay were asking for to 
acknowledge the work shed needed to complete herself.
Allay didnt agree. They didnt think lender B had ever made them aware they thought the 
claim was out of time. Allay thought theyd submitted the claim in time and had responded to 
lender Bs requests in a timely manner. So, they thought they were fair to invoice Miss M for 
their settlement fee, in line with the terms of the agreement. And because of this, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Miss M remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the letter 
lender B had sent Miss M, which did say a complaint had been made out of time. But she 
explained Allay had submitted the claim in time and she thought theyd progressed the claim 
as effectively as they could. She also saw lender B had acknowledged the new LOA and 
didnt make reference to the claim being out of time. So, didnt think Allay shouldve done 
any more at that point. So, she thought the claim had been successful following the work 
Allay had been completed and because of this, she thought Allay had acted fairly when 
charging their settlement fee. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Miss M didnt agree. She maintained her view that the fee should be reduced as shed had to 
deal with lender B directly. She thought if it was lender B whod provided her with incorrect 
information, then Allay should look to recoup the majority of their fee from lender B directly 
and that she should only pay a proportion of it. As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss M. Ive no doubt when 
she authorised Allay to pursue a claim on her behalf, Miss M assumed they would handle 
any issues with lender B directly. So, when she had to deal with lender B after they 
suggested the claim was out of time, I can understand why shed question the work Allay 
have completed and ultimately, the settlement fee they are now charging. But for me to say 
Allay should reduce their fee, Id need to be satisfied that without the work Miss M 
completed, its likely the claim wouldnt have been successful. Or, that Allay did something 
wrong that led to Miss M needing to complete work on the claim. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Ive seen the letter lender B sent to Miss M, which stated the claim was out of time. But, 
crucially, Ive seen the work Allay completed before this letter was sent. They submitted a 
DSAR to lender B on 1 August 2019, which was before the PPI deadline. And any claim that 
was received by a lender in this way before the PPI deadline date was classed as in time by 
the rules set by the regulator. So, I cant say that Allay failed to submit the claim. 
Ive seen they converted Miss Ms claim once they received her LOA signed on 26 August. 
And Ive seen they submitted a completed PPI questionnaire within a reasonable amount of 
time. Ive also seen they submitted a new LOA at lender Bs request in February 2020, 
before chasing lender B for an update on the claim in June. And in July, I can see the claim 
was upheld and lender Bs offer letter containing the PPI award was sent to both Miss M and 
Allay.
Because of this, I think Allay have completed all the work Id expect to see. I think they 
submitted the claim that led to the successful PPI refund and because of this, I think Allay 
have acted fairly when invoicing Miss M for their settlement fee. I think its important to note 
that Miss M instructed Allay on a no win no fee agreement. This means that the settlement 
fee Allay charge isnt representative of the amount of work they complete. Its instead based 
on a percentage of the refund the customer received, assuming the claim is successful 
based on the submission Allay made. And in this situation, I think it was.
And Im unable to speculate as to why lender B contacted Miss M in January 2020. And I 
can appreciate the worry this wouldve caused Miss M and why it led to her compiling 
documents to show lender B the claim had been submitted. But I dont think this letter was 
sent because of anything Allay did wrong. And Ive seen no evidence to show me lender B ever made Allay aware they thought the claim was out of time. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably say the claim wouldnt have been successful without Miss Ms input.
Im aware Miss M did make Allay aware of the contact she received from lender B. And Ive 
seen Allay made a note of this on their system. But at the same time, lender B had also 
requested a new LOA from Allay. And Allay sent this to lender B. As lender B accepted this 
LOA, and confirmed their investigation was continuing, I think it was reasonable to assume 
that any issues lender B had with the submission of the claim had been resolved. So, I 
wouldnt have expected them to do anything more. I can appreciate Miss M thinks because 
of this, she had to do so, but I cant fairly say thats the case. Allay were made aware the 
LOA had been accepted and I think it was reasonable for them to assume the claim was 
progressing correctly at this point. So, I cant say Allay have done anything wrong.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss M was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt 
compensate Miss M for the time and effort it took her to deal with lender B directly. But I 
hope it goes some way to explaining that this wasnt a result of anything Allay did wrong 
when progressing her case. As Allay submitted the claim that was successful, I think Allay 
have acted fairly and reasonably when asking Miss M to pay their settlement fee for this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman