DRN-2497390
The complaint
Mr V complains that he was unable sell some of the loan parts in his crowdfunding account 
with Funding Circle Ltd.
What happened
Mr V opened a classic account with Funding Circle in October 2017 and an innovative 
finance investment savings (IFSA) account in February 2018. Funding Circle is a loan-based 
crowdfunding platform which allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in 
return for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a 
borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At 
the time of Mr Vs complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This 
provided a way for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other 
investors by way of a secondary market. But this was subject to the loan parts meeting 
certain requirements, such as there not being a late payment or a default on the loans.
Mr V requested to sell around £20,000 of his investments in April 2019. Although Mr V was 
unhappy that it took until the 19 June 2019 for the sale to complete, he was mainly 
dissatisfied that he only received just over £14,000 from the sale. Funding Circle explained 
that this was because some of the loan parts he put up for sale were removed from the sales 
queue before the sale was completed. Mr V complained to Funding Circle as he didnt 
understand why this happened.
Funding Circle explained that there were some restrictions on selling loan parts. It said that
loan parts could not be sold when they were in a processing status  where a borrower is
within the direct debit cycle (for the purposes of making their regular interest payments) and
the direct debit has not yet been received by Funding Circle in order for it to be distributed to
lenders.
Funding Circle explained that at the point Mr Vs loans sold, its auto-sale tool operated by 
selecting the loan parts to sell at the point the request was actioned from the customers 
side. It suggested that Mr V may have seen that the status on his loan parts changed to for 
sale following this request and explained that the loan parts selected would have been a 
random selection based on what would get him as close as possible to the monetary value 
he requested. However, some of Mr Vs loan parts had entered into a processing
status, which caused them to be removed from the sales queue (between the time he
requested the sale and before they could be successfully sold to other investors). 
Funding Circle acknowledged that this wasnt the best way for the auto-sale tool to operate 
and in response to feedback, it had since improved the auto-sale tool to give investors the 
best chance to sell their requested amount. It explained that the tool would now select which 
loan parts are to be sold when investors get to the top of the queue, instead of at the time 
they requested to sell. This means that as long as a loan part is live when it is time to sell, it 
can be sold on to other investors, even if its status has changed to processing during its time 
in the sales queue.
Funding Circle apologised for any disappointment it may have caused, but explained Mr
V would be able to re-list any unsold loan parts after the repayments were successfully 
received. Whilst Funding Circle was confident that it made investors aware of the selling 
restrictions on the platform, it did acknowledge that the information about the possibility for 
loan parts to be removed from the sales queue mid-sale could have been made clearer to Mr 
V. And so it offered £50 in recognition for any inconvenience caused.
Mr V didnt accept Funding Circles response as he felt it hadnt answered why over quarter 
of his loans had gone into a processing status. He thought it was highly unlikely that such a 
high proportion of his loan parts had become unsuitable for selling during his initial sale 
request, only to have become cleared for selling again when he put his unsold parts back on 
the secondary market. He also considered the change to the auto-tool to be a detrimental 
change in Funding Circle's terms and conditions to which he didnt agree to.
Funding Circle explained loans can go into a processing status when it has been
unsuccessful in taking payments from borrowers the first time around. It said it looks
to take the payment from the borrower before the payment date, and where there is a delay
in receiving this, the loan will go into a processing status until Funding Circle re-requests the
payment and its successfully received. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint. At first they didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. In short, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions explained there was no guarantee he would be 
able to sell his loans and that it depended upon there being sufficient demand from 
other investors. 
Funding Circles terms and conditions also explained there was no guarantee on the 
length of time this process may take.
Funding Circles terms and conditions made it clear when a loan wouldnt be eligible 
for sale.
It wouldnt be fair for Funding Circle to allow loans in such positions to be sold to 
other investors as they could find themselves having purchased bad debts.
She acknowledged that it would have been inconvenient having the loans removed 
from the sales queue and having to put them back up for sale again. But thought it 
was fair for Funding Circle to remove any loan parts which didnt meet the eligibility 
requirements.
Funding Circle had since made changes to its auto-sale tool based on feedback from 
investors.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator. He said the fact Funding Circle had since changed 
how its auto-sale tool operates, suggests it acknowledges it did something wrong.
Our investigator requested further information from Funding Circle. Having provided 
payment schedules for five of the loans which were removed from the sales queue, our 
investigator changed her opinion on the matter. In summary, she said: 
She was initially of the opinion that Funding Circle was entitled to de-list some of Mr 
Vs loan parts from the sales queue as the borrowers payments werent up to date.
However, the payments schedules provided suggest the borrowers had made their 
repayments on time, but these werent processed by Funding Circle before the 
scheduled date for payment to investors.
As such she felt Mr Vs loan parts shouldnt have been removed.
Funding Circle didnt agree initially but after further discussions it put forward an offer of 
£150 for the trouble and upset caused. Our investigator agreed that this was a fair offer, but Mr V didnt accept it. Mr V said a fair resolution would be to release all his investments with 
Funding Circle and to return his funds, plus compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
In reaching my decision on the complaint, Ive taken into account industry good practice and 
any applicable guidance or rules from the FCA. These include the Principles for Business 
(PRIN). Most relevant are:
2.1 A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; and
2.7 A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive also considered the obligations set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Most relevant are:
2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client; and
4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading.
Funding Circle provided an opportunity for investors to sell their loan parts to other investors
by way of the auto-sale tool on the platform. Although Mr V could use the auto-sale tool to
request his loans parts to be sold, Funding Circles terms and conditions set out some
limitations to this. Most relevant is that loans which are late or in default are unable to be 
sold. Its important to explain that although Funding Circle later changed the way in which its 
auto-sale tool operated - selecting loan parts when investors get to the top of the queue, 
instead of at the time they have requested to sell  there was no change in the terms and 
conditions as Mr V has suggested. And so the restriction on selling loans with late payments 
or in default remained, despite the change to the auto-sale tool. 
Funding Circles terms and conditions also explain it cant guarantee that all the loan
parts will sell, nor how long it may take for a sale to complete, as this is reliant upon there
being a demand by other investors  something which I agree is out of Funding Circles
control.
So whilst Mr V has expressed dissatisfaction with the amount of time it took for his sale 
request to be completed, the crux of the complaint, and in my view the main issue which I 
need to decide, is whether it was fair and reasonable for Funding Circle to remove some of 
his loan parts from the sales queue.
Funding Circle initially explained that it removed Mr Vs loan parts from the sales queue as
they had gone into a processing status. This was due to borrowers not making their 
repayments on time. However, having seen the examples of repayment schedules Funding 
Circle has provided, I dont agree that the borrowers didnt repay on time. The example payment schedules show the dates interest repayments were meant to be 
repaid to investors for the loans removed from the sales queue. These were scheduled for 
either the 7th or 8th of each month. Funding Circle says it uses an external direct debit 
provider to collect the repayments and provided our service with screenshots of when the 
repayments were debited from borrowers and received by Funding Circle in May 2019. From 
these its clear that Funding Circle received the borrowers repayments prior to the 
scheduled date for repayment to investors. Borrowers repayments debited on 2 May 2019 
were received by Funding Circle on 3 May 2019. But as there was a Bank Holiday on 6 May 
2019, borrowers repayments debited on 3 May 2019 werent received by Funding Circle 
until 7 May 2019. Even though there was a slight delay caused but the Bank Holiday, all 
borrowers repayments for the loans removed from the sales queue were received by 
Funding Circle prior to their respective dates for repayment to investors. 
Funding Circle says that since the repayments for these loans werent distributed to 
investors until a day after the scheduled repayment date, the loans changed to a processing 
status and were removed from the sale request. Whilst I accept this is the case, its clear the 
borrowers werent late on their repayments and the loans werent in default. Therefore, I 
dont think the loan parts were removed in line with Funding Circles terms and conditions.
Funding Circle offered a service where Mr V could sell his loan parts if other investors on the 
platform were willing to buy them. Whilst Funding Circle cant control demand, it ought fairly 
to process requests in a systematic and fair way. In Mr Vs case, he asked to sell some of 
his loan parts and there was no fundamental reason why he should not have been able to. I 
agree that restricting loans from being sold which have late repayments on them or are in 
default is an important way of protecting investors looking to buy loan parts on the secondary 
market. However, Mr Vs loan parts didnt present a different level of risk to prospective 
investors. Instead, they had the appearance of having something wrong with them, but this 
was purely down to the status Funding Circle applied to them. And this wasnt a fair 
reflection of the actual status of the loan parts because the repayments had in fact been 
received from the borrowers. So Im satisfied Mr V has been disadvantaged for no 
reasonable reason.
Considering all of the above, I think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. As such, I
consider Funding Circle ought to fairly compensate him.
Putting things right
When looking to put things right, I must consider that even if Funding Circle hadnt removed
Mr Vs loan parts from the sales queue, it wasnt guaranteed that all his loan parts would
have sold. This is because the sale of loan parts is dependent on there being other investors
who want to take ownership of these. Im conscious that Mr Vs loans had already been up
for sale for around a month and had not sold before being removed from the sales queue.
So given the length of time theyd been up for sale, I cant say on the balance of probabilities
when or even if the loan parts would have sold. As such, it isnt possible to attribute a
financial loss to Mr V as a result of Funding Circles decision to remove the loan parts from
the sales queue.
However, Ive also considered what impact Funding Circles actions had on Mr V. And
having done so, its clear Mr V has suffered some trouble and upset here. I think it was
fair for Mr V to ask for a clear explanation as to why his loan parts were removed. However, 
Funding Circle wasnt able to provide him with the detail he was hoping for which I 
understand would have caused him further frustration. I also appreciate that Mr V had to go
through the inconvenience of having to put the loan parts back up for sale again which he
wouldnt have needed to do had the borrowers payments been processed on time, but for
Funding Circles delay. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Funding Circles error caused Mr V trouble and 
upset for which I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable compensation. 
I appreciate that Mr V will be disappointed with this outcome as I understand he wants to 
release all his investments with Funding Circle, in addition to compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. Ive considered this carefully, but Im afraid I dont agree. Funding Circle 
made it clear the only way he could release his investments before the loans matured was 
by way of the auto-sale tool.  And although Funding Circle unnecessarily removed his loan 
parts from the sales queue, he was able to utilise the auto-sale tool prior to them being 
removed and was able to put them back up for sale again shortly afterwards.  Ultimately, he 
wasnt provided with mis-leading information when he initially chose to invest. And so it 
follows that he shouldnt be able to release investments prior to the loans maturing without 
utilising the auto-sale tool.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint against 
Funding Circle Ltd.
Funding Circle Ltd should pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman