DRN-3084855
The complaint
Mr C complains that 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money irresponsibly granted 
him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
247Money. Mr C was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £215.21. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £12,912.60.
Mr C says that 247Money didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 247Money didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included carrying out a credit check and gathering 
information about Mr Cs income and expenditure. It says it received a copy of Mr Cs payslip 
and a recent bank statement to verify his income and assess his account management. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought 247Money didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr C didnt agree and said that this credit was received after other credit had been provided 
and that his complaints about the previous credit being unaffordable had been upheld. He 
said 247Money didnt properly verify his outgoings and had it done so it would have realised 
he couldnt afford the payments due under the hire purchase agreement. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
247Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think 247Money gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr C about his ability to repay. I say this because it asked Mr C about 
his income and verified this through a recent payslip and bank statement. It also carried out 
a credit check. This showed defaults and Mr C was asked about these and it was confirmed 
they were historic, and Mr C was paying £100 a month towards these through a payment 
plan. Mr C had another outstanding loan on which he had missed a payment. He was asked 
about this and he explained the reason for the missed payment and that he would be making 
the required payment the following month. I find the questions addressed the issues that 
were highlighted on the credit check in a reasonable way and I do not find the other 
information contained in the credit check meant further verification was required. Mr Cs 
bank statement didnt suggest there were other outstanding credit commitments. 
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence 247Money gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr C. I say this because Mr C explained his monthly net income varied but was 
around £1,800 (the payslip provided showed a higher amount). He explained his housing 
costs were taken from his salary at source and that other living costs were shared with his 
wife. His payments towards his other credit commitments were included in the assessment 
and because of the missed loan payment, a double payment was included for this. I note 
Mr Cs comments about his gambling but as I find proportionate checks took place and these 
didnt show this I accept that 247Money wouldnt have been aware of this issue. Taking 
Mr Cs expenses into account (including the double payment on the loan) the monthly 
repayment amounts of £215 appeared affordable. For these reasons, I dont think 247Money 
acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
I note Mr Cs comments about his complaints about irresponsible lending from other parties 
being upheld. Each case is treated on its individual merits and my decision is based on the 
evidence I have seen regarding this specific complaint. So, while Mr C may have had other 
complaints upheld, in this case I find the checks carried out were proportionate and as these 
suggested the hire purchase agreement payments were affordable I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman