DRN-3162796
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to repair a leak appropriately, and this 
caused damage to his property. 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much detail 
about them. 
In June 2021 Mr H called Aviva to make a claim on his home emergency cover as he had 
discovered a leak in his property. Aviva sent out an engineer who attended his property and 
repaired a ball valve which the engineer thought was causing the leak. 
Later the same day Mr H contacted Aviva again as the leak was still present. Aviva sent an 
engineer again, but he wasnt able to find any issues. The following day the leak got worse 
and caused significant damage to Mr Hs property. Mr H wasnt happy so complained that 
the leak hadnt been fixed. 
Aviva sent out another engineer who thought the leak was coming from the water tank itself 
and said that it needed to be replaced. The parts were ordered, and an engineer was 
provisionally booked in to come back a few days later to complete the repair. 
When a different engineer came, he didnt have the replacement tank and said his notes 
didnt specify that he was attending to repair the tank. A further engineer finally attended 
about a week later and installed the tank which fixed the issue with the leak in Mr Hs 
property. 
Aviva investigated Mr Hs complaint about the handling of the claim and upheld it. Aviva 
apologised for the delay and poor service. They also offered to reimburse Mr H for the costs 
he incurred as a result of the damage caused by the leak to his property and offered him 
£250 compensation for the poor service. 
Mr H remained unhappy and felt Aviva should pay £500 in compensation, so referred the 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it as 
she felt the compensation offered by Aviva was fair. Mr H didnt agree and still felt Aviva 
should pay more compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. So he 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
The facts in this complaint arent in dispute. Aviva accepts the service provided during the 
claim wasnt up to standard and that the engineer could have diagnosed the fault sooner. 
But because he didnt this caused unnecessary damage to Mr Hs property.
Looking at Avivas offer, I think that the offer to reimburse the costs Mr H incurred as a result 
of the damage to his property is reasonable because the damage was caused as a 
consequence of the leak not being diagnosed sooner. Mr H provided Aviva the invoices for 
the repairs carried out to his property and belongings. From the information provided these 
invoices were paid by Aviva. 
Aviva also offered £250 in compensation. Mr H feels this doesnt adequately represent his 
upset and the inconvenience caused. But awards for distress and inconvenience from this 
service are generally modest. It isnt the role of this service to punish businesses. I think the 
amount offered is fair and is in line with amounts awarded by this service for similar cases. 
So looking at the evidence I think the overall compensation offered by Aviva to Mr H of £250 
and a reimbursement of the costs to cover the damage caused is fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything further.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman