DRN-4175548
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him after he was the victim of 
a scam.
What happened
What Mr W says
Mr W says that he met a girl Ill refer to in this decision as L on a dating site and had a 
relationship with her for around five months. During this period, he met L and her friends on 
a few occasions. Mr W says he was aware that L had a deeply personal issue going on at 
the time. 
In around February/March 2022 Mr W was added to a social media group that mentioned 
what L was going through and asked for financial support. The messages tied in with what 
he knew about L and matched how L and her friends spoke, so Mr W thought it was 
legitimate. He started to make payments to people he thought were friends of Ls, to pay for 
counselling. He made some bank transfers, payments to an online payment platform Ill refer 
to in this decision as P, and bought gift cards that he thought could be exchanged for 
counselling. The social media messages asked Mr W not to discuss what was going on with 
L. 
After a few months Mr Ws bank spoke to him about the payments and involved the police. 
He says Lloyds fraud team and the police thought the situation could be genuine but also 
that Mr W may be falling victim to a scam. He contacted L and she said it might be a scam 
but didnt deny she was having a difficult time. 
As time went on, the messages Mr W thought he was receiving from Ls friends became 
more threatening and he was told if he didnt continue to make payments, he wouldnt get his 
savings back. Mr W realised he was the victim of a scam in around January 2023 when he 
established that gift cards he had bought werent in Ls name or the names of her friends. He 
contacted Lloyds on 23 January 2023 to report what had happened. 
Between the end of February 2022 and January 2023 Mr W made card payments totalling 
around £30,000 to multiple different accounts with P. 
What Lloyds say
Lloyds didnt agree to refund the card transactions saying there was no bank error. It said it 
had been clear about its concerns and had gone as far as calling the police. Lloyds also said 
that as the payments were made through Ps friends and family option it had no chargeback 
option. 
Mr W says Lloyds should have noticed unusual payments leaving his account and has asked 
that Lloyds refund all the card transactions to accounts with P. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that in March 2022 Lloyds called Mr W into branch because they were concerned a payment 
he was making may be related to a scam. After speaking to Mr W, Lloyds had sufficient 
concern to call the police. But after this, Mr W made multiple card payments to different 
accounts with P. These card payments were spread out and the investigator didnt think 
Lloyds should have noted any unusual activity. In any event, even if Lloyds had intervened 
when Mr W made the card payments, the investigator felt that Mr W would have tried to 
persuade Lloyds the payments were genuine as he had done in March 2022, so the scam 
wouldnt have been stopped. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings. I have summarised his main points below:
- The police and Action Fraud say hes the innocent victim of fraud and he 
understands this means he should be refunded in full. 
- Lloyds called the police because of irregular activity and not because it thought he 
was the victim of fraud. 
- The bank and police said it was 50/50 whether he was being scammed in 2022. Mr 
W had spoken to L for around a month before he met her. He had also met L and her 
friends over a four to five month period, which was unusual in scam cases. And L 
had a big online presence. 
- Mr W questions why Lloyds authorised an overdraft and granted him a loan after the 
meeting with the police if they thought he was a victim of fraud. This either 
demonstrates Lloyds werent convinced it was a scam or failed in its duty of care in 
allowing the overdraft and loan. 
- There is protection in place in respect of the card payments he made.
- He accepts that his judgement might have been affected if Lloyds had intervened 
when subsequent payments were made because he was emotionally invested in L 
and believed he was in a serious relationship with her. But Lloyds didnt attempt to 
make contact with him. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
doesnt apply to card payments like the ones Mr W made. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring 
accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, including 
anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud 
and scams.
Have had systems in place 
to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its 
customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, 
irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, or made 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
In this case, before he made the payments to accounts at P Im considering in this 
complaint, Mr W made three faster payments totalling £1,700 on 9 March 2022 to a new 
account. These transactions were later refunded when Mr W raised a fraud claim so dont 
form part of this complaint. They are relevant though because at the time Mr W made these 
transactions Mr W was asked to go into branch because Lloyds had suspicions that Mr W 
was being socially engineered. Lloyds discussed the payments with Mr W, and he explained 
that a friend he had known for two years was going through counselling and he was happy to 
help financially. Branch staff thought Mr W was being scammed and invoked the Banking 
Protocol. 
The Banking Protocol is a joint initiative between financial institutions and the police. It 
centres around trying to protect customers from losing money to fraud, particularly in relation 
to in-branch withdrawals or transfers. The Banking Protocol says that:
If a customer is identified as making an unusual or out of character cash withdrawal or fund 
transfer request
1. The colleague will discreetly question the customer about their withdrawal and the 
reason for making it. 
2. If the colleague is concerned that the customer may be a victim of fraud, they will 
notify a senior member of staff and, where possible, take the customer to a quiet 
area or private room to ask further questions. 
3. If the colleague believes the customer is the victim of fraud then they should call 
the police immediately on 999 quoting Banking Protocol.
So, its clear that invoking the Banking Protocol and calling the police is a step that is only 
taken when branch staff believe a customer is the victim of fraud. Ive read Lloyds notes 
from the time and am satisfied that after discussing what was going on with Mr W both 
Lloyds and the police thought that he was the victim of a scam, and that Mr W was given 
scam education in the form of leaflets. Lloyds records note the outcome of the police referral 
as scam prevented which suggests Lloyds believed Mr W had understood the position and 
wouldnt make further payments. Overall, having carefully considered all the evidence 
gathered at the time Im not satisfied it supports Mr Ws recollection that he was told it was 
50/50 whether he was the victim of a scam in March 2022. 
The majority of the card payments to P I am considering in this decision were made after the 
Banking Protocol was invoked. The investigator asked Mr W what he did after this interaction 
to satisfy himself that the requests for payment he was receiving were legitimate. Mr W said 
that he contacted L who said it could be a scam, but didnt say it definitely was a scam. 
Lloyds records from its scam report in respect of the faster payments that have been 
refunded say that after he had spoken to the police Mr W tried to verify with L that she was 
receiving the service he was paying for but didnt get a response. The scammers then 
persuaded him to make further payments. Either way, Im not persuaded Mr W heeded the 
advice he was given when the Banking Protocol was invoked or took appropriate steps 
before sending more money via an alternative method. 
The transactions to P were made over a period of nearly a year and were relatively low in 
value, although I recognise the total amount Mr W lost is large. The highest value transaction 
was for £1,300. There were also payments to multiple different accounts. On balance, Im not persuaded Lloyds should have had enough concern about these transactions to take any 
additional steps.
Even if I thought Lloyds should have asked Mr W some questions about the reason for the 
payments to P, Im not persuaded it could have prevented further loss. Shortly before, Lloyds 
had made Mr W aware of its concerns and gone as far as asking the police to talk to Mr W. 
After this significant interaction Mr W didnt take steps to satisfy himself that what he was 
being told was true and was induced to make further payments. I also note Mr W has 
accepted that his judgement might have been affected if Lloyds had intervened again as he 
was emotionally invested.
I also have concerns about exactly what was going on and what the payments to accounts at 
P were for. Mr W hasnt been able to provide the messages he exchanged with L, but he has 
provided messages to and from Psychic spiritualist in which she asked Mr W if he wanted 
to file a dispute and went on to say, Or you want the savings to be transferred into your 
bank. Ive seen another message about refunding Mr Ws savings. Mr W has also referred 
to being told he wouldnt get his savings back if he didnt pay more money. This makes me 
question whether Mr W believed that the card payments to P related to counselling for L. Im 
not making a finding on this point though; my decision is based on the fact I consider Lloyds 
acted reasonably in following Mr Ws payment requests and the fact that in any event I dont 
consider intervention would have made a difference. 
Ill turn now to the points raised by Mr W in response to the investigators view. He has 
questioned why he was allowed to increase his overdraft limit and get a £10,000 loan in 
December 2022 if Lloyds had concerns about his use of his account in March 2022. I have 
asked Lloyds about this, and it has explained that Mr W applied to increase his overdraft limit 
online and his requests were automatically accepted by its systems as there were no 
concerns about affordability at the time. Similarly, Mr Ws loan in December 2022 for 
miscellaneous purposes was automatically approved after taking into account various 
confidential factors. I consider Lloyds acted reasonably here. 
Mr W has asked about the possibility of recovering his funds. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1975 only applies to credit card payments in certain scenarios. The transactions I 
am considering here are debit card payments though, so Ive not considered S75 any 
further. And there are no chargeback rights in respect of the payments Mr W made. 
Overall, I consider Lloyds acted reasonably so Im not asking it to reimburse Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman