DRN-4233367
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limiteds referral of him to an 
Accident Management Company (AMC) after he was involved in a car accident. 
Any reference to Mulsanne in this decision includes the actions of Mr Gs broker where the 
broker is acting as Mulsannes agent. 
What happened
Mr G held comprehensive motor insurance with Mulsanne. After he was involved in an 
accident, Mr G called Mulsanne to make a claim. Mr G said he tried to call again the next 
day but had trouble getting through. He received calls from a company, that I will refer to as 
R, saying they were dealing with the claim. Mr G emailed Mulsanne to ask if he should 
speak with R. Mulsanne replied to say that R were acting on its behalf. 
R is a first notification of loss provider for Mulsanne. After taking details of the accident, R 
referred Mr G to an AMC that I will refer to as P to arrange repairs. 
Mr G became concerned about delays in getting his car repaired and called Mulsanne for an 
update. Mulsanne said that P was an AMC who was dealing with Mr Gs claim outside of his 
car insurance policy. Mulsanne said Mr G had signed a separate agreement with P and so it 
had closed the claim on his policy. 
Mr G complained to Mulsanne. He was unhappy with delays in his car being repaired and 
said he expected Mulsanne to help him with his claim as his insurer. 
Mulsanne said that the delays were due to the third party insurer accepting liability. 
However, if Mr G wanted to revert to claiming on his policy he could do. 
Unhappy with Mulsannes response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. He told us 
about the delays hed experienced and that he thought P was acting on Mulsannes behalf. 
He said Mulsanne sent him letters to say his insurance would run out if he didnt MOT his 
car. However, he couldnt MOT it because it was still awaiting repair. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought 
Mulsanne had not provided clear information when referring Mr G to P and asked Mulsanne 
to pay Mr G £250 to compensate for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr G accepted our Investigators view but Mulsanne didnt. It said Mr G had signed 
agreements with P so their terms and conditions must have been acceptable to him and it 
was clear what he was agreeing to. It said Mr G did not choose to revert to claiming on his 
policy when given the option because he did not want to pay his excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mulsanne, or R on its behalf, referred Mr G to P it was obliged to provide him with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 
7 of the FCA Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and 
ICOBS 2.2.2R (Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this 
means that when Mr G contacted Mulsanne to claim it ought to have provided him with clear 
information about his options, so he could decide how best to proceed with getting his car 
repaired.
Ive started by considering the information that Mulsanne provided to Mr G. I have seen a 
message from Mulsanne to Mr G which said that R is acting on our behalf. So, I think this 
reasonably indicated to Mr G that the calls from R were on behalf of Mulsanne. 
Ive listened to calls between R and Mr G. The order of the calls is unclear but I do not think 
that makes a difference to my decision and have referred to them as first, second and third 
calls for ease of reference. 
During the first call R asked, are you looking to claim through your own policy. Mr G initially 
said yes but then sounded unsure and said he wasnt sure how it worked. R then asked if  
Mr G was looking to claim through the third partys insurer and Mr G said that he was. R 
told Mr G that someone would be in touch to explain the next steps. 
In an internal email, R accepted that it made an error in this call and did not discuss what it 
calls non-fault services. 
In a second call R read out a script to Mr G. The relevant part of the script said:
It is important that you fully understand that if your claim is accepted any services 
provided to you will be funded using our credit facilities. Whilst you are ultimately 
responsible for these charges please know that our role is to review your claim first 
and ensure that we are confident that we can recover these costs from the third 
party insurer. If we do not feel confident recovering the costs we will explain why 
and suggest that you do not use our services. However, if you provide us with any 
misleading information or have attempted any type of activity which prejudices the 
claim preventing recovery of the costs then these would be charged to you. Is that 
ok? 
In a third call, R told Mr G it was going to deal with the claim on his behalf and would 
provide him with a hire vehicle.
It is unclear whether R was acting as Mulsannes agent in the second and third calls. The 
content of the second call indicates to me that during this call R was no longer acting as 
Mulsannes agent and was instead acting as Ps agent. If that is the case, I have not been 
provided with anything from Mulsanne to persuade me that Mr G should have been aware 
that R might not only act on behalf of Mulsanne and I think it would have appeared to him 
that R continued to act as Mulsannes agent as it had already told him R was acting on its 
behalf. 
From the calls I have been provided with, I do not think that Mulsanne provided Mr G with 
clear, fair and not misleading information in a balanced way to enable him to choose which 
option he would like to use. Mr G initially indicated that he wanted to claim on his policy and I 
do not think Mulsanne made it clear what claiming on the third partys insurance meant. I do 
not think Mulsanne made it clear that P was acting as a separate company, or that the claim 
would be dealt with outside of his regulated insurance policy. I do not think that the referral 
set out both the advantages and disadvantages of using an AMC rather than claiming on his 
policy. Neither did it explain that Mr G that he might not be able to complain to Mulsanne or our service if something went wrong. 
I appreciate that Mr G signed an agreement to use Ps services but I do not think the referral 
was clear enough for him to understand the implications of this or that he was agreeing for P 
to recover the costs of the accident outside of his insurance policy. 
As I do not think that Mulsanne, or its agents, provided Mr G with clear, fair and not 
misleading information I have to consider what he would have done if the information had 
been clear as well as the impact of the poor referral on him. Having done so, I am not 
persuaded that Mr G would have used P rather than claiming on his own policy. Mr Gs 
policy provides for a courtesy car while his is being repaired and I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Mr G needed a like-for-like vehicle. 
During the first call Mr G told R that the third party driver had not admitted responsibility, so I 
think that should have given an indication to R that the claim might not be accepted as 
quickly as Mr G might expect. And if Mr G had known this I think he is unlikely to have 
wanted to use P.  
Mulsanne said Mr G did not revert to claiming under his policy as he did not want to pay his 
excess. While Mr G would initially been liable for his excess, this is something he can claim 
back as an uninsured loss. Ive not seen anything to indicate that this was explained to Mr G, 
and so while he might not have wanted to pay his excess, Im not persuaded this means he 
wouldnt have initially chosen to claim on his policy as it was something he could claim back.
While its impossible to know what would have happened if Mr G had been given clear 
information, I have to reach a decision based on what I think is more likely than not. And I 
havent seen anything persuasive to indicate that Mr G would more likely have used P if he 
had been given clear information. 
I understand from Mr G that he got his car back over three months after the accident. While I 
cant hold Mulsanne responsible for Ps actions, I can consider the impact of the poor referral 
on Mr G. 
While making a claim will always lead to a certain amount of distress and inconvenience, in 
this particular case, I believe that the poor referral has caused Mr G additional unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Mr G had to wait longer than he would most likely have needed 
to if his own insurer had dealt with the claim and had the inconvenience of needing to 
contact the parties on a number of occasions to sort things to sort things out. He has also 
had the distress of finding out that his claim wasnt being dealt with by his insurer and being 
told that his policy might lapse whilst not being able to do anything about getting an MOT. I 
think the fair and reasonable outcome for the distress and inconvenience caused is for 
Mulsanne to compensate Mr G for this.
Putting things right
I think that the £250 recommended by our Investigator is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for Mulsanne to pay Mr G to compensate for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to do as set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman