DRN-3061096
The complaint
Mr H complains about the process Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) used for 
converting currency when he bought some shares.
What happened
Mr H placed an order to buy 1,100 shares in an American company. IISL placed this as nine 
separate purchases, reflecting the variations in offer price and volumes available at the time. 
To purchase the American shares, Mr Hs money had to be converted to American dollars. 
IISL added on a percentage fee for that conversion. But the size of the percentage charge 
varied  getting smaller when more money was converted. 
Mr H complained because IISL treated the nine separate purchases as currency conversions 
for nine separate amounts. He felt IISL should have done just one conversion of the full 
amount needed to purchase all 1,100 shares, which would have got him a lower percentage 
fee than he paid for eight of the nine trades. 
IISL have pointed out that their terms and conditions say this sort of splitting of an order may 
be needed, when setting out the cost of currency conversions. As theyd done what their 
terms said, they didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. But they did go on to refund Mr H the added 
cost hed incurred. That meant hed effectively paid what he would have paid, if the currency 
conversion had been done as a single conversion of the full amount paid for the shares.
Our investigator considered this and felt IISL didnt need to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. But Mr H has disagreed, saying more should be done to make IISL 
change their process for other customers. 
Unresolved, the case has come to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that theres nothing further needed from IISL to 
resolve Mr Hs specific complaint. Thats not to say there arent some points they may wish 
to consider further. But it does mean Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
IISLs terms and conditions act as a starting point when deciding whats fair and reasonable 
in a case like this. Its what they said theyd do, so Mr H could have had some expectation 
thats what they would actually do.
As has been noted by both IISL and our investigator, those terms explained that an order to 
buy shares could be split, as it has been here. So in that sense, IISL have simply done what 
theyve always said theyd do. Its that which caused the currency conversion to be done in 
parts, rather than on the share cost as a whole.
I can see why thered sometimes be a need to split an order. IISL purchases shares from 
people offering them for sale. But those sellers offer varying amounts of shares, at varying 
prices. So to get the right number of shares at the best price, IISL may find its better to do a 
few smaller trades, rather than one big one. 
What complicates that is IISLs varying fee for currency conversions. The fee can vary by up 
to 1.25%. If the range of share prices doesnt vary by a similar or greater percentage, then it 
could become more beneficial to fulfil a customers order in a single trade, at a higher price. 
Mr H has spoken about this in terms of the regulatory requirement on IISL to take 
reasonable steps to get the best possible result for a customer when executing their orders. I 
think hes right that IISL should think about whether their systems achieve that. There are 
certainly changes they could make that would remove this problem. Or they could find a way 
to factor it in when fulfilling customer orders. 
But ultimately, Im not going to tell IISL they must run their business a certain way. Thats a 
job for their regulator. My role is to consider Mr Hs specific complaint, and whether IISLs 
actions have been fair and reasonable, given all the circumstances of the case. 
IISL did what they said they would do. They carried out Mr Hs order to buy 1,100 shares. 
Hes been charged the cost of that order accurately, and in line with the fee information IISL 
publish for their service. In addition, IISL have now refunded Mr H the amount he felt hed 
been unfairly charged, and given him a small payment to try and recover some good-will. 
Theres no outstanding loss or detriment for Mr H, as a result of the actions taken by IISL. So 
I find nothing further is needed from them to resolve this complaint. That leads me to 
conclude their actions here  given all the circumstances of this specific case  have been 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman