DRN-2885821
The complaint
The estate of Mr G is unhappy that a previous executor of the estate was able to transfer 
monies from a National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) executor account to their own 
personal account.
What happened
Mr D sadly passed away in June 2012. In July 2012, one of Mr Gs sons opened an account 
with NatWest in his sole name and made some payments into the account from the late Mr 
Gs affairs.
In September 2012, Mr Gs son - referred to above  and Mr Gs daughter were named as 
executors of Mr Gs estate. Shortly afterwards, Mr Gs daughter was added to the account 
that had been previously opened by Mr Gs son.
In 2017, Mr Gs daughter noticed that her brother had made several transfers out of the 
account to his own personal bank account. Mr Gs daughter wasnt happy about this, 
especially as NatWest had allowed this to happen without seeking her permission as a joint 
signatory. So, Mr Gs daughter had her brother removed as an executor of the estate  being 
replaced as executor by another of Mr Gs sons  and, in the name of the estate of Mr G, 
raised a complaint with NatWest.
NatWest looked at this complaint, but they noted that the account hadnt been set up as an 
all sign account and that no request had been made to change the account to an all sign 
account until after the estate had first contacted them about the issues at hand in 2017. 
Because of this, NatWest didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong in allowing the account 
usage that had taken place, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
The estate of Mr G wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so it referred its complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
NatWest had acted unfairly here, given how the account had been set up and maintained, so 
they also didnt uphold this complaint.
The estate of Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
essentially the same reasons.
NatWest have explained that the account in question was initially set up on a single named 
basis and that following the addition of Mr Gs daughter there was no request made to 
NatWest to set the status of the account to an all sign basis. 
Furthermore, NatWest have confirmed that certain features of the account were requested 
by the account signatories that wouldnt have been available on an all sign account.
It also must be noted that, prior to NatWest being contacted by the estate of Mr G in 2017, 
NatWest had no knowledge of any dispute between the siblings of the late Mr G, such as 
was explained to them at that time.
So, while I can appreciate that the estate of Mr G might be seeking to recover the monies 
transferred out of the account by the son of the late Mr G who initially opened the account, I 
cant fairly conclude that NatWest have committed any form of error here such that they 
should be considered accountable for the reimbursement of the monies in question.
I say this because the usage on the account appears to have been legitimate when 
considered from the perspective of NatWest, and I note that when NatWest were later 
informed of a dispute between the then executors of the estate, NatWest took the necessary 
steps to prevent further potentially unauthorised account withdrawals. And this is what this 
service would have expected of NatWest, given the circumstances here.
Importantly, following the daughter of Mr G being added to the account, both account 
signatories had online access to the account and could therefore monitor the activity taking 
place on the account. And while I appreciate that the daughter of the late Mr G has stated 
that she believed that she had no reason to monitor the account, I dont feel that this 
absolves her of her responsibility as an account signatory to have monitored the account. Or 
to have understood the nature of the account as being one that wasnt being administered 
on an all sign basis.
realise that this wont be the outcome that the estate of Mr G were wanting here , but it 
follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take 
any further action at this time.
I hope that the estate of Mr G can understand, given what I have explained above, why I 
have made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman