DRN-3245300
The complaint
Mr E complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his heating 
systems policy.  
What happened
Mr E has a HomeServe heating systems and service policy. The insurance element of that 
policy, which covers repairs to or replacement of leaking radiators, radiator pipes, water 
tanks or cylinders, is underwritten by Aviva.
Mr E made a claim in September 2020 when he discovered a small leak in his hot water 
cylinder.
Aviva accepted the claim and sent an engineer to assess the situation. They arranged for a 
replacement cylinder to be fitted but cancelled the first appointment theyd made - in late 
October 2020.
Their engineer attended and installed a new cylinder around a week later. Mr E had to call 
the engineer out again around a week after that because the cylinder appeared not to be 
functioning properly.
Mr E made a complaint to Aviva about the service hed received  it was almost two months 
after hed made his claim that the new cylinder was working properly. He also complained 
that theyd replaced a 150 litre cylinder with a 100 litre one. He said the new cylinder didnt 
provide sufficient hot water for his property.
Aviva accepted that the service provided had been poor and paid Mr E £100 in 
compensation. But they said the new cylinder had been provided in line with the terms of 
Mr Es policy and they wouldnt replace it with a larger capacity cylinder.
Mr E wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked at it and didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more for Mr E. He thought the £100 
compensation was fair and reasonable given the trouble and upset Mr E had suffered.
Mr E disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
Because I took a different view to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision. This gave 
both Mr E and Aviva a chance to comment on my thinking and/or provide further information 
or evidence before I make my final decision in this case, which will be this services last word 
on the matter.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that the compensation offered to Mr E for his trouble and 
upset was fair and reasonable. There were delays  and they were Avivas fault. But 
Mr E has confirmed that the leak hed discovered was a small one - and that he was 
able to continue to use the cylinder. So, he wasnt deprived of hot water for any 
period of time.
I can see why Mr E was frustrated and annoyed by the delays and by the 
cancellation of the first appointment in particular. But I think £100 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for that degree of trouble and upset.
I disagree with our investigator, however, when it comes to the replacement hot 
water cylinder. Ill explain why.
It appears there s no dispute in this case that Mr E had a 150 litre cylinder prior to 
the replacement. And everyone agrees that this was replaced with a 100 litre 
cylinder.
Aviva have pointed to the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy. Theres a general 
exclusion which says that Aviva will not necessarily provide:
like for like replacement of parts.
They say Mr E had a hot water cylinder before the claim. And he has one now. And 
so, his property has hot water. They say that means theyve fulfilled their obligations 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, given that they explicitly and clearly 
state that they will not provide like for like replacement of parts which need replacing.
I understand that argument. And I can see that its perfectly fair and reasonable - and 
clearly flagged in the policy terms  that Aviva will not necessarily be bound to 
replace parts with exactly the same make or model.
Some parts may be difficult to obtain, overly expensive, difficult to fit or otherwise 
unsuitable. And as long as Aviva can provide the same functionality by using different 
parts, I think thats entirely reasonable.
So, the question I have to address then is whether Aviva have in fact provided the 
same functionality when they replaced Mr Es 150 litre hot water cylinder with a 100 
litre one.
In case theres my suggestion that Im introducing this question without any clear 
justification or reason, Ill quote again the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy. 
Under the section General Conditions and the heading Replacement Parts, this says:
Where we replace parts, these will be HomeServe approved standard 
alternatives. They will provide similar functionality but not necessarily be 
identical, the same make and model or the same type of fitting.
Avivas engineer said that hed tested the cylinder after fitting, and it was fully and 
properly working. I can only assume that he meant that hot water was produced from 
Mr Es taps.I think its a poor argument to say that means Mr E had similar functionality after the 
replacement cylinder was fitted. Before the replacement Mr E had sufficient hot 
water for his needs. Afterward, he tells us - and I have no reason to disbelieve him  
that he does not have sufficient hot water for his needs.
Its my view that if, before the replacement, Mr E had a cylinder which was in effect 
too large  which, in other words, met his needs and more  and afterwards he had a 
smaller one which nonetheless still provided hot water when he reasonably needed 
it, then Aviva could legitimately say that theyd met the terms of the policy.
However, I dont think thats the case. Almost all suppliers of cylinders, the relevant 
industry associations and customer advisory organisations publish guidance which 
suggests three-bedroom properties need hot water cylinders of at least 150 litre 
capacity, if not more. Indeed, almost all of those organisations suggest 120 litres as a 
minimum for a one-bedroom, one-bathroom flat.
Mr E lives in a three-bedroom house. And whilst hot water use varies from household 
to household, Im inclined to take the view  from the expert sources Ive seen  that 
a 100 litre cylinder is very likely insufficient to meet the reasonable needs of anything 
larger than a one-bedroom flat.
The principle underpinning most insurance contracts is that the customer is 
indemnified against any loss. That, in other words, the customer is put back in the 
position they were in before the accident or loss occurred. This is reflected in the 
policy wording quoted above  the customer should be provided with similar 
functionality when parts are repaired or replaced.
To put it as straightforwardly as I can, it appears to me  from the evidence and 
information I currently have  that Mr E had sufficient hot water for his needs before 
he made his claim, but now he does not. He hasnt been indemnified, he hasnt now 
got similar functionality, he hasnt got sufficient hot water.
On that basis, Im minded to instruct Aviva to replace the hot water cylinder they fitted 
at Mr Es property with a cylinder of at least 150 litre capacity, to return Mr E to the 
position he was in before.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr E responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed with my analysis.
Aviva didnt respond. As its now almost a week since the deadline for responses to my 
provisional decision passed, Im satisfied that Aviva have nothing more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at all the information we have on file and Ive thought carefully again about 
whether the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision were justified. Unsurprisingly 
perhaps, I havent changed my mind and Im going to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Im satisfied that Aviva didnt meet their obligations under the terms and conditions of the 
policy when they replaced Mr Es 150 litre cylinder with a 100 litre one. Putting things right
In order to put Mr E back in the position he was in before he had to make his claim, Aviva 
need to now replace the 100 litre cylinder with a 150 litre (or larger) cylinder. To be clear, 
they must do this as soon as practically possible.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must, as soon as is practically possible, replace the current hot 
water cylinder at Mr Es home with a cylinder of at least 150 litre capacity. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman