DRN-2323074
The complaint
 Mr F isnt happy about the quality of the repairs completed to his car after an accident and 
the customer service provided whilst insured with One Insurance Limited, via their 
intermediary One Call. 
What happened
 Mr F was in a car accident in September 2019, which he reported to his insurer in order to 
make a claim. His car was taken for repair at one of the insurers approved repairers, and 
returned to Mr F after being reported to be fixed. Mr F said that this was not the case, after 
he tried to charge the (electric) vehicle and found the charging port had been installed 
upside down and so wouldnt accept a charge. He also reported other issues with the badge 
and trim clips. Mr F told One Call about this, who arranged for the car to be sent to a 
specialist repairer to rectify the faulty repair. 
When the car was returned to Mr F for a second time, he noticed the trim was incorrectly 
fitted/still damaged, and the car was returned for repairs for a third time. When the vehicle 
was delivered back to Mr F, he says he checked the repaired trim and it was still faulty  it 
came away in his hand. One Call say that the delivery driver saw Mr F tamper with the trim 
and intentionally broke it. 
Mr F says he was caused further inconvenience when driving on the motorway, and he tried 
to use the second charging port, which is intended to provide a faster top up charge from 
the charging stations on motorway services. Half way through a long journey, he stopped to 
rapid charge the car for the first time since the repairs, and found the rapid charge port had 
also not been repaired to standard, and wasnt working. This resulted in him being stranded 
miles away from home and needing an emergency hire car to complete his journey. It is my 
understanding that the cost of all hire cars needed, including this one, have been paid by 
One Call, or paid by Mr F and reimbursed by One Call. 
Since his car was returned to him for a third time, Mr F has reported a range of problems 
with either the standard of the repairs and/or repairs not been identified as needed and so 
not done. Those issues include uneven tyre wear and tear, the air conditioning no longer 
blowing cold, passenger footwell trim not fitting correctly, incorrectly fitted driveshaft, leak to 
the windscreen, difficulty closing passenger door and various body alignment issues. Some 
of these issues were identified by Mr F himself, but he also arranged for the car to be 
inspected at the dealership, who are independent of this claim/its repairs. The dealership 
then gave Mr F a list of the repairs needed. 
One Call say that these issues are unrelated to the accident. But, they have not arranged for 
the car to be inspected by an independent assessor. Mr F says that these issues have all 
only occurred since the date of the accident. He also says he has owned three of this make 
and model of car in the past, and this is the first time he has experienced issues of this type 
with any of them. Mr F says that he has lost confidence in the standard of the repairs carried 
out and asks for One Call to pay him the value of the car prior to the accident in settlement 
of his claim and by way of compensation. One Call disagree, and say that the repairs are 
now complete and Mr Fs claim is settled. 
One Call agreed that the first two repairs werent completed to standard and offered Mr F 
£150 compensation for this. But they didnt uphold his complaint about the trim and maintain 
that he damaged this himself. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint. The investigators view was that the car should be 
inspected by an independent assessor, at the expense of One Call. Any outstanding repairs 
needed should then be completed by a repairer of Mr Fs choosing. The investigator also 
said that One Call should reimburse Mr F for all repairs hes had completed at his own 
expense, along with the interest on these payments, and a total of £250 compensation  
including the £150 they offered. One Call disagreed with this view and so the case has been 
passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Call have agreed with Mr F that the original repairs werent completed to an acceptable 
standard, so I wont add any further rationale here to show why I agree with all parties. So, I 
then have to consider if One Call have acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the 
remaining concerns Mr F has with the car. 
I can see that One Call have a statement from the person from the garage who returned the 
car to Mr F and say that he broke the trim himself when it had just been repaired. In 
situations like this, when the only statements available are from the two people present, and 
both have an interest in the outcome, I dont think either of those statements can be given 
any greater weight than the other. So, I have to look at what is most likely, on a balance of 
probabilities. A car is designed to be a robust vehicle, which cant generally be easily broken 
by a person without the use of tools. I find it difficult to think of a circumstance in which a 
person could break the properly-repaired trim on a car through an act of inspecting the 
repair. And, that is what I believe Mr F was doing: inspecting the repair. On a balance of 
probabilities, I find it difficult to believe that Mr F was intentionally setting out to break his 
own car. I cant see the benefit to him in doing so, and I find it highly unlikely. So, if the trim 
was to have broken during an inspection of the repair, I think its therefore likely that the 
repair hadnt been completed to standard and was the fault of the repairer.
Mr F has also reported a range of faults with the car which have persisted since the date of 
the accident or noticed since that date. Without the vehicle having been inspected by 
someone who is independent of Mr F and One Call, it is hard to say whether or not these 
issues are linked to the accident or the repeated attempts to repair it. But, there are 
indicators to suggest they are. For example, on the original inspection report from the 
approved repairer, the tyre condition was recorded to be excellent. But, Mr F has found 
since that date that the tyres are now wearing unevenly, to the point where they require 
replacement. This is a significant change, and points to the wheel alignment issues, as an 
example, being the result of the accident. Also, since there have been no further accidents 
since this one, I find it hard to believe that bodywork alignment issues arent related to this 
accident. So, I do find it more likely than not that many of the issues Mr F is experiencing 
with his car are linked to this accident. 
I appreciate that Mr F has lost faith in the repairs completed to date, and would like One Call 
to give him the value of the car prior to the accident, effectively buying the car from him. In all of the circumstances, I dont think this would be a proportionate response, and there are 
other solutions to make sure Mr Fs car is repaired to a good standard. 
I agree with the view of our investigator that the car should be sent for an independent 
inspection by an independent assessor. This assessor should be from outside of One Call 
and should not be an assessor they have an existing contractual relationship with. That 
assessors report should be made available to Mr F within 14 days of its completion. Upon 
supplying the report, Mr F should inform One Call of the repairer that he has selected. One 
Call then should pay that repairer to complete the repairs that the independent assessor 
finds could be linked to the accident. For clarity, I find that if the assessor says that some 
issues could have been caused by previous repairs not being completed to standard, or 
through any other action or inaction of the previous repairers, then these should be included 
within the repairs One Call should pay for.
 
I also find that One Call should reimburse Mr F for the new tyre he paid for shortly after the 
accident due to the uneven wear, along with 8% interest on that payment. Should Mr F 
locate evidence of the payments made for the other two tyres which required replacement, 
One Call should also reimburse those payments, along with interest in the same manner. 
I also agree that a total of £250 compensation should be paid to Mr F by One Call for the 
trouble and upset caused to him during the course of this insurance claim. This has 
extended for over a year and caused him significant disruption.
  
Putting things right
I instruct One Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr F £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him in this case, 
less any payments already made for this.
Arrange for an independent inspection of Mr Fs car in line with my instructions in my 
decision above. 
Pay a repairer of Mr Fs choosing to complete those repairs which are found to be 
potentially linked to the accident or to the substandard/inadequate/incomplete repairs 
undertaken in response to that accident. 
Reimburse Mr F £100 for the tyre he has replaced at his own expense due to the 
uneven wear as a result of the alignment issues, along with the other 2 tyres should 
he locate the evidence of these payments.
Pay interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it was paid by 
Mr F to the date that One Insurance Limited makes the payment.
If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint against One Insurance Limited. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 Deborah Hall
Ombudsman