DRN-1795416
The complaint
Mrs S complains that when Post Office Management Services Limited (POMSL) sold her a 
policy it made a significant error in the cover the policy provided. And that when she called to 
get this error rectified, POMSL didnt do enough to assist her.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of 
this final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint and I include an extract from my 
decision here:
Mrs S was due to travel abroad with her husband on 7 May. On 26 April she called POMSL 
to take out a single trip policy. Shed never used POMSL before, and shed picked up a 
leaflet from her local Post Office. The agent sold her a Superior policy and advised that she 
would have the terms and conditions via email within 24 hours. 
Mrs S called POMSL on 30 April and again on 1 May. Shed been having problems 
accessing the policy terms and conditions. Shed enlisted the help of her daughter, who told 
her that the policy excess was incorrect on the policy documentation. Shed been told that 
the excess would be £100. The policy terms and conditions said excess was £150. Mrs S 
wasnt happy and wanted this changed. POMSL apologised and opened a complaint for her. 
On 6 May, the day before she was due to leave on the trip POMSL wrote to Mrs S. POMSL 
didnt uphold her complaint and said that there were two excesses on the policy, £100 and 
£150. It apologised that this hadnt been made clear and for any inconvenience caused. 
But Mrs S remained unhappy so she complained to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. She said that Mrs S was aware of what the maximum excess on 
the policy was and that we arent able to consider events that may happen. But Mrs S 
disagreed and shes asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I plan to uphold this 
complaint.
Ive listened to the sales call from 26 April. Mrs Ss husband has a number of pre-existing 
medical conditions, so most of the call is spent making sure these conditions are recorded 
correctly. Mrs S is well prepared, and I felt the call was quite thorough. The agent sets out 
the options available and he gives Mrs S the mid-range option, the Superior policy. He 
explains to Mrs S that the Classic policy has similar cover, but the excesses are different. 
He says the excess on the Classic policy is £200 but that its £100 on the Superior cover. 
He explains this twice to Mrs S, and shes happy with this.
The problems start when Mrs S cant access the policy documentation. She wants to make 
sure all her husbands pre-medical conditions have been recorded correctly, as shes aware of how important this is if she ever needed to claim. Unfortunately, she cant seem to access 
the policy, so she has to get her daughter who lives some distance away to print it out for 
her. And its at this point that she discovers that the excess is £150 and not £100. So, she 
calls POMSL on 30 April. We dont seem to have a copy of this call, but it would seem that 
Mrs S raised the excess issue, and POMSL made a change to her policy and refunded 
approximately £6.
Mrs S called again on 1 May. Shes confused as to whats happened. She still cant access 
the policy documentation, and she cant understand why the excess is £150, and not £100 
as shed been advised. 
But instead of trying to assist Mrs S the agent told her that his manager would speak to the 
agent who sold her the policy, and that he would set up a complaint for her. But this isnt 
what Mrs S wanted. She wanted a policy with the excess she was promised when the policy 
was sold. She wanted her issue resolved. But the agent just proceeded to run through some 
questions with her, and then asked her if he could close the complaint.
Mrs S was completely bemused at this stage. She said that she didnt want to close the 
complaint, as the agent hadnt actually resolved her issue, and when she asked when this 
would be sorted, she was told a few weeks, maybe a month. POMSL then issued a final 
response to Mrs Ss complaint a number of days later. It said that there were two excesses 
on the policy and apologised that this wasnt clearer and left it at that.
When we got the complaint, we said something similar. We felt that yes, an error had been 
made but we didnt think it had affected Mrs S. So we didnt uphold the complaint. And I 
agree, we cant award compensation for what might have happened.
But I think weve all missed the point here. Listening to Mrs S in that first call its quite clear 
that shes quite meticulous and she has to be because of the number of pre-existing medical 
conditions that need to be declared. Shes insistent that she wants to see the policy 
documentation as soon as possible and shes told shed have it within 24 hours. When she 
couldnt access the policy terms, she began to get uneasy, and I can tell by her voice that 
this has caused her some distress. But I appreciate that it may not be POMSLs fault that the 
policy cant be accessed.
But there was clearly an error made about the excess, and I dont think this has been taken 
seriously. Mrs S chose the Superior product because she was particularly concerned about 
her husbands pre-existing medical conditions. The excess was a specific selling point, and 
this turned out to be incorrect. Further to this, when she called up twice, nobody seemed to 
realise that she wanted help. She wanted a policy with the excess shed been promised, and 
everyone skipped over that part and went straight to setting up a complaint. She wasnt 
given any further options, nor was she told she could cancel and get another policy. This left 
Mrs S frustrated and you can hear in her voice when she begins to get defensive, and she 
advises the agent in the call on the 1 May that she wouldnt be paying the full excess if by 
chance a claim is initiated. Further to this in the final response POMSL acknowledge the 
error, but it dismisses its importance. 
I dont think POMSL have dealt with this issue appropriately. Its dismissed Mrs Ss complaint 
without really understanding it. Mrs S has taken insurance for peace of mind in the event of a 
claim. Shes concerned given her husbands medical history and shes budgeting for all 
eventualities. Shes done her research and its clear the excess is something shes factored 
in. And on top of not being able to access the policy days before the holiday she discovers 
its not what she asked for, and when she calls to try to rectify this, her concerns are 
dismissed. I think POMSL have made a significant error during the sale of the policy, and when the 
issue was raised POMSL didnt seem to understand the significance of this error to Mrs S. 
And even though thankfully Mrs S didnt have any cause to use the policy, she was stuck 
with a policy she wasnt happy with she had to go on holiday knowing that if she had to claim 
this was going to cause issues down the line. So, Im upholding this complaint and I 
recommend that POMSL pay Mrs S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
error and poor understanding of her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has replied and has accepted my provisional decision. Post Office Management 
Services Limited havent replied. I see no reason to depart from the above findings and I 
confirm them here, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
 
Putting things right
Post Office Management Services Limited should pay Mrs S £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its error and poor understanding of her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Post Office Management Services Limited to pay Mrs S £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its error and poor understanding of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman