DRN-1640604
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain that Barclays mis-sold them two Premier bank accounts and 
charged them unreasonable fees and charges on those accounts.
What happened
Mr M and Miss M say that they took out a joint Barclays Premier account and a single 
Barclays Premier account for Mr M in 1999. They say the only reason they did so was 
because Barclays said they couldnt have a mortgage without them having the Premier 
accounts. And Mr M and Miss M say they later found out that they couldve had a mortgage 
without the Premier accounts. So, they say the accounts were mis-sold, and Mr M and Miss 
M want their account monthly fees back.
Over the years both accounts incurred overdraft fees which Mr M and Miss M say were 
unreasonable and their circumstances meant they couldnt pay off the overdrafts and close 
the accounts. They also say they tried to obtain loans from Barclays to reduce their overdraft 
borrowing but were declined by Barclays.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint and they disagree, so the 
complaint has come to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill consider whether the accounts were mis-sold. In 1999 the principle benefits of the 
Premier accounts were better rates on mortgages, loans and savings and up to £1000 
overdraft facilities with no fees, and higher overdraft facilities at reduced rates. There were 
no insurance products associated with them. 
Mr M and Miss M say that Barclays told them they couldnt get a mortgage without taking out 
the Premier accounts. Barclays says it never made acceptance of a mortgage dependent on 
customers having premier accounts but having premier accounts did give access to 
mortgages at better rates. 
Its impossible for me to know after all this time what happened, as there are no records of 
the sale. But Barclays has provided evidence that the mortgage Mr M and Miss M took out in 
1999 was closed in 2002. After the mortgage finished, Mr M and Miss M kept the Premier 
accounts open.
I think its more likely than not that if Mr M and Miss M took out the Premier accounts 
because they were told they had to have them to get their mortgage, they would have closed 
them in 2002, but they didnt (see below). So, in the absence of any other evidence, I dont 
think its fair to uphold their complaint on this point.
In relation to the charges on the accounts for being overdrawn, Mr M and Miss M say that 
they were stuck with their accounts and couldnt close them as Barclays wouldnt give them 
a loan to help do so.
Ive taken a detailed look at the records of both accounts ledgers. It appears to me that a 
substantial amount of money went into and out of both accounts, including transfers to and 
from other bank accounts and businesses. There are also records of conversations between 
Barclays and Mr M and Miss M over the years where Mr M and Miss M explain how they are 
going to reduce their overdraft from other financial resources. And there are many occasions 
where the account goes into credit.
So, I dont think I can say fairly that Mr M and Miss M were not able to close these accounts 
and move to other accounts of their choice if theyd wanted to. 
I think that any requests for loans from Mr M and Miss M would have considered by Barclays 
on the basis of their credit score, and Barclays wouldve been within its rights to provide or 
not provide a loan once Mr M and Miss Ms wider assets and borrowings were taken into 
account, and there is evidence from Barclays records that over the years, that was what 
happened.
It also appears to me from Barclays evidence that it applied its overdraft charges in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the accounts, and Mr M and Miss M were 
aware of what it was doing.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr M and Miss M, I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong when it sold them the Premier accounts in 1999, or when applying charges 
to the accounts over the years.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman