DRN-3142723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain because AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled holiday 
under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to AWP include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were insured under an annual travel insurance policy, provided by AWP. The
policy was purchased in November 2019.
Mr and Mrs S were due to travel abroad on a skiing holiday, to a country which Ill call F,
from 14 March 2020 to 21 March 2020.
Aware of restrictions being imposed on ski resorts in other countries because of the
circumstances surrounding Covid-19, Mr and Mrs S decided not to travel on their early
morning flight on 14 March 2020. Theyve reiterated that they didnt cancel the trip at that
point, only postponed it, and would still have been prepared to travel a day or two later if the
situation allowed.
Later in the day on 14 March 2020, the government in F announced that all ski resorts would
be closed until further notice. Mr and Mrs S subsequently made a claim under their policy
with AWP for their unused travel costs. Some of these costs have since been refunded
directly by the providers.
AWP refused to pay Mr and Mrs Ss claim, as it said their trip hadnt been cancelled for one
of the listed, insured reasons set out in their policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained to AWP before bringing their complaint to the attention
of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said, although Mr and Mrs Ss
claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy, she thought it would be
fair and reasonable for AWP to re-assess their claim regardless. This was because our 
investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ss policy would have provided them with any cover if
theyd travelled and remained abroad after a certain date, but they also had no cover for
cancelling their trip and she didnt think this was made clear in Mr and Mrs Ss policy
documentation.
AWP didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was
referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in October 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ss complaint.
I understand the situation which Mr and Mrs S found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and that, effectively, they had little alternative but not to travel on their trip. I
also understand that, when Mr and Mrs S bought this insurance policy, the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either consumers or insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. AWPs
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs S are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy, at page 18 under the heading Cancellation or curtailment provides
for AWP to pay for certain irrecoverable costs if a policyholder cannot travel for one of the
following listed, insured reasons:
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy
legislation, cancellation of leave for British forces, police or government security staff,
summoning to jury service or witness attendance in court of you or your travelling
companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner;
of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the person
concerned.
3. Hijack.
4. Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5. Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request
of an emergency service requires your presence.
Mr and Mrs S have said their claim should be covered as they didnt travel due to
compulsory quarantine on the orders of a treating doctor and have provided a letter from
their GP in support of their position.
However, having taken into account the content of emails between Mr S and his
accommodation providers on 14 March 2020 and 15 March 2020 as well as the date and
content of the GP letter, Im not satisfied that compulsory quarantine on the orders of a
treating doctor was what led to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss trip.
In addition, although quarantine isnt defined within Mr and Mrs Ss policy terms and
conditions, Ive had regard to dictionary definitions of the word and what I think is the
ordinary and everyday meaning of the word, as well as the context in which the word is used
within the policy. Having done so, I dont think Mr S and Mrs S can reasonably beconsidered to have been in isolation to prevent the spread of disease. Although non-
essential locations in F may have been closed to prevent the spread of disease, Mr and Mrs
S werent at that time confined to their home or any other location due to the orders of their
treating doctor.
Instead, I think the reason for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss trip was due to the closure
of ski resorts by the government in F in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. These arent
reasons that are covered by the Cancellation or curtailment section of their insurance
policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy, but I dont
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.
Both Mr and Mrs S and our investigator pointed to a general exclusion in their policy, on
page 14, which says:
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the Insurer) for
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection
with: 
10. You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation
has advised against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the Insurer.
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I
might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict
application of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask AWP to do so here.
This is because the FCDO wasnt advising against travel to F on 14 March 2020, the date of 
Mr and Mrs Ss intended departure. The FCDO advised against all but essential travel to F 
on 17 March 2020, but Mr and Mrs S were due to already be abroad at this point. On 23 
March 2020, the FCDO advised all British travellers who were abroad to return to the UK  
however, this was after Mr and Mrs S were due to return to the UK. 
So, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr and Mrs S would have had no cover at all under 
their insurance policy if theyd travelled on their trip as planned. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S and I understand theyve gone to some lengths in an
attempt to have their claim paid. But I dont think their claim is covered under the terms and
conditions of their policy and I dont think AWP has acted unfairly or unreasonably by
declining their claim.
AWP replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs S 
replied to say they were disappointed with my interpretation of the word quarantine, and 
they provided a dictionary definition of the word, which they say they effectively met. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss comments about the definition of quarantine. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr and Mrs Ss situation met this definition (which I dont, as Mr 
and Mrs S werent themselves in isolation), I dont think the reason they didnt travel on 14 
March 2020 was because they were under compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor at that time.
Having taken into account the available evidence in this case, I think the reason for the 
cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss trip was the closure of ski resorts in F. This isnt something 
which their policy provides cover for. 
So, I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman