DRN-3323437
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods 
(Littlewoods) applied late payment charges to his account.
What happened
Mr M opened a Littlewoods account in February 2020 via their website. He had a limit of 
£250. Littlewoods applied late payment charges of £12 to his account on 26 March 2020, 20 
June 2020, and 12 September 2020.
Mr M complained, He said that he received benefit payments every 30 days  but 
Littlewoods wanted him to pay every 28 days. So, this was inconvenient and meant he 
couldnt always pay on time. He asked Littlewoods to be flexible and allow him a payment 
cycle of 30 days, but theyd refused. As a result, his credit file had been marked with late 
payments and was affecting his ability to get credit. He said that this wasnt fair  as in some 
months, he paid much more than the minimum needed and didnt get any credit for that.
Littlewoods apologised for some of the service Mr M received on the phone. But they went 
on to say that the payment cycle of 28 days is set that way as most items are sold on weekly 
terms and as such payments are requested every four weeks, in line with that. This was 
detailed in their terms and conditions. These also said there would be a fee charged if a 
payment was missed. And they were obliged to notify credit reference agencies about the 
conduct of customers accounts. As a gesture of goodwill, they refunded the three late 
payment fees totalling £36.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Littlewoods had acted fairly. The 
payment cycle of 28 days was contained in Littlewoods terms and conditions. And he could 
see that Mr M had either paid late or not paid enough in three months  and so incurred late 
fees of £12  in each of March 2020, June 2020, and September 2020. Even though Mr M 
had overpaid in some months, that didnt matter  he must pay the minimum amount each 
month as shown on his monthly statement.
Mr M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Littlewoods terms and condition say. They say that payments are due 
every 28 days:  Every 28 days you will be required to make at least the minimum payment, 
which will be the total payment due for transactions on the Standard Facility, plus any 
instalments due on Extended Plans and BNPL Plans, plus any insurance premiums, 
payment default charges or payment processing charges that are due. If you have any 
arrears, they will also be included in the minimum payment. 
They also say that any late payments would be charged at £12, and also be notified to 
credit reference agencies: If you fail to pay at least the minimum payment by the payment 
due date shown on your statement, we will apply payment default charges to your account. 
We may charge £12 for a minimum payment not being made or for it being made late 
Missing payments can have other serious consequences such as the transfer of your 
account to a debt collection agency or legal proceedings being taken against you. It may 
also impact adversely on your credit rating making it harder for you to obtain credit in 
future.
Mr M had a standard facility. The credit agreement said Your Standard Facility: which is 
available for all transactions. It allows you to pay off your transactions interest free over a 
duration of 20 weeks. The amount due for payment every 28 days (4 weeks) will be the total 
cost for each transaction divided by 5.
So, for me, the terms and conditions are clear  and Littlewoods were following them. I say 
that because I can see that Mr M was sent a statement on 29 February 2020 which said he 
needed to make the minimum payment of £12 by 20 March 2020. But he paid £12 on 25 
March 2020, which was five days after the due date. So, a £12 late payment fee was 
applied, and the information was recorded with the credit reference agencies, which is in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr Ms statement produced on 23 May 2020 had a minimum payment of £40.92 due by 12 
June 2020. A payment of £25 was made on 9 June 2020, but this wasnt enough to cover 
the minimum payment owed. The second late payment charge of £12 was applied on 20 
June 2020 and the  credit reference agencies were notified.
Mr Ms statement was produced on 15 August 2020 and needed a minimum payment of 
£42.80 by 4 September 2020. He made a payment of £22 on 31 August 2020, which 
wasnt enough to cover the minimum payment. So, a charge of £12 was made and the 
credit reference agencies notified.
So - Littlewoods were acting in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr M says he wanted the payment cycle changed for him to allow a cycle of 30 days  as 
that was how his benefits were paid. But to be fair, I dont think we can reasonably ask 
Littlewoods to do that for Mr M  as they must have standard terms and cycles for all 
customers. 
He also says he was in financial difficulty due to the COVID pandemic. In those 
circumstances, we would have expected Littlewoods to offer to Mr M some support under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys scheme to help customers affected in that way. This 
could have given Mr M the chance to miss payments for a three-month period, without the 
credit reference agencies being notified. So I listened to the call he had with Littlewoods on 
19 September 2020  and the call handler did say that such a scheme was then available 
(he called it a payment freeze) and that Mr M could apply for it. I think that may have been 
helpful to Mr M  but on the call he said, I dont want that. 
Mr M also said that he thought it was unfair to make the charges because he overpaid in 
some months. So, Ive considered this point. But Im afraid that credit agreements like the one Mr M signed up to dont work like that  so called continuing credit agreements 
always need a minimum amount to be paid each month  rather like a credit card.
In Mr Ms case, I can see that Littlewoods refunded three charges of £12. Which I think was 
fair under the circumstances. And so  I wont be asking then to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman