DRN-2666204
The complaint
Mr O and Ms G are unhappy Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) blocked and closed their 
accounts and registered a CIFAS against Mr O, meaning he hasnt been able to open an 
account elsewhere. 
Because the accounts are held jointly, I have referred to both Mr O and Ms G. However, 
Mr O is driving this complaint and has explained that although Ms G is named on the 
accounts, she didnt use them. Given this, I may refer to just Mr O at times. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr O and Ms G received two credits into their accounts. In April 2019 Halifax 
received a report from the sending banks that these credits were fraudulent. 
Halifax blocked the account on 23 April 2019 and contacted Mr O to discuss the credits. Mr 
O told Halifax the credits were in relation to his business and the money was from a client for 
the sale of cars. He said he could provide invoices to show this. Mr O attended branch the 
following day with a copy of the wire transfer sheets. However, Halifax said this wasnt 
sufficient to show he was entitled to the funds. 
Halifax issued a notice to close Mr O and Ms Gs accounts on 24 April 2019, explaining all 
their accounts would be closed in 65 days time. 
Mr O has explained how Halifaxs actions led to him not being able to continue operating his 
business and hes been unable to open an account elsewhere. He explained the matter has 
had grave consequences on him both medically and financially. Mr O would like Halifax to 
reopen the accounts, remove the CIFAS recorded against him and pay compensation for the 
impact the matter has had on him. 
Mr O complained to Halifax and it issued its final response letter in June 2019. In this letter it 
explained the accounts had been closed due to the fraudulent credits into the accounts and 
that the wire transfer sheets provided in branch werent sufficient to show he was entitled to 
the money. It also informed Mr O that it had recorded a CIFAS marker against his name. 
Mr O remained unhappy with Halifaxs response so referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She requested further evidence from Mr O and 
Ms G to support their claim that they were entitled to the credits that came into the account. 
Mr O provided contracts for the sale of cars. However, the investigator didnt deem these to 
be sufficient as the amounts and dates differed to the transfers into the account. She 
concluded that Halifax was acting within its legal and regulatory obligations when blocking, 
reviewing and closing the accounts. And due to Mr O being unable to provide any compelling 
evidence that he was entitled to the funds that credited the account, the CIFAS loading was 
correct and should remain. 
Mr O didnt agree with the outcome and so the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review and closure 
Halifax has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening 
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity 
taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts being blocked and 
closed.  If Halifax didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Halifax was within its rights to block Mr O and Ms Gs 
accounts and carry out a review following the report that the credits to their accounts were 
fraudulent. Mr O didnt provide Halifax with sufficient evidence to show he was entitled to the 
credits  he was only able to produce a wire transfer sheet at the time which wasnt enough 
to satisfy Halifax. And Im in agreement with this  this evidence only shows where the 
money had come from, not that Mr O or Ms G were entitled to it. 
Halifax therefore decided to close the account and Im satisfied it was entitled to do so. It 
gave 65 days notice of this, but I note that the accounts were blocked during this time so Mr 
O and Ms G couldnt use them, other than to withdraw benefits and wages in branch. So, it 
was effectively an immediate closure. Halifax was entitled to do this in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations and having reviewed the terms and conditions, it was in line with these 
too. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Os frustration with the closure and the inconvenience caused by 
the lack of access to the accounts, Im satisfied no error was made by Halifax. It has the 
discretion to offer accounts to who it wishes, just as Mr O can choose who to bank with. 
CIFAS marker
The CIFAS marker that Halifax has filed is relating to the fact it says Mr O used the account 
to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it is not required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show there are 
grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, 
an illegitimate payment. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. The relevant finding for me to make is whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet this 
standard of proof, to determine whether Halifax was entitled to escalate its concerns and 
record the marker. 
As mentioned, Halifax received a report from the sending banks that two credits into Mr O 
and Ms Gs accounts were fraudulent. It conducted a review and asked Mr O to provide 
proof of entitlement to the funds. Mr O was only able to provide a wire transfer form. It 
explained to him he would need to provide something more substantial than this to show he 
had a business relationship with the sender of the funds and what the purpose of the credits 
were. I cant see that Mr O provided anything further at the time. 
Mr O provided this service with some additional documentation, namely what appear to be 
contracts for three car sales. However, the amounts mentioned in these contracts dont 
match up with the amounts Mr O received into the accounts. Nor do they show the name of 
the person on the wire transfer form. In addition, the date on the contracts is after the date 
the payments were received into the accounts. Mr O hasnt provided any explanation around 
these discrepancies despite us pointing them out. 
Given this, Im not persuaded Mr O has done enough to show he was entitled to the credits 
in the account. This, coupled with the fact these credits were reported as fraudulent, means 
Im satisfied the CIFAS marker has been recorded fairly and correctly by Halifax. I therefore 
wont be asking Halifax to remove it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr O and Ms Gs complaint against Bank of Scotland 
(trading as Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman