DRN-4445184
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC disclosed his personal information without his 
consent.
What happened
Mr A says a Barclays employee disclosed his personal information without his consent. He 
would like an explanation and investigation into what took place. He also says he believes 
Barclays has deleted evidence of what took place.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr A on 20 March 2023 in response to his complaint. It says it 
asked him for details of what he says took place and with whom he says the information was 
shared. Barclays says Mr A didnt respond and it has no record of a court case as Mr A 
suggests is ongoing.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think Mr A had provided Barclays or us with sufficient information to investigate what took 
place. The investigator told Mr A we are an alternative to court proceedings and that 
Barclays request for further information was reasonable.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says he has a recording of a telephone conversation 
which he intends to reveal in court proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Mr As complaint letter to Barclays and its response. Having done 
so Im satisfied that Mr A didnt provide Barclays with any real information about his 
complaint which would have allowed it to carry out an investigation. I dont think Mr A 
provided the date of the alleged data breach, the exact nature of any data breach or with 
whom any data was shared. I cant see how Barclays could carry out any form of 
investigation into Mr As complaint without that information.
I can see that Barclays fairly wrote to Mr A on 20 March 2023 and asked him before that 
date for further information about his complaint. But Mr A didnt reply and so I dont think 
Barclays acted unfairly by telling Mr A that it could not find any evidence of his data being 
shared. I dont know why Mr A makes a complaint to both Barclays and us but refuses to 
provide any more than the general nature of his complaint. I hope Mr A appreciates that 
without specific information about this complaint then it is impossible for Barclays or us to be 
able to conclude it made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I have not seen any evidence that Barclays disclosed Mr As personal information and am 
satisfied it has carried out an investigation as best it can in these circumstances.
Overall, I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do. I have not seen any evidence of court proceedings that Mr A says prevents him from 
sharing further information with us. And I dont think it clear why Mr A hasnt shared the 
phone call recording with either us or Barclays if he says its relevant. I find Mr A has been 
repeatedly asked by both Barclays and us for further information about this complaint. And 
has had since February 2023 to provide it. In those circumstances I cant fairly conclude 
Barclays shared Mr As personal data, deleted its records or acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman