DRN-2942927
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc gave them unsuitable advice about 
consolidating unsecured debts. They say theyve paid additional interest as a result. Mr and 
Mrs B are represented by a claims management company. They say they want to be put into 
the position theyd have been in without the unsuitable advice.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B re-mortgaged with Bank of Scotland in late 2007. Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative says Bank of Scotland shouldnt have recommended they consolidate 
unsecured debts.
Our investigator said Bank of Scotlands records suggest it discussed the additional interest 
costs and the appropriateness of securing the debts on Mr and Mrs Bs house with them. 
Consolidating the debts reduced Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payments  which theyd said they 
wanted to achieve. Before the consolidation they had little, if any, disposable income. The 
investigator said the advice was suitable.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Their representative said Mr and Mrs B could have consolidated 
their credit card debt and left the loans, which had a lower interest rate and fixed repayment 
date, unsecured. This would have reduced their monthly payments and the loans would 
have been repaid within 3-5 years. The representative said Bank of Scotland hadnt provided 
calculations or reasoning for its recommendation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Consolidating debt into a mortgage can reduce monthly outgoings. However, it has 
disadvantages, including that debts are paid over a longer period meaning more interest is 
paid overall. Mr and Mrs Bs representative says Bank of Scotland shouldnt have 
recommended consolidation here. The representative says Mr and Mrs B wanted to tackle 
their debts, but wouldnt have consolidated their unsecured debts if theyd known the true 
cost and that theyd still be repaying them 14 years later. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the mortgage. So I need to consider whether the advice to 
consolidate unsecured debts was suitable. And if Mr and Mrs B were made aware of the 
consequences of this.
The events complained about happened in 2007 and not all of the documents Id hope to 
see are available. When making my decision I must rely on the information that is available, 
which Ive summarised below.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says they were living within their means and not in financial 
hardship. This is consistent with Bank of Scotlands notes, which say Mr and Mrs B werent 
in financial difficulty but wanted to rationalise their outgoings and preferred one lower 
monthly payment.
Bank of Scotlands notes say Mr and Mrs B were aware that by adding their unsecured debts 
to the mortgage they would become secured and that interest would be paid on the debts 
over the life of the mortgage. 
Bank of Scotland cant now provide all of the documents from that time. It cant provide the 
mortgage advisers reasons for recommending debt consolidation or calculations showing 
the difference in the interest costs. 
Mr and Mrs B had received a gift of £6,000 from a family member in August 2007. They used 
£3,000 to repay a credit card account.
Mr and Mrs B had unsecured debts (personal loans and credit cards) of more than £40,000.  
Bank of Scotlands records showed that while they were now up to date Mr and Mrs B had 
missed or been late with payments to three credit card accounts. They used their overdraft 
facility.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent in financial difficulty. They say they wanted to tackle their 
debts as they didnt want to be caught in credit. 
Bank of Scotlands notes say Mr and Mrs B preferred one lower monthly payment rather 
than payments to the personal loans and credit cards.
After the re-mortgage and debt consolidation Mr and Mrs Bs monthly debt repayments 
reduced to about £880 from £1,700. 
Was the advice suitable?
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says they wouldnt have agreed to the consolidation if theyd 
known the true cost. He says theyll pay about £7,000 or £17,000 in additional interest. I 
dont know if its possible now to calculate the difference in interest payments between 
consolidating and not consolidating these debts  that is whether wed have enough 
information about the accounts that were repaid. But, assuming the representative is broadly 
right, I have to think about this in the context of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at that time. 
At that time Mr and Mrs B had unsecured debts of more than £40,000. Their comments 
about wanting to tackle their debts and not to be caught in debt suggests they had some 
concerns about this. 
Mr and Mrs B had missed or been late with payments to three credit card accounts. 
Whatever the reasons for that, it might have worried them. Their search record suggests 
theyd applied for credit card accounts a few months before re-mortgaging. 
By consolidating their unsecured debts Mr and Mrs B reduced their monthly debt 
repayments by over £800 per month. 
Not all of Mr and Mrs Bs unsecured debts were consolidated. Perhaps they intended to 
repay these with the remainder of the lump sum gift and their increased disposable income. 
This suggests some discussion and decision making about which debts would be repaid 
from the proceeds of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says Bank of Scotland could have recommended only consolidating the credit card accounts  which had high interest and no fixed repayment date 
 and leaving the personal loans to be repaid over their term. Its difficult to know how this 
would have affected Mr and Mrs Bs monthly outgoings. If they were only making minimum 
payments to their credit card accounts, this might not have had much impact on their 
monthly outgoings.
Its difficult to reach a firm conclusion about what Bank of Scotland took into account, its 
reasoning and what Mr and Mrs B were told in 2007 based on limited available evidence. 
Like Mr and Mrs Bs representative, Id like to see Bank of Scotlands reasons and 
calculations for the debt consolidation (if it did them). Given the time passed I dont think its 
fair to draw any adverse inference from Bank of Scotland being unable to provide all of the 
documents that might have been available at that time. Nor is it fair to expect Mr and Mrs B 
to recall every detail of the discussions they had with the mortgage adviser. 
On balance, I think the available evidence suggests debt consolidation could have benefitted 
Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances at that time, and that Bank of Scotland did discuss 
the consequences of debt consolidation with Mr and Mrs B.
I dont think I can fairly find that the recommendation was unsuitable, or that Mr and Mrs B 
werent made aware of the consequences of consolidating previously unsecured debts into 
their mortgage. On balance, I think its likely they decided to go ahead as the immediate 
benefit of reducing their monthly outgoings outweighed the longer-term costs. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman