DRN-4407225
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund a payment she didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In September 2023, I issues a provisional decision explaining why I intended to uphold 
Miss Ds complaint. Both sides accepted what I said, so I see no reason to depart from my 
decision. For completeness, Ive explained my reasoning again below. 
Revolut declined to refund this disputed payment because a chargeback claim was 
unlikely to succeed, given that it was made by Apple Pay. I accept this, but its not 
the only relevant consideration.
I must also consider the Payment Services Regulations 2017. The starting position 
under these is that Miss D isnt liable for a payment she didnt authorise.
Revolut hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. Id agree that, in line 
with the PSRs, thats how it would be regarded. Because it wasnt Miss D that used 
Apply Pay to make the payment in store  instead she was tricked into sharing 
information that allowed fraudsters to set up Apple Pay on their own device.
Ive gone on to consider whether, in line with the PSRs, Revolut has shown theres a 
reason Miss D shouldnt be refunded. Its not explicitly stated a reason. But given the 
allegations Miss D shared virtual card details and a one-time code that, in part, led to 
the fraud taking place, I have nonetheless considered whether she failed with gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep her personalised 
security details safe.
Miss D hasnt consistently recalled what information she shared. But, given she 
accepted sharing the virtual card details and the code when she first contacted 
Revolut, and how that was in the immediate aftermath of the scam, I think its likely 
she did. Indeed, theres no other plausible explanation for how the payment couldve 
been made if she didnt. 
But, having considered the circumstances of the scam, Im not persuaded that means 
she failed with gross negligence  or, in other words, that she acted with very 
significant carelessness; seriously disregarded an obvious risk; or acted so far below 
what a reasonable person wouldve done.
In saying that, Ive reflected on Miss Ds trust that she was speaking with Revolut  
the call appeared to come from Revoluts number and theyd several pieces of her 
personal and sensitive account information. In the moment, I can see how she was 
tricked into thinking that only Revolut wouldve known these things.
Miss D recalled she was told someone had attempted fraud on her account  so they 
would cancel her card and shed need to activate a new virtual one. While I cant be 
certain how she came to share her virtual card details given her vague memory, I 
think it makes sense this was how they tricked her. Indeed, it fits with other similar 
scams our service has seen. And, reflecting on Miss Ds trust in the caller and panic 
at her money being at risk, I can understand why this seemed like a plausible request 
and why she followed their instructions.
I also cant say for certain why Miss D shared the one-time code with the caller. But 
Miss D has at least consistently said she believed they were moving her money 
internally to keep it safe. It follows that I think it's more likely than not that she shared 
it thinking it would ultimately keep her money safe.
I recognise that the message said: Revolut verification code for Apple Pay: 
[XXXXXX]. Never share it with anyone, ever.
I dont know whether Miss D properly read this message. Im mindful that, given the 
pressure fraudsters typically apply in these types of scams, its common victims dont 
think they have the time to take it in and instead, focus on the number requested.
But, even if Miss D saw the warning, I can understand how it didnt ring alarm bells 
that the caller wasnt who they purported to be. Indeed, I can imagine how receiving 
the message when shed been told to expect it likely reassured her she was speaking 
with Revolut. And given this trust, I can understand how she simply followed their 
instructions, having been sucked into believing shed lose money if she didnt act. 
Afterall, its possible to see how someone could think anyone wouldnt include the 
sender of the message.
This isnt to say Miss D acted perfectly reasonably. Of course, its possible to call her 
actions careless. But, in the convincing and panic-inducting circumstances of this 
scam, Ive not been persuaded that Revolut has shown that Miss D failed with gross 
negligence.
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider Miss D can be fairly held liable 
for this unauthorised payment and Revolut need to put things right  by refunding her 
losses from the payment alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate her 
for the time shes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ds complaint. Revolut Ltd must:
Pay Miss D the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £4,420.00.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman