DRN-3211983
The complaint
Ms S complains that Scottish Widows Limited gave her incorrect information regarding a 
pension switch.
What happened
Ms S was unhappy with the performance of a particular fund held in her Scottish Widows 
pension. And so she wished to switch out of that fund and set up a SIPP with another 
provider and switch the money across to it.
In early January 2020, Ms S spoke to Scottish Widows about this and asked to do a partial 
transfer of her pension. It explained to Ms S that to sell down the pension in the way that she 
requested couldnt be done through their systems online. Ms S would either need to 
complete a discharge form with it via post. Otherwise it said she could ask the new provider 
for transfer forms. It was agreed that Scottish Widows would send Ms S the forms by post to 
achieve the partial transfer. 
Ms S checked with Scottish Widows that nothing would happen until she sent her 
instructions back to it  and they confirmed that to be the case.
Unfortunately, shortly after, the other provider requested the transfer via Origo (despite Ms 
S instructions not to do so). The funds left Ms S Scottish Widows pension but split evenly 
across her fund holdings instead of from the specific fund she wished to fully disinvest from.
On 19 March Ms S spoke to Scottish Widows about the situation and it discussed the 
opportunity to request the funds back from the other provider. Ms S said she wanted to think 
about it.
On 27 May Scottish Widows sent Ms S a final response letter. It offered to put Ms S back in 
the position she wouldve been in had the transfer not occurred. However, it also explained 
that what it had told Ms S about being able to select which funds she could disinvest from 
was incorrect. And any partial pension switch of funds to another provider could only be 
done using an even split of money across the funds held in the pension. For the confusion it 
had caused it offered Ms S £400.
Ms S says the offer to move the funds back didnt appeal due to the underperforming fund 
she held with Scottish Widows.
Our investigator looked into matters and concluded that the £400 offered by Scottish Widows 
was sufficient recognition of the distress and inconvenience its incorrect information had 
caused Ms S. He explained that it was the other provider who had requested the money 
when it shouldnt have done so. And the instructions received by Scottish Widows was just 
to switch £41,000  there was no instructions to disinvest from a particular fund. He said if 
that instruction had been present, Scottish Widows wouldve likely realised then it couldnt do 
this and the switch wouldnt have taken place. In the circumstances he thought Scottish 
Widows offer to put her back in the position she wouldve been in was the best it could do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Scottish Widows mistake was that it gave Ms S incorrect information, giving her an 
expectation that the switch could be disinvested from a particular fund when in actual fact it 
had to be an even split. This will have caused Ms S a lot of frustration and inconvenience, 
she was working towards a plan that couldnt be achieved. 
With regard to the actual switch I understand the other provider sent its instructions to 
Scottish Widows via Origo. And there was nothing to suggest in that instruction that it 
shouldnt allow the switch to proceed. I dont think Scottish Widows was wrong to consider 
the electronic request via Origo as reflecting Ms S instructions to the other provider. In 
actual fact the other provider had jumped the gun and requested the transfer when Ms S had 
told it not to. But I dont think Scottish Widows was to blame here.
So in considering what Scottish Widows needs to do to put things right, Ive looked at the 
effect of the error it made in giving Ms S incorrect information. And having done so I think the 
consequence of its mistake is mainly restricted to the frustration it wouldve caused Ms S in 
being given incorrect information  and the time and effort wasted in trying to carry out a 
plan that couldnt be achieved. I say this because it was the other provider who were 
responsible for the switch occurring before it shouldve done so. Had it followed Ms S 
instructions, I dont think the switch of funds wouldve occurred.
I say this because Ms S intended action couldnt be achieved and Scottish Widows wouldve 
realised this if it received the correct instruction from the other provider  or Ms Ss 
completed discharge form with the specific disinvestment instructions. Had this occurred, 
Scottish Widows wouldve then had the chance to go back to Ms S and explain it had given 
her incorrect information  and the switch wouldve been paused. 
So I dont think it would be fair to hold Scottish Widows responsible for the switch being 
carried out before Ms S was ready to do so. In any event Scottish Widows did offer to put Ms 
S back in the position she wouldve been in had the switch not occurred. I dont think 
reasonably, because of what Ive explained above, it could be expected to offer more than 
that. Especially as after the switch took place, unfortunately Ms S didnt mitigate her 
situation, she remained invested in the underperforming fund. And I understand at the time 
she spoke to our investigator, over six months later, Ms S was still invested in it. The other 
provider also offered to look into whether she had suffered a loss because of this situation 
but Ms S didnt take up this offer.  
I appreciate what Ms S has said about how the mistake caused her stress and she found it 
difficult to deal with the pension afterwards. But I have to take into account what the 
business has done to attempt to put things right  even if the customer doesnt engage with 
the solutions. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Scottish Widows to 
do anything other than pay Ms S some compensation for its mistake in giving her inaccurate 
information. 
Scottish Widows offered £400 and I think in the circumstances this is sufficient. As Ive 
explained I think its mistake wouldve caused Ms S frustration and inconvenience, but the 
main upset and stress suffered by Ms S was due to the switch being completed to early due 
to the other providers mistake. Had this not occurred the impact of this situation wouldve been a lot less on Ms S. And I dont think it would be fair to put much of that responsibility on 
Scottish Widows. Considering our guidelines for awards, Scottish Widows offer to attempt to 
put things right and Ms S unfortunate lack of action after the event to mitigate matters, I 
dont think any further award would be appropriate here.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited doesnt need to do anything more to put matters right.
If Scottish Widows Limited hasnt already paid Ms S the £400 it should do now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman