DRN-3124727
The complaint
Ms F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) overdraft charges were unfair and 
causing her financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms F complained to HSBC that its overdraft charges were unfair and causing her financial 
difficulty. HSBC says all charges were applied in-line with the terms and conditions of her 
account and says it has already provided a number of refunds as a gesture of goodwill in 
order to assist Ms F as well has putting her in touch with its financial guidance team. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Fs concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Ms F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Ms F has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Ms F if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Fs account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms F was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So, Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Ms F fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Ms F unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Ms Fs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
HSBC ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. 
Ms F may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Ms F 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and Ms F was able 
to bring her account into credit regularly before again going on to use her overdraft to make 
debit card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean 
that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to any potential financial 
difficulty. And the amount being credited to Ms Fs account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Fs account was being used. 
HSBC also refunded £710.55 of charges made to Ms Fs account when she went into 
unarranged overdraft and it failed to notify her of the charges that would apply for using this 
facility.  So taking everything into consideration I dont think HSBC treated Ms F unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms F  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman