DRN-2768345
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has disproportionately increased their 
car insurance premiums when it offered them a renewal quote. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a motor insurance policy with Aviva in 2018  they took the policy out 
online and they were charged an annual premium of £657.
Mr and Mrs H accepted Avivas renewal quote in 2019, at a cost of £605, and continued with 
their policy.
During the course of this policy Mr and Mrs Hs car was broken into, and subsequently 
written off. Prior to this incident, Mrs H had 5 years no claims discount (NCD), but this wasnt 
protected. Understandably, Mr and Mrs H say this incident caused them a lot of upset and 
distress. They say this was compounded by Aviva offering them lower than the market value 
for their car. Aviva then realised it had made a mistake in the amount it offered and rectified 
this for Mr and Mrs H.
When Mr and Mrs Hs policy came up for renewal again, they noticed it had increased 
significantly, and the quote they were given was for £1,235. Mr and Mrs H spoke to Aviva on 
two separate occasions to try and get this reduced, and they were offered £1,014 and then 
£964.18 (the latter price included the removal of two named drivers). But they remained 
unhappy with the quoted amount and decided not to accept Avivas offer.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Aviva. It said that it felt as though Aviva was trying to recoup 
some of the expense from when it paid out on their claim by increasing the premiums to 
such a high amount. 
Mr and Mrs H then went to see how much theyd be quoted if they were a new customer of 
Avivas and they found that they would have been charged less. So, theyre now unhappy 
and feel as though they are being penalised by Aviva for being loyal customers. 
While Mr and Mrs H say they accept that their premium would likely increase as a result of 
the claim they made, and the loss of no claims discount, they still feel as though theyve 
been treated unfairly by Aviva  and that their renewal quote was disproportionally high.
Aviva responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It explained that due to the reduction in no 
claims discount, a fault claim and change in vehicle, the annual premium had increased  it 
said it hadnt done anything wrong when calculating the premium. It said that when Mrs H 
went online to reapply as a new customer and got a cheaper quote, this was down to a 
number of factors, which included a discount for applying online, the excess had been 
lowered and some of the additional extra cover Mr and Mrs H had on their policy had been 
omitted from the quote. Aviva didnt think that Mr and Mrs H had been treated unfairly. But it 
did offer Mr and Mrs H £150 for some misleading information it gave.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr and Mrs H. He didnt uphold their complaint 
and didnt think that Aviva had acted unfairly when it increased Mr and Mrs Hs premium  
and he found that the majority of increase in premium related to a change in risk and a 
reduction in NCD.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and they raised a number of points, I have 
summarised the main ones below:
The complaint is about hidden fees and charges applied to their policy. And the 
existence of the extra charges applied to their policy without their consent can not be 
considered commercially sensitive information.
The industry wide practices being used by Aviva are unfair and this is demonstrated 
in a super complaint being raised.
The charges applied by Aviva are disproportionate.
It is industry practice that insurers are charging penalties to customers for being 
loyal.
Because Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know theyll be 
disappointed by this decision, but I will explain my reasons for it in more detail below.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Mr and Mrs H have sent this service a lot 
of information for me to consider during the course of their complaint. If Ive not reflected 
something thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either 
party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, 
to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs H say that Aviva unfairly increased the cost of 
their renewal premium. 
This service isnt the industry regulator; thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And 
the FCA doesnt currently regulate on the price insurers charge or the methods an insurer 
uses to calculate a price. 
It's normal for insurers to consider that factors, such as claims history, pose a different risk 
for which they may charge a different premium. So, by Aviva increasing Mr and Mrs Hs 
premium doesn't in isolation mean it has treated them unfairly. 
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or 
how much risk to attach to each of those factors. Insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own 
way. 
So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated 
them the same as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. Ive looked at 
Avivas information about Mr and Mrs Hs premiums both before and after the renewal. And 
I've looked to see how those have changed. 
The information it has used to price Mr and Mrs Hs policy is commercially sensitive so I 
can't share that with them. But I can see the premiums it charged took into account the 
changes that happened part way through the previous policy year, and these have resulted 
in the extra premium. While Mr and Mrs H might find that unfair, it's not for me to tell Aviva 
how it should rate these risks. Nor can I tell it to change the way it considers those risks. 
From looking at the information it has provided, I think Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs H in the 
same way that it would other customers in similar circumstances. 
There are some aspects of pricing we will look into further, depending on whats relevant in a 
particular complaint. This includes if the price is based on incorrect information, if consumers 
arent given clear information to make decisions with, or if a consumer doesnt have freedom 
to change insurers and choose what premium to pay. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest any of those circumstances apply to this complaint. The 
information it has used to price the policy appears to be correct, the information it has 
provided about the renewal quote is clear and Mr and Mrs H are clearly aware that they have 
the freedom to change providers, because I understand that they have now taken out a new 
policy with a different insurer.
When Ive looked at how Mr and Mrs Hs policy has been priced, I havent seen anything that 
leads me to believe that the increase in premium was down to Aviva trying to recoup some 
of its losses after the successful claim. 
Mr and Mrs H say that when they went and applied for the same policy, as a new customer, 
they were quoted much less. Aviva say that Mr and Mrs H had input slightly different details 
into the application which affected the premium it quoted. But other than this, there was also 
a 20% discount to the policy for applying for it online. Aviva has also provided me with 
information to show that it assesses risk daily  so the same circumstances can generate 
different premiums from one day to the next  there isnt anything wrong with this. And this 
could also explain some of the difference in pricing Mr and Mrs H got from when the renewal 
quote was calculated to when they went online and applied for a new business quote at a 
later date.
As Ive said, different insurers will each make their own assessment of the risks theyre 
asked to cover. The fact that one insurer might rate a risk as being higher than another 
doesn't automatically mean that the insurer who charges a higher premium as a result has 
acted unfairly. So this doesnt lead me to find that Aviva did anything wrong, or didnt treat 
Mr and Mrs H in the same way it would its other customers. It follows that, as Im satisfied 
that Aviva increased Mr and Mrs Hs premium in line with its internal guidance and I think its 
treated them fairly.
I understand Mr and Mrs H now think that Aviva has added what they refer to as hidden 
charges and penalties for being a loyal customer, but I havent seen anything in its pricing 
structure that would allude to this. Avivas pricing structure is made up of risk based factors but is also structured so that it makes a profit on the premiums it charges  this isnt unfair, 
and a commercial business will often price products to ensure it makes a profit.
When this service looks to compensate consumers for something that has gone wrong, we 
would look to see if this has impacted the customer financially. But as Mr and Mrs H didnt 
accept the renewal premium and went elsewhere for their insurance, even if I were to say 
that Aviva had done something wrong, which to be clear Im not, I dont think Mr and Mrs H 
have been financially impacted anyway. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have spent some 
time dealing with this complaint, and Aviva has said that some of the information given to 
them during the course of the complaint has been misleading; I can see that Aviva has paid 
Mr and Mrs H £150 for this, given the circumstances, I think this is a fair amount. And I wont 
be asking Aviva to increase its offer.
Id also like to make it clear that Ive taken into account the information Mr and Mrs H has 
sent this service about industry wide practices in relation to insurance pricing. The more 
recent information they have sent is from an article that is about loyal customers having their 
renewal price increased when the risk hasnt changed. But for the reasons Ive already 
mentioned above, Mr and Mrs Hs risk did change  and Ive seen enough information to 
satisfy me theyve been treated fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman