DRN-2839936
The complaint
 Ms B complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, failed to correct her credit file after it 
upheld a complaint she brought against it for irresponsible lending. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I will be upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
NewDay has accepted that by increasing Ms Bs credit limit it had made her financial 
situation worse. So it agreed to refund interest, over limit fees and late payment fees 
related to Ms Bs account after it implemented her first credit limit increase in January 
2015. It said it should have realised Ms B was having difficulty because of the late 
payments being continually added to her account.
The rules and guidance of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
obliged NewDay to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) 5.3.1G it states:
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences.
NewDay said it cant say that the reasons Ms B was in arrears in, for example, 
December 2018, was as a result of a credit limit increase which had taken place in 
January 2015. It said it wasnt evident the credit limit increase was the reason Ms Bs 
account periodically entered arrears after January 2015. But NewDay has accepted it 
made Ms Bs financial situation worse. Im persuaded a consequence of this would 
be that Ms B likely would, and in fact did, have difficulty making payments. This then 
led to adverse markers being placed on her credit file.
 
NewDay said it should not have offered Ms B any credit limit increase in December 
2014, due to four consecutive late payments previously, and Im satisfied that the 
markers on her credit file after January 2015 are an adverse consequence of 
NewDay increasing that limit.
Putting things right
In order to put things right NewDay should remove all adverse data that was recorded on Ms 
Bs credit file from 20 January 2015. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua must put 
things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman