DRN-1281152
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave her 
loans she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
Mr Lender gave Miss W five loans between November 2015 and February 2017. 
Heres more information about these loans:
Loan    Date Taken     Date Repaid    Instalments      Amount           Highest Repayment
1          12/11/2015      28/01/2016         3                    £160.00                       £76.37
2          07/02/2016      28/06/2016         5                   £200.00                       £74.56
3          01/07/2016      28/09/2016         3                   £280.00                       £153.81
4          15/10/2016      27/01/2017         3                  £200.00                       £137.06
5          16/02/2017      28/06/2017         4                   £200.00                       £112.40
 
Miss W said that if Mr Lender had done proper checks it wouldve seen that she had become 
stuck in a cycle of borrowing from other payday lenders just to pay for necessities as most of 
her pay went towards repaying loans.
Our adjudicator thought that there wasnt enough information to say that loans 1 to 3 
shouldnt have been provided. But he felt that by loan 4, Miss Ws borrowing history should 
have alerted Mr Lender to the fact that she was having problems managing her money and it 
shouldnt have given her any further loans. He set out the steps he said Mr Lender should 
take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment of Miss Ws fourth loan 
application. It told us about the affordability and credit checks that it carried out before the 
loan was provided. Mr Lender said that based on the information it gathered, the loan was 
affordable for Miss W  particularly bearing in mind that loan 4 was a smaller amount than 
loan 3. So it didnt agree to uphold the complaint about loan 4. But it did offer to uphold 
Miss Ws complaint about loan 5.
We passed this offer on to Miss W. But as it fell short of what our adjudicator was 
recommending, Miss W didnt feel this went far enough to put things right for her.
So the complaint comes to me for a final decision.What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans - not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give Miss W the first three 
loans on the basis of the information it had recorded about her, including her income and outgoings. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for 
Mr Lender to agree to lend. 
As Miss W has said shes happy with our adjudicators recommendation overall, I dont think 
that I need to say more about loans 1  3.
Looking at Miss Ws borrowing pattern I can see that she asked to take out loan 4 just over 
two weeks after she repaid loan 3.
And this followed a track record that Mr Lender could see of Miss W borrowing quickly after 
repaying previous loans  Miss W took out loan 2 within ten days of paying loan 1, and loan 
3 just three days after paying loan 2. 
Ive taken into account that loan 4 was for less than the previous loan  but it was still more 
than shed started out borrowing from Mr Lender, and a substantial amount for Miss W to 
borrow. 
By now Miss W had already paid back loans of £160, £200 and £280  and she was asking 
to borrow £200 for a second time by loan 4.
This would suggest that she was having problems managing her money and couldnt afford 
to pay back what she had borrowed without borrowing again. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that it was likely Miss W would be 
able sustainably to repay loan 4, or any further loans and it shouldnt have provided this 
loan, or any further loans to her. 
So Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4 and 5, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything already refunded.
 
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
 
C) Pay Miss W the total of A plus B.
 
D) Remove any adverse information Mr Lender put on Miss Ws credit file in relation to loans 
4 and 5. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold Miss Ws complaint about loans 4 and 5 and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman