DRN-1790063
 
The complaint
Ms K complains she was mis-sold a 'Scottish Bond' by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society 
Limited.
What happened
Ms K took out the bond in November 2000. It was a 10-year, with profits endowment policy 
to which she made monthly contributions of £25. In November 2004 she surrendered the 
policy early, receiving back just over £900 having by that point paid in around £1,200. 
She made a complaint to Scottish Friendly about the bond in 2019, saying that she'd been 
very disappointed with its performance and was unhappy that alternative options hadn't been 
considered. 
Scottish Friendly didn't uphold the complaint as it didn't consider it had been at fault. It 
explained that the bond had been sold without any advice through 'direct marketing', which 
meant Ms K would've completed an application form having read the information provided in 
the bond's 'key features' document. Scottish Friendly noted that within the wealth of 
information included in this document, there was a clear warning of the risks of surrendering 
the bond during its early years; that the bondholder might get back less than they'd paid in. 
Ms K referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Scottish Friendly had done. He was satisfied the sale of the bond had not 
been advised and the risks associated with it, and other features, had been properly 
explained in the associated documentation. 
Ms K didn't accept this, saying that her calculations showed it would've been impossible for 
the bond to ever make a profit. She said she felt that the information provided to her at the 
outset constituted advice as it was the same information as a salesperson would've 
provided. Further, she had regularly been advised to retain the bond by staff over the 
phone when she questioned its performance. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I'm satisfied Ms K was not given any advice to start the bond and did so as a result of 
a personal decision having reviewed the information provided by Scottish Friendly. I note 
what she's said about the provision of written information effectively being the same as if 
she'd had a meeting with an adviser. But if she'd been given financial advice in the formal 
sense this would've involved an adviser gathering information about her needs and circumstances and making a personal recommendation that he or she considered 
suitable for Ms K. It's clear that didn't happen in this case.
As no advice was provided to Ms K, Scottish Friendly's responsibility was limited to providing 
her with clear information about the bond and how it worked, so she could make her 
decision. I'm satisfied Scottish Friendly did this and highlighted the risks associated with 
the investment. In doing so it made clear the bond was intended to be held for 10 years and 
that, although it could be surrendered earlier, this would be likely to result in the bondholder 
receiving back less than had been paid in. This is what happened when Ms K surrendered 
her bond after only four years. 
I appreciate Ms K says that she only surrendered the bond because it was apparent to her it 
could never make a return. But I don't think this was a reasonable conclusion to reach in 
2004, particularly not when the bond had only been held for less than half its intended term 
and in light of the warning given about early surrender. 
Scottish Friendly has confirmed that if Ms K had continued with the bond, she would've 
received a return on her total investment. I understand why she might be loath to accept this 
- viewing it as the business using hindsight - but I see no reason to doubt Scottish Friendly's 
figures. The return it has said would've been achieved seems entirely in keeping with the 
typical, quite low, level of return this type of investment made over the period in question.
I note also Ms K's comments about her being persuaded to retain the bond in phone calls 
made to Scottish Friendly. Unfortunately, given the time that's elapsed, there are no 
recordings available to support this. But in any event, I don't think this type of phone 
conversation would've been classed as advice, for the reasons noted above. And further, I 
think it's more likely than not that any comments relating to the bond's performance that 
suggested retaining it rather than surrendering it would've been prompted by the risk of loss 
associated with early surrender.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman