DRN-4133741
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her fee-paying Silver, Premier and 
Platinum packaged accounts in September 2008, May 2011 and July 2012 respectively.
Mrs S has given a number of reasons why she says that they were mis-sold. These include 
that she was not given the option of a fee-free account and she was led to believe that she 
needed to upgrade her account to obtain an overdraft. Mrs S says that she didnt understand 
what she was agreeing to and says that she didnt need the benefits provided by the 
accounts.
What happened
Lloyds explained that Mrs S had complained too late about the sale of the Silver and Premier 
accounts for our service to be able to consider the complaint. Lloyds also concluded that the 
Platinum account had not been mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they too concluded that our service 
couldnt consider the sale of the Silver and Premier accounts, as the complaint about those 
sales had been made outside of the time limits that apply when using our service.
The adjudicator then went on to assess the sale of the Platinum account, and the adjudicator 
concluded that it hadnt been mis-sold.
Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about the sale of the Platinum account, 
so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As the adjudicator has already explained that our service is unable to consider Mrs Ss 
complaint about the sale of the Silver and Premier accounts, this decision will only address 
whether the Platinum account was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to conclude that the Platinum account was likely to have been mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
Ive started by considering whether Mrs S was given a fair choice. Prior to the sale of the 
Platinum account, I can see that Mrs S had held the Silver and Premier accounts and had 
downgraded her account to a fee-free account after each one. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
when Mrs S agreed to the Platinum account, she was fully aware that she didnt need to 
have a fee-paying account and that fee-free alternatives were available to her. 
I can also see from the evidence provided that, prior to the sale of the Platinum account 
(when Mrs Ss account was a standard fee-free account) Mrs S already had an agreed 
overdraft limit of £1,500. As such Im also satisfied that Mrs S was aware that she didnt 
need a fee-paying account to have an overdraft on her account either.
As such, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mrs S was given a fair choice 
when the Platinum account was sold to her.
When Lloyds sold Mrs S the Platinum account, it was sold on an advised basis. This meant 
that Lloyds was required to ensure that the Platinum account was a good fit for Mrs S 
circumstances at the time.
In July 2012, the Platinum account cost £17 per month and provided benefits such as family 
worldwide travel insurance, enhanced levels of breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance 
and card protection insurance. It also included benefits such as a £250 interest free overdraft 
facility  with preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances above that amount (up to the 
agreed limit). It also provided other benefits such as access to better interest rates on 
savings accounts.
Based on the evidence provided, it seems that around July 2012, Mrs S drove a vehicle, had 
a mobile phone and occasionally travelled abroad (there is evidence she did so shortly after 
the upgrade took place). Therefore, based on what I have seen, it does appear that Mrs S 
mayve been able to make use of the benefits provided by the account. Furthermore, I can 
see that Mrs S increased her overdraft limit around the time of the sale. So I think its likely 
that she agreed to the account so that she could take advantage of the overdraft benefits 
that it provided as well.
As such, taking everything into account, I think that the recommendation was not 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
As well as making sure that the account was a good fit for Mrs S circumstances, Lloyds also 
had to ensure that Mrs S was given the important information about the account, so that she 
understood what it was she was agreeing to.
Mrs S has said that she was made aware of what the monthly fee for the account was. And 
looking at the documents from the point of sale, it does appear as though the benefits of the 
account were discussed with Mrs S in some detail too. So overall, I think that Mrs S agreed 
to the sale with a good appreciation of what the account cost; what benefits it came with; and 
that ultimately, if she didnt want it, she was aware she didnt have to agree to it and couldve 
continued with her existing fee-free account instead.
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave Mrs S all of the important information about the account during 
the sale. But that said, Ive not seen anything that makes me think that she wouldve been 
put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given even more information about it.
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with changes to Mrs Ss 
circumstances over time, Mrs S may now feel that the account has been poor value for 
money, and she now regrets agreeing to it. But that doesnt mean that Lloyds was acting 
incorrectly or unfairly by selling the Platinum account to her when it did. 
So based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to conclude that the Platinum account was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman