DRN-4409851
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the response from Sainsburys Bank Plc when he raised a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 about the quality of a used car.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr A bought this car at a distance after seeing it on a video provided by the 
supplying dealer (who Ill refer to as W). The car was five years old with about 55,000 miles 
on the clock and cost over £13,000. Mr A paid a deposit of £200 using his Sainsburys Bank 
credit card. Shortly after delivery, in early August 2022, Mr A complained to W about chips 
scattered across the front and on some doors, worn brake discs, a screeching noise and he 
hadnt received the V5. W said the V5 would arrive shortly, brake discs had adequate wear 
left, the noise was probably due to the car being left standing for a while and the exterior 
condition was in keeping with the cars age and mileage. W also suggested that Mr A could 
take the car to a local garage and have any issues rectified under a warranty supplied with 
the car.
Mr A didnt think that was fair. He says the salesperson told him any bodywork issues would
be sorted out by Ws bodyshop before delivery and the V5 was subsequently registered at
the wrong address with a spelling error which caused issues with a parking permit and the
DVLA. In mid-August, he had the car checked by an independent mechanic who found the
brake discs were satisfactory but the car had nine diagnostic faults, the fuel filter hadnt been
changed for a number of years and the lower front grill was pushed in on the passenger 
side. 
Mr A relayed these findings to W and asked for things to be fixed or he would reject the
car. After some back and forth, W agreed to provide a refund and asked Mr A to return the 
car to the dealership, which was located some distance away. Mr A didnt think that was fair 
and he contacted Sainsburys Bank (in September 2022) asking for a refund (under section 
75) of the purchase price (£13,600) plus his out of pocket expenses (£144 for the condition
report) - and compensation.
Sainsburys Bank asked for more details initially  including copies of the sale paperwork,
the warranty and an independent inspection report. It required this information by post which 
Mr A found inconvenient but he supplied the relevant paperwork. Then, in November 2022, 
Sainsburys Bank rejected his complaint as it didnt think the right arrangements were in 
place for a section 75 claim. Mr A didnt think that was fair and he referred the matter to our 
service. In the meantime, Sainsburys Bank agreed to re-open the matter (in February 2023) 
and asked Mr A to obtain another, more detailed, experts report. He didnt think that was 
reasonable - in view of the evidence already provided and the time taken to deal with the 
matter so far. Sainsburys Bank paid just under £150 to compensate Mr A for complaint 
handling issues but it didnt accept his section 75 claim.
One of our investigators considered the evidence and she recommended Mr As complaint
should be upheld. She was satisfied that the salesperson said (in a pre-sale video) there
would be no dints, scratches or anything like that at all and, whilst the independent 
inspector considered the body work was in fair condition, he found the lower front grill was 
pushed in on the passenger side - and photographs Mr A supplied seem to show the same 
thing. She found the car was not as described and Mr A had a short term (30 day) right to 
reject under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). She was satisfied hed emailed W within 
that time asking to reject the car and she thought it was unreasonable of W to expect him to 
arrange and pay for its return in the circumstances. 
To put things right, she recommended that Sainsburys Bank should arrange for the car to be 
collected at no additional cost to Mr A, rework his credit card account as if the £200 deposit 
transaction never took place and refund the cost of the car - £13,600 (plus interest) - along 
with the £114 Mr A paid for the independent inspection report. She didnt think Sainsburys 
Bank was responsible for any loss caused by the V5 errors and she found the compensation 
paid already, for failings in the way Mr As complaint was handled, seemed fair.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In
summary, Sainsburys Bank says its not disputing there was a breach of contract but theres 
nothing to support this in the inspection report and the photographs of the front grill. It points 
out the independent technician found all parts were in working condition except that the 
very lowest front grill [is] pushed in on the passenger side but didnt call this a dent or 
indicate how significant the damage is. Sainsburys Bank considers the photo of the grill that 
Mr A supplied is inconclusive, it was reasonable to request another experts report (which it 
offered to pay for) and theres insufficient evidence to uphold the section 75 claim. It thinks 
Mr As complaint was handled fairly overall and its unreasonable to require it collect the car 
 as theres no facility in its business framework to do this. It suggests that Mr A should sell 
the vehicle and any refund could be discounted accordingly.
Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to uphold the complaint but my 
reasons were a bit different to the investigators and I was minded to reach a slightly different 
outcome. I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings 
and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision so I issued 
a provisional decision on 22 September 2023. Ive set out below (in italics) what I decided 
provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final decision. 
my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im obliged to take relevant law into account when I make my decision. Broadly speaking,
section 75 says a borrower, like Mr A, may be able to bring an equal claim under an
agreement with a supplier (W here) against a credit provider (Sainsburys Bank in this case)
where theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I think section 75 is relevant
here but I want to make it clear that Im not deciding liability under section 75 - only a court
can do that. In this decision, Im considering whether Sainsburys Bank has provided a fair
and reasonable response to Mr As complaint.
Im satisfied that the crux of Mr As claim is that this car was misrepresented and/or not as
described when he agreed to buy it. There seems to be no dispute that he purchased the car
at a distance based (as far as I can see) on a video W supplied and assurances made in
pre-sale discussions. Ive watched the video and Im satisfied that the salesperson states
that the car was in very nice condition for its age with no dents, scratches or anything like
that at all. Our investigator thought this was too vague to be relied upon but, for the reasons
Ill explain below in more detail, I minded to disagree - in these particular circumstances.The CRA says this car should have matched its description (section 11) and, looking at
photos Mr A provided of the car, I dont think it did. I can see very obvious chips in several
places (such as those just over the petrol cap). I cant see these chips on the video footage
W sent to Mr A  where the cars exterior was filmed from more than a metre or so away - so
I cant reasonably find Mr A accepted this damage was present when he agreed to buy the
car. I think a reasonable person would consider the chips visible here fall within the
salespersons reference in the video to no dents or scratches or anything like that. And its
understandable Mr A was disappointed with the condition of the paintwork (among other
things) when the car was delivered.
Mr A told us he bought this car to give to a family member to celebrate a special life event
and he told the salesperson about this at the time. I think thats likely to be true  Ive seen
an email he sent the salesperson where he references this and asks if they can supply a
bow to put around the vehicle. Ive also seen several emails (sent pre-delivery) where Mr A
refers to the condition of the paintwork  in one email he states that he was assured by the
salesperson that Ws bodyshop would check the vehicle and any chips and scuffs (which
he hadnt seen) would be removed before delivery. Ive seen nothing to suggest that W
responded to contradict this  which I would have reasonably have expected if Mr A had
misunderstood things.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr A probably made it clear in the pre-
sale discussions he had with the salesperson that the condition of this cars exterior was
a key factor in his decision to purchase. I think its more likely than the condition of the cars
exterior was misrepresented  in that Mr A was led to believe the car would be free from any
dents, scratches, chips or scuffs on delivery - and this misrepresentation induced him to
purchase this particular car. I consider this conclusion is supported by Mr As actions after he 
received the vehicle - he contacted W shortly after delivery to make his dissatisfaction clear 
and he hasnt gifted the car as intended or driven it since.
I can see that W replied to Mr A at the time suggesting the car was in reasonable condition
for its age and mileage. That may be the case - but Im satisfied this isnt the standard Mr A
was led to expect by the salesperson and what was said and shown to him the pre-sale
video. Taken with the damage to the front grill identified by the independent technician, Im
minded to find the presence of multiple chips on the cars exterior mean it did not meet the
description provided and its condition was misrepresented.
I think its fairly clear that Mr A became more concerned about the quality of the car after he
had it inspected and the independent technician identified several additional issues. I dont
have enough evidence to reach a conclusion as to the seriousness of these  the faults
identified by the diagnostic check, for example, may be historic codes that simply werent
cleared. But, given Im minded to find this car was misrepresented, for the reasons set out
above, I dont think I need to make any firm findings about those issues in this decision.
Under the CRA a consumer like Mr A has a short term right to reject goods within 30 days in
this situation (sections 19, 20 and 22 refer). Im satisfied that Mr A contacted W within this
time. It looks as if he would have accepted repairs then - if W had undertaken these within a
reasonable time  which seems reasonable. But, W suggested instead that Mr A should take
the car to a garage near him and have it repaired under the warranty it came with. I find it 
understandable that Mr A was reluctant to do this, in these particular circumstances. Im 
satisfied it would not only have added to his inconvenience but, given W had already said
the car was supplied in line with the level of quality required under the warranty, its difficult
to see why the relevant cover would have extended to put right the damage in question.
I consider Mr A made it fairly clear to W within 30 days of delivery (in an email dated 23August 2022) that he wanted to reject the car if W didnt arrange repairs within a reasonable
time - and I think W understood that. I can see the dealer responded, a few days later,
stating if you are not happy.please return the vehicle, along with all documents to our
branchand a refund of the purchase price will be provided. I appreciate Mr A and W may
have been at cross purposes here, to some extent. I can see W refers to the 14 day right to
cancel under distance selling legislation and seems to suggest it would extend this time as a
goodwill gesture - whereas Mr A was, I think, seeking to rely on his rights under the CRA.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that Mr A had the short term right to reject this
vehicle under the CRA and he sought to exercise that within the relevant timescale. The
CRA says once this happens the trader should provide a refund and the consumer has a
duty to make the goods available for collection  unless theres an agreement for the
consumer to return the goods. Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any such 
agreement here. In any event, the CRA goes on to say Whether or not the consumer has a 
duty to return the rejected goods, the trader must bear any reasonable costs of returning 
them, other than any costs incurred by the consumer in returning the goods in person to the 
place where the consumer took physical possession of them.
In light of my findings above, I consider W should reasonably have accepted Mr As rejection
of this vehicle and arranged to collect the car at no further cost to him. And Im minded to
agree with the investigator that Sainsburys Bank should arrange to collect the car now,
refund the total purchase price of £13,600 (including the deposit) and rework Mr As account
as if the £200 deposit payment was never made.
I have thought about what Sainsburys Bank says about its business framework meaning its
unreasonable to require it to collect this car - but I cant see why the bank couldnt sub-
contract this to a suitable third party. Im aware that Sainsburys Bank has been required to
take similar steps in other decisions made by this service and it seems to have been able to
do so without too much difficulty. Furthermore I dont think its reasonable to put Mr A to the
additional inconvenience of arranging the sale of this car - which also has the potential to 
lead to new points of dispute around the cost achieved, for example.
Mr A says the car hasnt been used since it was delivered so I havent considered whether it
would be reasonable to reduce the refund to reflect any usage - subject to confirmation of
the cars current mileage. I think it was reasonable for Mr A to obtain the independent
inspection report in these circumstances. I consider it is fair that Sainsburys Bank refund the
cost of this and the bank should also pay interest on any refunds at 8% simple a year from
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded I can fairly hold Sainsburys Bank liable for the
issues surrounding the V5 paperwork. And I think the compensation Sainsburys Bank has
paid already for poor complaint handling seems reasonable overall so, on the current
evidence, I cant reasonably require it to do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments (or evidence that I hadnt seen before) by 11 October 2023 and Id review all the 
evidence available after that and make my final decision.
Mr A accepted my provisional findings but he feels Sainsburys Bank delayed matters 
needlessly which increased his distress, inconvenience and financial losses. He says hes been anxious and depressed as a result of what happened and hes out of pocket - given 
inflationary pressures mean the real value of any refund is reduced and the car may have 
damaged his driveway its been parked there so long. He also mentions he had to pay a 
DVSA fine as the car wasnt insured for a time (because he didnt expect it to take long to 
sort things out) and he wasnt aware of the need declare the vehicle SORN  which he 
couldnt do, in any event, due to the V5 errors. In addition, he refers to issues with a 
separate car insurance policy that he took out with Sainsburys Bank. 
Im afraid its not within my remit in this decision to comment on any problems Mr A may 
have had with his insurance policy. Its open to him to raise this matter with Sainsburys 
Bank and, if hes unhappy with the response he receives, he may be able to bring another 
complaint to this service. 
I realise Mr A feels Sainsburys didnt do enough to assist when he made his section 75 
claim. I cant fairly criticise the bank for asking Mr A to provide some additional information 
however and I dont think theres enough evidence for me to fairly hold the bank liable for 
any damage to his driveway, the V5 errors and/or the impact of inflation. I think the 
compensation paid already seems fair and I cant reasonably require Sainsburys Bank to 
pay more in all of the circumstances. 
Sainsburys Bank has disagreed with my provisional conclusions. It said (in summary) the 
section 75 claim was made on the grounds the car wasnt delivered in the condition 
promised and Mr As main concerns relate to exterior bodywork, which he found to be worse 
than expected as it should have been without any chips, dents, or scratches. Sainsburys 
Bank doesnt think a five year old vehicle, which had travelled over 55,000 miles, would 
reasonably be expected to be free from any scratches, dents, defects. And it considers 
theres no evidence to show Mr A was sold the car on the basis it was in exceptional or 
impeccable or like new condition - which seems to be what he expected. 
Sainsburys Bank thinks the car was in reasonable condition for its age and mileage - the 
independent inspector found it was in working condition and classed as good with one 
exception relating to fair bodywork  the very lowest front grill pushed in on the passenger 
side and there are no breakdowns or significant faults. It says things like the fuel filter not 
being changed in some time, dont mean the car was unfit for purpose or unroadworthy. And, 
in any event, the car was sold with a warranty that Mr A didnt use and the dealer offered a 
refund. The bank feels theres not enough evidence to support rejection on the basis of what 
was promised/how the car was described as opposed to what was delivered and its possible 
the bodywork was damaged after delivery. 
I think Ive addressed most of the points raised by Sainsburys Bank in my provisional 
decision. Ive explained already why Im satisfied that Mr A was led to believe the bodywork 
would have no dents, scratches or anything like that at all. And, taken with the damage to 
the front grill identified by the independent technician, I consider the presence of multiple 
chips on the exterior mean the car did not meet the description provided and it was 
misrepresented. 
Sainsburys Bank also asked if Im satisfied that the right arrangements were in place for Mr 
A to be able to bring this sort of claim. I can see Sainsburys Bank considered whether the 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required under section 75 was present here earlier this 
year. Having taken legal advice, the bank appeared to accept that it was and Ive seen 
nothing to persuaded me otherwise.   
Nothing thats been said or sent to us has caused me to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that the exterior condition was of 
particular importance to Mr A when he decided to buy this car and I think he made that clear to W at the time. I find the car was not as described on delivery. Im satisfied that Mr A 
reported relevant issues very soon after he received the car. Hes now supplied a picture of 
the odometer that indicates it currently has just over 55,300 miles on the clock. I think this 
supports his evidence that the vehicle hasnt been used and Im not persuaded its likely the 
relevant damage occurred after delivery.  
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view this car was misrepresented and there 
was a breach of contract, in that it was not delivered as described. Im satisfied Mr A had the 
short term right to reject the vehicle in the circumstances and he contacted W to exercise 
that within the relevant time. I consider W should reasonably have arranged to collect the car 
at no further cost to Mr A then - in line with the obligations set out under the CRA  and 
Sainsburys Bank should now take the steps set out below to put things right. 
Sainsburys Bank has pointed out that some paperwork will need to be completed in order 
for the car to be collected and this will require the cooperation of Mr A. The bank asked me 
to include a requirement to this effect in my decision. Its a matter for Mr A if he wishes to 
accept my decision and I cant require him (or any third party) to take any steps in particular. 
Mr A has indicated however that hes keen to seen an end to this matter. And, if he accepts 
my decision, he will doubtless appreciate that hell need to liaise with Sainsburys Bank and 
arrange for any necessary paperwork to be completed to enable the car to be collected. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Sainburys Bank 
Plc to:-
1. arrange to collect the car from Mr A, at no additional cost to him;
2. rework Mr As credit card account as if the £200 deposit payment was never made. If 
this leads to a credit balance then this balance should be refunded to Mr A with the 
addition of 8% interest from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement; 
3. refund the balance Mr A paid for the car (£13,400) plus the £114 he paid for the 
inspection report and pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple interest a year from 
the date Mr A made the relevant payments until settlement; and 
4. (if it hasnt already done so) pay Mr A £150 compensation for his associated distress 
and inconvenience.
If Sainsburys Bank considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman