DRN-2095785
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited turned down his claims under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G contacted Lloyds on three occasions to make insurance claims. Each of the claims 
were turned down. However, one of those claims, relating to a toilet, was initially accepted 
but then declined.
Mr G complained to Lloyds. Lloyds replied and offered him £350 compensation for the claim 
it accepted and then declined.
Mr G remained unhappy with this and so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably in turning down all three 
claims and that the compensation offered was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr G accepted that two of the claims had been appropriately turned down, but he asked for 
the claim that had been accepted and then declined to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
Im now considering the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all three of the claims submitted by Mr G, but will focus my attention on the 
one that remains in dispute. However, having looked at the circumstances of the other two 
claims, I think that it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline them and that it did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Looking at the remaining claim, this related to issues with a toilet that had a blockage. Mr G 
contacted Lloyds shortly before Christmas to make a claim. After some initial investigation, 
Lloyds accepted the claim. However, while one of Lloyds contractors was carrying out some 
work, it identified that the problem with the toilet was caused by an issue with the way the 
pipes had been attached to each other. As this was faulty workmanship, Lloyds then 
declined the claim. This was about a month after Mr G first contacted Lloyds about the claim.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim. Having 
looked at this, I think that it was. When Mr G initially made contact, Lloyds agreed to 
investigate the circumstances of the claim. However, given that the issue involved 
investigating drains, I dont think it would have been immediately clear what the likely cause 
was and therefore whether it was covered by the policy. So I think that it was reasonable that 
Lloyds investigated the case of the issue with the toilet and that when it identified the issue 
with the pipes that it only then turned down the claim, as faulty workmanship wasnt covered 
by the policy.
Im aware that Mr G is concerned that Lloyds might have turned down the claim due to the 
potential costs involved with dealing with it. But I have seen no evidence of this or that it 
turned down the claim for any reason other than identifying that the cause was faulty 
workmanship.
Ive also thought about how long it took for Lloyds to turn down the claim. Lloyds promptly 
sent a contractor to look at the initial problem but then needed to send another contractor to 
deal with the underlying issue. I can see from the claim notes that Lloyds continued to keep 
under review whether the claim was covered. It did then accept the claim, but shortly 
afterwards the contractor found the cause of the problem. Looking at what happened, I can 
see that when Lloyds decided that the claim wasnt covered, it promptly told Mr G. Although 
this whole process took about a month, one of the reasons for this was the Christmas period, 
which meant that a contractor couldnt attend to do the follow up work as quickly as it might 
have otherwise. This wasnt ideal, but I dont think that it affects whether it was appropriate 
for Lloyds to turn down the claim. It was reasonable for Lloyds to investigate whether the 
problem with the toilet was covered by the policy and when it found that it wasnt, to turn 
down the claim.
Ive also considered the compensation that Lloyds offered Mr G. I can understand that Mr 
Gs expectations had been built up that his claim would be dealt with and that it would have 
been better if Mr Gs claim had been turned down earlier. However, looking at the full 
circumstances of this case, I think that Lloyds offer of £350 was appropriate and is in line 
with what this service would have awarded. 
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further 
beyond paying Mr G the £350 it previously offered if it hasnt already done so. Mr G also told 
our investigator that Lloyds took the excess for this claim but didnt refund it. So Lloyds 
should also ensure that it resolves any outstanding issues with the excess.
Im aware that Mr G is also unhappy about the increase in his premiums. However, that is a 
separate issue and he would need to raise a new complaint in order for that to be looked at.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited is required to: 
pay Mr G the £350 it previously offered if it hasnt already done so.
resolve any outstanding issues with the excess paid for the toilet-related claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman