DRN-2351738
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) delayed in sending out a voluntary 
termination pack and the car developed a fault before Mr S could hand it back.
What happened
Mr S took out a conditional sale agreement with VF to finance a used car in April 2016. 
Around 10 October 2019 Mr S contacted VF and advised that he wanted to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement and asked for the relevant forms to be sent to him. 
The forms were not sent because of an error by VF and Mr S asked again around two week 
later for the voluntary termination forms to be sent. Mr S received the voluntary termination 
pack via email on 25 October 2019. On 29 October 2019 Mr S confirmed that he wanted to 
proceed with the voluntary termination. Later that day the car failed to start. It was recovered 
to a garage where it was found that the timing belt had snapped. The engine oil service was 
11,000 miles overdue and the engine oil was below the minimum. It was deemed 
uneconomical to repair and it was returned as a non-runner under the voluntary termination.
On inspection of the car further areas of damage were noted and an invoice was sent by VF 
to Mr S for £2491 representing the damage to the car. Mr S complained and stated that if VF 
had issued the voluntary termination pack when he requested, then the car would not have 
failed during his ownership and he would not be responsible for the damage.
VF acknowledged that there was a delay with sending the forms and agreed to reduce the 
outstanding charges by £1000 leaving a total outstanding balance of £1491. Mr S wasnt 
happy with this response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought that VFs offer was fair and 
reasonable. They thought that as Mr S continued to use the car after requesting the 
voluntary termination paperwork it wasnt fair to hold VF responsible for all the damage 
caused.
Mr S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that it was not realistic to expect him not to 
use the car until it was collected as that would require him to maintain 2 cars. Mr S said that 
he had no reason to suspect that there would be a problem with the car and VFs delay 
should not be a reason that he has to bear the cost of the damage. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute and are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail in this decision. Instead I will focus on giving reasons for my decision. If I havent 
commented on every piece of evidence, it doesnt mean I havent taken it into account.
Mr S says that if he had received the voluntary termination paperwork on time, he would 
have handed the car back with no engine fault. I have seen an inspection report which 
shows there were other areas of damage to the car amounting to £606 outside the issue with 
the engine. 
Mr S continued to drive the car after he requested voluntary termination and so had the 
benefit of the car. I accept Mr Ss point that he was paying for the car and I want to make it 
clear that I am not blaming him for using it. 
Neither Mr S nor VF knew that the car was about to fail and the delay in sending the 
paperwork was because of a human error not because VF were attempting to frustrate Mr 
Ss efforts to return the car.
This delay, as well as Mr Ss continued use of the car meant that the car was not handed 
back before the fault occurred. I am not persuaded that the delay in sending the paperwork 
means that VF should bear all the costs associated with the fault. I agree with the 
investigator that the timing of the fault is very unfortunate, and I can understand why Mr S 
feels it is unfair. However, the fault occurred during the period that Mr S was responsible for 
the car and under the agreement he is required to return it in good condition.
I think that VFs offer to reduce the amount outstanding by £1000 to reflect the delay in 
sending the paperwork is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I cant ask it to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman