DRN-3144353
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he purchased with the assistance of finance from Oodle Financial 
Services Limited (OFS) had a hidden mileage discrepancy which was not disclosed to him 
and the car was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr B purchased a used car with the assistance of finance in May 2019. At the point of 
purchase the car had covered 72,000 miles and cost £10,630. In April 2021 Mr B 
complained that the car had a mileage discrepancy when he looked at the mileage recorded 
on historical MOT inspections. 
In September 2016 the mileage was recorded as 52,067, in September 2017 the mileage 
was recorded as 25,913 and in September 2018 the mileage was recorded as 68,514. Mr B 
was concerned that the car had been clocked and that this discrepancy may cause issues 
for him in the future if the car were to be sold or involved in an accident. Further, Mr B stated 
that the timing belt chain had never been replaced on the car, which should have been done 
at 60,000 miles and before the car was supplied to him. Mr B also said there was an issue 
with the crank/camshaft sensor and the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
OFS didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into the complaint and thought that OFS hadnt done anything wrong. 
They thought that the MOT mileage discrepancy was a typing error rather than an attempt at 
clocking and that this information was available to Mr B at the point of sale. They thought 
that the mechanical issues that had arisen with the car were likely to be as a result of wear 
and tear because of the distance Mr B had been able to cover and the time that had passed 
before the faults presented. 
OFS agreed to replace the timing chain and the investigator considered that was a fair offer 
in the circumstances. Mr B suggested a counter-offer of removal of the defaults on the credit 
agreement and an authorised note to confirm the mileage discrepancy but OFS didnt accept 
this. Both Mr B and OFS asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr B is concerned about the mileage discrepancy on the car. It raises a 
suspicion that the car has been clocked and the mileage has been reduced to make the car 
appear to have travelled fewer miles and therefore be worth more. OFS offered to pay for a 
check to confirm that the car had not been clocked but it appears that Mr B didnt take up 
that offer. Looking at the mileage history, it seems clear to me that the recording of the 
mileage in September 2017 is likely to be a human error. The mileage appears to be 
corrected by the next MOT in September 2018 and is in line with the previous mileage. 
Otherwise the car would have covered around 43,000 in twelve months which is unlikely. 
This information was also available to Mr B before he bought the car. 
I sympathise with Mr B and I do understand why he is frustrated that the information wasnt 
specifically disclosed to him at the time of purchase. However, I cant say that he was misled 
as it appears to me that the mileage on the car was correct when he bought it. I cant say 
that the car is devalued or unsaleable because of this issue and a review of all the recorded 
mileage for the car suggests it is an error and not a deliberate attempt to reduce the mileage. 
There is no evidence that the car has been clocked. 
For these reasons I cant say that the car was mis-sold or misrepresented to Mr B. I have 
taken account of what Mr B says about the relevant law but as explained by the investigator, 
this service looks at what is fair and reasonable. Although I have taken account of the law, I 
dont think that it is fair to say that Mr B should be allowed to reject the car. Mr B got a car 
that had done the mileage that was recorded on the odometer. 
As a result of the mileage issue Mr B was understandably concerned that the car had other 
faults. Mr B said that the timing chain had never been replaced, even though this is 
recommended by the manufacturer at 60,000 miles. The car was sold without a full service 
history and so it is unclear what the state of the timing chain was at the point of sale. I cant 
be sure that the fault was there or developing as Mr B didnt raise it until April 2021 after he 
had travelled around 18,000 miles. Similar considerations apply to the sensor fault. 
It is likely that used cars will require replacement parts more often than new cars and so 
what is fair and reasonable in terms of durability is different depending on the age and 
mileage and the price paid. Applying this to Mr Bs complaint, I cant say that the faults the 
car has now were there or developing at the point of sale or that the car isnt sufficiently 
durable given the age and mileage and the use that Mr B has had from the car. 
In all the circumstances I think that OFSs offer to repair the timing chain is reasonable in all 
the circumstances and I cant ask it to do any more.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman