DRN-3247395
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited through Homeserve. She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her plumbing and drainage insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Aviva are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Miss M made a claim under her plumbing and drainage insurance policy over a number of 
years. She took out a policy through Homeserve but with another insurer between June 
2015 and 2016 which lapsed. Miss M then took out another policy through Homeserve but 
with Aviva in August 2017. And this complaint relates to issues Miss M had in relation to a 
leak that was ongoing at her property from around 2017. 
When Miss M complained to this service about this our investigator undertook a detailed 
review of her complaint which was put forward by her representative. She identified a 
number of attendances by Aviva in which she felt it could have done a lot more to get to the 
bottom of the issue. But she did feel the source of the leak and possible damp problem 
(which Aviva wasnt responsible for) wasnt completely clear, and that Miss M could have 
done more to mitigate her position  repair her property and ensure the damp problem was 
resolved. So, she suggested Aviva should pay half the costs Miss M had incurred to date, 
and in looking to put things right now, by paying 50% of the cost of repairing Miss Ms 
property (including new carpet, decoration and re-plastering totalling £1459.80) and pay half 
of the survey costs (£700) as that is what Miss M paid. And she also recommended Aviva 
pay £200 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Both sides accepted the investigators suggestion and some up to date costings were gained 
by Miss M in looking to finalise the mediation of this complaint. But Miss M changed her 
mind. She wanted all her costs paid and thought that the level of compensation should be 
increased. She said she felt the leak dated back to 2015 but our investigator highlighted that 
if this was the case then the matter would fall to her previous insurer as opposed to Aviva. 
And so, as Miss M didnt agree with the position outlined by our investigator the matter has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
As our investigator has outlined if the leak commenced around 2015 and caused all the 
damage outlined here then that would be a matter for Miss Ms previous insurer. However, 
having considered the details provided I agree with the position outlined by our investigator 
in her initial view on this complaint, and has been accepted by Aviva from the time it first 
looked into the leak, that from the evidence provided there was a leak after this policy was 
taken out in 2017.
I know Miss M and her representative are of the opinion Aviva are responsible for all the 
damp problems they have faced. And that this all stems from a leak at the property that 
Aviva hasnt dealt with properly. But I dont feel there is sufficient evidence to support this 
position.
I agree that the inspections undertaken by Aviva were inadequate and it missed a leak noted 
in Miss Ms survey in 2017. And the re-routing of the pipework in 2019 could have been 
undertaken far earlier. The delays here clearly caused Miss M consequential loss, stress, 
and inconvenience. Although Aviva disputed that it was responsible for any part of this it 
seems to have accepted some responsibility in agreeing with the investigators assessment 
and proposed settlement  to pay a 50% contribution to the remedial works now needed to 
be carried out and to pay Miss Ms contribution towards the survey cost that was paid for 
jointly with the neighbouring property. 
However, I agree with our investigator that I think Miss M could have taken steps to mitigate 
the position she was in. And I cant be sure, from the evidence before me, that the damp 
problem (which isnt covered under the policy) isnt a significant contributing factor to the 
issues at Miss Ms property.
Given all of this, I agree the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances 
of this case, is for Aviva to pay a 50% contribution to the remedial works which are needed 
at the property in line with the quotes Miss M has gained. And to pay Miss M £200 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience its delay caused.
Finally, I note Miss Ms representative suffered because of the damp at the property which 
Im sorry to hear. However, as our investigator explained I can only award compensation in 
relation to the policy holder, Miss M.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to;
pay a 50% contribution to the cost of repairing Miss Ms property (re-plastering, 
flooring remedial works, redecoration and carpet costs) amounting to £1459.80;
pay Miss M half the cost of her survey report (£700), plus 8% simple interest from the 
time she paid for this to the date of settlement; and
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman