DRN-2036251
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) didnt properly 
collect his direct debit and didnt keep to an agreed arrangement to collect the arrears that 
built up on his account. 
What happened
Mr B entered into an agreement with MBFS to purchase a used car in August 2018. The 
monthly repayments of £376.34 were due on the 14 of each month. On the 14 July 2019 the 
direct debit collection was unsuccessful as the direct debit had been cancelled. On 5 August 
2019 Mr B provided MBFS with details of a new account for the direct debit to be taken from. 
Mr B also made a card payment to cover Julys instalment.
Mr B says that his bank details werent updated, and the new direct debit wasnt in place 
until October. Mr B made a manual payment for Augusts instalment via card on the 27 
September. Mr B said he would pay Septembers instalment in monthly instalments.  MBFS 
took the missing payment for September in full via direct debit on 11 October and then took 
the contractual repayment for October on 23 October 2019.
Mr B says that this has had a negative effect on his credit file and caused him difficulty in 
applying for credit. Mr B says he has not been given a satisfactory explanation about what 
has happened, and he doesnt think the MBFS has done enough to put matters right. Mr B 
wants to end his agreement.
MBFS upheld Mr Bs complaint and it offered Mr B £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
and agreed to remove any late repayment markers from Mr Bs credit file. Mr B didnt think 
that was enough.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They thought that MBFS had acted fairly and its 
offer to put matters right was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. They thought that 
although the issue with the direct debit was inconvenient, the money should have been 
available for MBFS in line with the terms of the agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and replied to say in summary that MBFS had tried to blame him for the 
problem and hadnt properly explained what had happened. He didnt think the offer was fair 
in the circumstances as he had spent many months trying to sort the matter out. He said that 
there had been a negative effect on his business and his credit rating together with the 
stress of dealing with this matter. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr Bs position and I can appreciate how frustrating it must have been to 
be continually calling and emailing the business to try and get the situation resolved. It isnt 
clear why the direct debit wasnt taken in July 2019, but I can see that Mr B took steps to 
bring his account up to date by making a manual payment on the 5 August 2019. Mr B also 
provided his new bank details at this time. 
I can see from the call notes and the notes disclosed by the business that Mr Bs bank 
details werent correctly processed by MBFS. This meant that the instalments due for August 
and September were not collected. I do appreciate Mr Bs frustration with MBFS when the 
direct debit was not reinstated in a timely way.
Mr B made a further card payment for Augusts instalment on 27 September 2019. MBFS 
confirmed in its final response letter that Mr B agreed with the collections team to make 
Septembers payment over a number of months. However, this was taken in full in October 
and then Octobers regular instalment was taken shortly afterwards. I can see that this would 
have been both frustrating and disruptive to Mr Bs finances.
MBFS recognised in its final response that this fell short of the customer service it would 
wish to provide. In recognition of these errors it offered Mr B £100 compensation. It further 
agreed to remove any late payment markers.
I think this is a fair and reasonable offer. I can appreciate why Mr B wants more but this 
service doesnt punish businesses for mistakes. I think that MBFS made a number of errors 
here that caused Mr B trouble and upset. I think that £100 is fair to reflect that trouble and 
upset. I think it would be disproportionate to allow Mr B to terminate his agreement. Re-
instating the direct debit was resolved within a relatively short period of time although I 
appreciate it was very stressful for Mr B at the time. MBFS has agreed to remove the late 
repayment markers and I agree with the Investigator that this is fair and reasonable as it 
doesnt reflect Mr Bs operation of his account.
In these circumstances I think that the offer made by MBFS is fair and reasonable.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay Mr B 
£100 and remove all the late payment markers from his credit file. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman