DRN-4417353
The complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited charged him interest on his loan account 
without telling him.
What happened
Mr C says he took out a loan with Everyday Lending and then agreed a payment plan with it. 
He says he was unaware he was charged interest on the agreement and says that has 
caused more debt. Mr C would like the interest refunded as well as compensation.
Everyday Lending says Mr C took out the loan in June 2018 and in December 2018 agreed 
a repayment plan with him. It says it reduced Mr Cs payments from over £200 to £20 a 
month and doesnt accept telling him there would not be any interest charged.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint but made clear 
she didnt have the call recording from 2018. The investigator didnt think Everyday Lending 
provided enough help to Mr C and so should refund any interest and charges.
Everyday Lending doesnt accept that view and following my request for information has 
provided the call recording. It also says no interest was charged from April 2019 in any 
event.
I asked Mr C for further information, and he says the interest and loan term were not 
discussed on the call. He says he wanted the loan repaid at the time when I asked him about 
the impact a default would have.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional view on this complaint and said that I dont uphold this complaint.
I explained that lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I could see that Mr C appeared to have been in financial difficulties in 2018 
although he hadnt given us the exact details of what took place. I listened carefully to the 
telephone call between the parties and was satisfied Mr C said he was still working and 
agreed to repay the loan at £20 a month until his circumstances changed. I was also 
satisfied that Everyday Lending told Mr C that his loan would, as a result of the reduced 
payment, be spread over a longer time period and that the interest rate would reduce.
So, I was satisfied that Everyday Lending did try and help Mr C and acted positively and 
sympathetically by accepting a reduced payment with a lower interest rate. I appreciated the 
key issue about this complaint was that Mr C said he wasnt told that he would still have to 
pay interest. But having listened to the call, I was satisfied he was told interest would 
continue to be charged.
I appreciated the investigator didnt have the benefit of the call recording and said Everyday 
Lending didnt do enough to help Mr C. I said I had thought about what else could have been 
done as it was clear Mr C was unable to repay the loan at the agreed rate and that no 
interest had been charged since April 2019 in any event. I thought the only realistic 
alternative if Mr C wanted all interest stopped on a longer-term basis would have been to 
default the account. And I couldnt see how that would have benefited Mr Cs position here 
as compared to what did happen.
Overall, I was satisfied Mr Cs loan term and interest were discussed when he called it in 
December 2018. I didnt think Mr C was charged interest from April 2019 in any event and 
was satisfied he owes Everyday Lending the money he borrowed. I thought it tried to help Mr 
C and it was difficult to see what else it could have done to assist Mr C. I said no doubt Mr C 
could explain what he thought Everyday Lending could have done to help him and what the 
up-to-date position is.  I also hoped Everyday Lending would provide copies of other call 
recordings or records of other discussions with Mr C about the loan as well as provide the 
updated position.
Neither side as replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the exact same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman