DRN-2200683
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given a guarantor loan of £2,000 by Buddy Loans in March 2018, to be paid in 36 
instalments of around £98 per month. The total amount to be repaid over the three-year term 
including in interest was £3,534.70. The loan has now been repaid in full and on time. 
Mr M says he thinks that if Buddy Loans had carried out proper checks on his application, it 
would have refused to lend to him because hed recently taken another larger loan and he 
couldnt afford both.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Buddy Loans should 
have lent to Mr M and asked it to put things right. Buddy Loans didnt agree with her 
assessment  Mr M did  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website  including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. Ive 
considered this approach when deciding this complaint. 
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?   
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the check is for Buddy Loans to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In other words, it wasnt about Buddy 
Loans assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr M. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the 
potential of Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Buddy Loans had to do, but it could take into account several different things such as the 
amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall 
circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).  
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Buddy Loans carried out a number of checks before it agreed to lend to Mr M. It says these 
included a full credit search, an enhanced bank check to ensure the account provided 
belonged to Mr M, income verification through an automated service, a full income and 
expenditure check and allowed a certain amount for discretionary spending. It also obtained 
one months bank statement for an account Mr M held jointly with his partner and three 
weeks payslips from Mr M. It says these checks were reasonable and proportionate, and 
satisfied it that Mr M could afford the repayments. 
Its fair to say that Buddy Loans gathered a reasonable amount of information about Mr M 
during the application process. So from the point of view of a risk to Buddy Loans, I can 
understand why it felt its checks were reasonable and proportionate. But if it had considered 
all the information it had gathered, I think it would have been reasonable to have made 
further checks bearing in mind its obligation to carry our borrower focussed checks. 
The application information Buddy Loans used to assess the lending, showed a monthly 
take home pay of £1,500. Its underwriting had reduced that to £1,414 apparently using a 
year to date average. It calculated his expenditure as £413 for credit and a further £645 for 
household expenditure, leaving a disposable income of £356 per month. The automated 
services lenders use, often return a confidence score based on account turnover which the 
lender then uses to verify the income quoted. The income verification tools are not generally 
sophisticated enough to separate out turnover for different account holders and different 
types of income. In this case, the account used was a joint one with Mr Ms partner. There 
were various benefit payments going through the account which belonged to his partner but 
may have been included in the income verification.  Nonetheless, Buddy Loans obtained 
three weeks payslips to try to confirm Mr Ms income. 
These payslips showed pay of an average of £308 per week so about £80 less per month 
than the £1,414 Buddy Loans used for Mr Ms income. But the statements for January 
showed an average of £266 per week  a difference of around £180 per month less than the 
payslips showed, and £260 less than the monthly figure used by Buddy Loans. The 
statement also revealed a couple of large unexplained credits  one of £2,000 and another 
of £600 - and credit turnover of £5,179 which is lower than the debit turnover of £5,236. I 
think the discrepancies in the income and account activity ought to have prompted Buddy 
Loans to ask further questions of Mr M.Mr Ms credit file at the time showed hed taken out another loan just two months earlier for 
£5,000 over five years, with monthly repayments of £197. It showed that hed opened a 
home credit account in January 2017 but had made no payments for the last five months, so 
the account had been marked as delinquent. Hed opened another home credit account in 
June 2017 to which hed made no payments at all, so it had been defaulted. He also had two 
credit cards with limits of £200 and £150 both of which were up to their limits, and a hire 
purchase agreement for £52 per month all of which were up to date.
I acknowledge that Buddy Loans lends to people who may not have a good credit history. 
But I think the presence of the recent, larger loan, and the recently delinquent and defaulted 
home credit accounts ought to have prompted it to take a closer look at Mr Ms finances.  
Having reviewed the evidence Buddy Loans obtained, I think the information it gathered 
through the credit checks and had received from Mr M should have led it to ask further 
questions. Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks Buddy Loans carried out 
before agreeing to lend to Mr M were fair, proportionate or reasonable.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I dont think that the fact that the loan has now been repaid on time and in full can be taken 
as proof that the loan was affordable or sustainable. Mr M has said the he was very 
conscious that he had a guarantor for the loan, so hed treated it as a priority.
I think Buddy Loans did the right thing in obtaining the bank statement and payslips from 
Mr M. But I dont think it paid enough attention to what that information  alongside the 
information it already had - was telling it. 
Comparing the bank statement and payslips to Mr Ms income and expenditure, it seems 
Mr Ms income was overstated. And some of the payments to creditors were understated. 
For instance, the hire purchase is included in Buddy Loans calculations as £13 per month, 
but the credit file shows the account reducing at £52 per month which implies the £13 is in 
fact a weekly figure.
Furthermore, the Mr Ms financial situation appeared to be worsening given that his credit file 
showed recent adverse information  the default and delinquent home credit accounts. Ive 
seen nothing which suggests Buddy Loans spoke to Mr M to find out what was happening 
with these accounts and why one of them had received no payments at all. 
Taking these factors into account, I think it ought to have been clear to Buddy Loans that 
Mr M was having difficulty managing his finances. He was becoming increasingly reliant on 
credit and was already failing to meet some of the agreements hed entered into just a short 
time earlier. I think Buddy Loans should have realised that Mr M was unable to afford his 
current commitments and adding a further loan to those, would be unsustainable for him. I 
think it should have concluded it was not appropriate to lend to Mr M.  
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way? 
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Buddy Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M in some other way. 
But I do think Buddy Loans should have refused to lend to Mr M, so I am upholding his 
complaint about the loan.Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr M in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. Mr M was given the loan, used the money and has already repaid the 
entire amount including interest due under the agreement.
So, I think Buddy Loans should:
Calculate the total amount Mr M has paid to the loan (including interest and charges) 
and deduct the amount of the loan itself (£2,000). 
oIf this results in Mr M having repaid more than the loan he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement. 
oIf Buddy Loans considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken 
off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Advancis Limited 
trading as Buddy Loans should put things right for Mr M in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman