DRN-3637099
The complaint
Ms G and Mr M complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they
made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr M brought the complaint to our service, for ease of reading, Ive referred mainly to him
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr M had an annual travel insurance policy through a bank.
In February 2020, Mr M booked flights abroad to a country Ill call S through a travel agent.
He was due to travel between 24 March and 7 April 2020.
However, on 15 March 2020, Mr M learned that from 18 March 2020, S government would
be imposing travel restrictions on UK nationals due to the spread of Covid-19. And he
discovered that the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) would be
advising against all but essential travel to S from 18 March 2020. Mr M got in touch with the
travel agent on 16 March 2020 to ask for a refund of his flight costs but was told that as there
werent any travel restrictions in place at that point, he wouldnt be entitled to a refund. So on
16 March 2020, Mr M cancelled the flights and made a cancellation claim on his travel
insurance policy.
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad
as a result of Covid-19.
AWP turned down Mr Ms claim. It acknowledged that the policy provided cancellation cover
if the FCDO had advised against travel to a policyholders destination. But it said that at the
point Mr M had cancelled his trip, thered been no FCDO advice against travel to S. So it
said that the claim wasnt covered.
Mr M was unhappy with AWPs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. While she accepted that there
hadnt been FCDO advice against travel to S at the point Mr M cancelled the flights, she
noted that the FCDO had advised against travel on the following day. So she thought that
given Mr M would always have had to cancel his flights, AWP wouldve been liable for the
claim in any event. That meant she didnt think AWP had been prejudiced by the fact Mr M
had cancelled his flights a day before the FCDO advice changed. And therefore she thought
AWP should deal with Mr Ms claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I 
thought itd been fair for AWP to turn down this claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether AWP treated
him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with AWP. The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy sets out the listed,
specific events AWP has chosen to cover in the event of a policyholders cancellation. This
includes cancellation due to:
The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office or equivalent government authority in the
beneficiarys country of residence advising against all travel or all but essential travel to the
beneficiarys intended destination.
It seems that Mr M cancelled his flights on 16 March 2020. At this point, S government
intended to impose travel restrictions on UK nationals on 18 March 2020 and consequently,
the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel to S from that date onwards.
However, on 16 March 2020, there was neither FCDO advice nor equivalent advice from S
government against travel from the UK to S. At the point of cancellation then, its clear there
were no applicable travel restrictions in place between the UK and S. And so I think its clear
that Mr Ms claim wasnt covered by the terms of the contract.
Subsequently, on the following day, the FCDO did advise against all but essential travel
abroad. And this was the reason why our investigator thought it would be fair for AWP to
deal with the claim outside of the policy terms. In some circumstances, I may direct an
insurer to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application
produces an unfair result. But thats not the case here, as Ill go on to explore.
The policy terms state that in the case of cancellation, AWP will pay:
the cost of deposits and trip expenses (including interconnecting flights) which are not
recoverable from any other source.
I think then the policy terms make it clear that AWP will only pay cancellation costs where a
policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. In this case, Mr M had booked flights
through a travel agent. Under EU regulations, in some circumstances, if an airline cancels a
flight, its liable to refund a travellers ticket costs.
Mr M cancelled his own flights and that therefore, he ended the booking contract with the
travel provider and airline. However, at the point Mr M was due to travel, the FCDO had
advised against all but essential travel abroad. And therefore, I think its most likely that the
flights would have had to have been cancelled by the relevant travel providers and the
booking contract couldnt have been fulfilled. If this had been the case, the airline wouldve
most likely been liable to refund all of the money Mr M had paid for his ticket. This means his
losses wouldve been legally recoverable from his travel provider and there wouldve been
no costs to claim on his travel insurance policy
As Mr M chose to cancel his trip on 16 March 2020 though, before the FCDO advice was
originally due to come into effect and eight days before he was due to travel, I think he
prejudiced AWPs position. While I can understand why Mr M chose to cancel the trip when
he did, I dont think it would be fair here for me to require AWP to step away from a strict
interpretation of the policy terms. Instead, on the facts of this case, I think by choosing to
cancel the flights rather than waiting for the FCDO advice to change, Mr M put AWP in a
worse position than it would otherwise have been than if hed waited for the airline to cancel
his flights. Thats because I think hed have therefore been entitled to a refund under EU
regulations. And on this basis, I currently think it was fair for AWP to turn down his claim.Based on the evidence Ive seen so far; I dont currently think there are any reasonable
grounds upon which I could direct AWP to pay Mr Ms claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wished me to consider.
AWP had nothing to add.
Mr M said he intended to respond but didnt do so by the original deadline or the extended 
deadline I gave. In the interest of fairness to both parties, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman