DRN-4344124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim made on their travel 
insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of a packaged bank 
account. 
In March 2022, theyd booked to go on a trip abroad in October 2022 with their children. A 
few weeks before their intended trip, they cancelled it as Mr P slipped a disc in his back and 
required an operation. They claimed on the policy.
AWP declined the claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs P hadnt declared hed had an MRI 
scan on his back which was carried out shortly before booking the trip. AWP concluded the 
reason for the trip cancellation related to Mr Ps pre-existing medical condition. And as AWP 
hadnt agreed to cover this pre-existing medical condition before booking the trip, the claim 
was declined. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and, ultimately, concluded AWP had fairly declined the claim. 
However, she did think AWP should have provided Mr and Mrs P with better service. And 
recommended it pay them £100 compensation. 
AWP accepted our investigators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed. So, their complaint has 
now been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has an obligation to handle insurance claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
I know Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed but, for the reasons set out below, Im 
satisfied AWP has acted fairly and reasonably by declining his claim.
The terms and conditions of the policy reflect that the policy doesnt automatically include 
cover for pre-existing medical conditions. And the general exclusions say AWP wont pay for 
any claims arising directly or indirectly from any pre-existing medical condition and 
associated conditions (unless terms are agreed in writing by AWP). 
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
Any disease, illness or injury for which you have experienced symptoms, consulted a 
doctor or been diagnosed withwhen renewing your medical screening declaration 
on the health check date
The health check date definition includes: 
Before booking a trip if your health has changed (your pre-existing medical condition 
has deteriorated, your dosage or number of prescribed medications has increased or 
you have developed a new medical condition)
The health declaration and health exclusions section of the policy (starting page 15) says:
You must provide us with further details about your pre-existing medical condition if:
You answer yes to any of the following medical screening questions; and
The pre-existing condition is not one of the No screen medical conditions listed in 
this section
It explains how Mr and Mrs P can provide AWP with further details of their pre-existing 
medical conditions (by email or by calling) and if they failed to do this it may mean you will 
not be covered for related claims.
Im satisfied the requirement to disclose pre-existing medical conditions to a travel insurer 
and undergo a medical screening prior to travel in order for pre-existing medical conditions 
to be covered isnt unusual. 
It isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs Ps trip was cancelled for reasons relating to a slipped disc 
in Mr Ps back. Mr Ps consultants letter dated September 2022 sets out his diagnosis and 
advises that he doesnt travel on any long or short-haul flights until his pain is resolved. 
The medical information I have about Mr Ps back issue is, I think, relatively limited. The 
medical certificate completed by Mr Ps consultant (for the attention of AWP) reflects the 
diagnosis as recurrent right L4/5 disc prolapse and that the first onset of Mr Ps symptoms 
for this condition was in July 2022. The consultant says they first met with Mr P about the 
condition in August 2022. I accept thats many months after the trip was booked.
However, the medical certificate also reflects that Mr P had a MRI scan in March 2022 which 
showed recurrent disc bulge but symptoms settled spontaneously. Our investigator asked 
Mr P more questions about this and he confirmed that his MRI took place in mid-March 
2022. The trip was booked a few days after that. 
Disc bulge/back conditions arent on the list of no screen medical conditions in the policy 
terms and conditions. 
So, Ive considered whether any of the medical screening questions shouldve been 
answered yes. The medical screening questions include:
In the last six months have you
Received treatment for or consulted a doctor about any medical condition?
Attended a hospital or clinic as an out-patient or in-patient for any reason?I know Mr P says that he had the MRI scan as a precaution. He says hed felt some tension 
in his back and hed had a back operation years before. He didnt have to take any time off 
work around the time of the MRI, and didnt need any further treatment at the time.
But the requirement for Mr and Mrs P to notify AWP of any pre-existing medical conditions 
which they wanted cover for was clearly and prominently set out in the policy terms which 
they had access to. 
Because Mr P had a MRI scan on his back a few days before the trip was booked, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs P shouldve answered yes to the medical screening questions. 
And they shouldve contacted AWP if they wanted his back condition to be covered but 
didnt. 
Although the available medical evidence is limited, Im satisfied AWP has fairly concluded 
that Mr P had a pre-existing medical condition as defined by the policy terms and has fairly 
linked the pre-existing medical condition with the reason why the holiday was cancelled. 
So, under the policy terms, Mr and Mrs P didnt have cover for any claims relating to Mr Ps 
back. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require AWP to 
retrospectively provide cover for a risk it hadnt agreed to accept before Mr and Mrs P 
booked their trip in the circumstances of this case.  
When making this finding Ive taken into account that Mr P called AWP before the trip was 
cancelled, to see whether he and Mrs P would be covered. He says he was told if the trip 
was cancelled, theyd be covered and, acting upon that assurance, the trip was cancelled. 
Otherwise, he says, a family member could have travelled with Mrs P and their two children. 
It wouldnt have cost much to have changed his flight details to the family member. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr P had with AWPs representative shortly before and shortly after 
cancelling the trip. Im not satisfied that Mr P was given any misleading or inaccurate 
information. The information he was provided was based on what he told the representative; 
that the holiday was booked in March 2022 and his back condition first started in August 
2022. Theres no mention of him having an MRI scan on his back shortly before the trip was 
booked. I dont think it was unreasonable for AWP to rely on what Mr P said during the calls 
when providing the information that it did. 
It took over three months for AWP to assess the claim and notify Mr and Mrs P that their 
claim had been declined. During this time Mr and Mrs P chased for updates and didnt 
receive call backs as promised. They were also asked to send documents to AWP more 
than once. Further, after the claim was declined, AWP didnt provide Mr and Mrs P with call 
recordings requested so that they could hear what was discussed when Mr P called AWP in 
October 2022, around the time of cancelling the trip and before making the claim. 
Im satisfied that there were some service failings by AWP and Mr and Mrs P were put to 
some distress and inconvenience as a result. I think AWP should pay them £100 to reflect 
this. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman