DRN-3324290
The complaint
Mr C is represented. His complaint is about advice, service and fees related to his 
relationship(s) with adviser/partners of St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). In 
summary, he says SJP is liable to compensate him for  
Unsuitable and/or lack of advice, and lack of monitoring/management, with regards to 
investments he made on its recommendation. [issue 1]
Withdrawing its advisory service to him because he had become a non-UK resident, 
so it had no jurisdiction to continue the service, despite the same service having 
previously been provided to him despite him being a non-UK resident. [issue 2]
Charging him fees for advice/management over the same period in which it says it 
did not have jurisdiction to provide such service  the implication being that it 
charged for a service it did not provide, so a refund of all associated fees is due. 
[issue 3]
 
The underperformance of relevant investments and loss arising from absent ongoing 
advice/monitoring, including a specific loss in value of over £50,000 in 2020 that he 
could have avoided had he known earlier (in 2019) that it was not providing the 
service he thought it was providing. [issue 4]
The poor level of service provided by the most recently appointed partner when he 
sought to liquidate/resolve his investments in 2020, which it administered  this being 
connected to the loss of value of over £50,000 in issue 4. [issue 5]
SJP disputes the complaint but has offered Mr C £500 for the time it took to address his 
concerns. Mr C appears to have rejected that. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld. It was then referred to an 
ombudsman.
What happened
Based on available evidence, Mr C has a history of investments made through SJP. In 
summary, there was  a Life Cover Protection Plan (LCPP) that he opened in 1993 and 
was transferred into a trust in 2008; a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) turned Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) he opened in 1995 and was paid up in 2017; an Investment Bond (IB) 
opened in 1995 and surrendered in 2009; an International Investment Plan (IIP) taken out in 
2000; then an ISA-Maxi also in 2000; an International Investment Bond (IIB1) in 2005; and 
two further IIBs in 2007 (IIB2 and IIB3).
The LCPP has been separated from the present complaint because it relates to a trust, and 
to another trustee who is not party to the present complaint, and must be considered in 
relation to the trust  not Mr C personally. Issue 5 has also been separated from the present 
complaint because it relates to the administration function of the relevant partner, in terms of 
administering the liquidation(s) Mr C pursued in 2020, and that was done under SJP 
International Ireland, so the matter was deemed to fall outside our jurisdiction.
With regards to the other issues, the investigator mainly found as follows:
SJPs withdrawal of the advisory service to Mr C arose from his particular 
circumstances. It could advise overseas residents but only those who had a 
meaningful and sustained connection to the UK. This, in practice, required that the 
client had sufficient ties with the UK and statutory guidance for this says it could have 
been established with a family tie, an accommodation tie, a work tie (working 
regularly in the UK for at least a month every year), a 90 days tie (where the person 
spends at least this long in the UK in a year), a country tie (spending more time in the 
UK than any other single country).
 
There is evidence that Mr C moved, and has remained, overseas after the ISA-Maxi 
investment in 2000, and that he has had no such sufficient ties with the UK since 
then. Furthermore, there is also evidence that his investments since then have been 
based on this profile (living, working and earning income overseas) and on objectives 
influenced by the profile (with emphasis on offshore investments). Part of issue 1 is 
about SJP recommending investments to him when, based on its position about not 
advising overseas clients like him, it ought not to have done so. Up to the financial 
review in 2000 [which led to the ISA-Maxi investment] Mr C was a UK resident so this 
argument is inapplicable to that. Thereafter are the investments in 2005 and 2007, 
when the above overseas client profile applied to him. It is clear that the profile meant 
SJP should not have been advising him and it concedes this. However, this alone 
does not mean there is ground to uphold Mr Cs argument. 
An analysis of the investments shows that they met his investor profile (including his 
overseas profile) and objectives, and that they were suitable. Even after SJP 
withdrew its advisory service in 2016 he agreed a reduced service, based only on the 
provision of information, to follow on a three-monthly basis. Thereafter he also 
continued to benefit from a form of servicing from the adviser  with whom he had a 
personal friendship for over 25 years  which appears to have gone beyond what he 
was entitled to from SJP (probably because of the friendship). Overall, Mr C 
benefited from the service the adviser provided to him from 2005 onwards, so it 
would not be fair and reasonable to award the compensation (including refund of 
fees) that he claims in issue 3.
Furthermore, and in terms of fees, the services for recommendations of the 
investments were isolated, they did not include ongoing advice to Mr C or the 
monitoring and/or management of his investments. Nothing in the relevant suitability 
reports refers to an ongoing advisory service, they mention his option to review and 
switch funds at any time but the responsibility was upon him to contact SJP if he 
sought to do this. The cost of advice was factored into the deductions subsequently 
taken from the investments, so the ongoing service he received from the adviser was 
not actually covered by those deductions, and no separate or additional charge was 
applied for that. 
SJP cannot reasonably be held responsible for Mr Cs investments performances. 
The investments were suitable and it had no ongoing responsibility to monitor or 
manage them, and there is evidence  from 2017, after the advisory service was 
withdrawn  of Mr C switching funds in his portfolio without advice. This suggests 
nothing stopped him from rebalancing his portfolio himself. 
Given that Mr C had known, since 2016, about the advisory service withdrawal there is a lack of merit in his claim that he could have avoided over £50,000 in losses with 
such knowledge in 2019.
Mr C did not accept this outcome and his representative confirmed his intention to present 
submissions for the ombudsman to consider. After around three months, a submission was 
made but the investigator fed back to him that it was a blank document. The representative 
suggested he could have sent the wrong document and promised to send the correct one. 
More time was given for the representatives submissions on behalf of Mr C. After around 
another two months the case was referred to an ombudsman, but the submissions remained 
outstanding. This decision is being issued after around a further two months and the 
submissions still do not appear to have been received, despite other contact from the 
representative in recent months seeking updates in the cases progress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly similar reasons, and I endorse and incorporate her reasons into this decision. 
Nevertheless, the parties are entitled to my own findings so I summarise them below.
Before moving to my findings, I summarised (in concluding the previous section) the events 
after the investigators view because I am without grounds on which Mr C and/or his 
representative dispute her view. I did that because I consider it important to note the reason 
why I am in such a position. By not accepting the view, an inference that can be drawn is 
that Mr C disputes it, but without reasons for such dispute I have focused on a review of the 
case and of the views findings and conclusions.
I find as follows:
Issue 5 is beyond the remit of this decision. It is about events in 2020, at the tail end 
of Mr Cs relationship with SJP, but it does not relate to the advisory service SJP was 
previously responsible for. Instead it relates to the administration conducted by the 
SJP International Ireland entity, through the last partner he had, in relation to the 
liquidations he pursued at the time. The present complaint is not about SJP 
International Ireland, and I have not seen grounds on which to expect SJP  the 
respondent to the present complaint  to answer (and be liable for) the issue on its 
behalf.
It is expressed (and implicit) in the complaint that Mr Cs grievance is about issues 
related to the service he received from SJP, and the fees paid, after he moved 
overseas. Available evidence is that by around 2001 he had undertaken the overseas 
profile. It follows that his investments through SJP prior to this point, and during the 
period in which he was a UK resident, are not relevant to the complaint  and it is my 
observation that they have not featured in the submissions made for his case up to 
the investigators view. In addition to this, and as the investigator noted, one of those 
pre-2001 investments  the LCPP  was moved into a trust in 2008 and is therefore 
outside the remit of this complaint. The trust would be the complainant, if there was 
to be a complaint about this investment, but the only complainant in this case is Mr C. 
For these reasons, I have no cause to make findings about the LCPP, the PEP/ISA, 
the IB, the IIP and the ISA-Maxi. This leaves the three IIBs to be addressed, in as far 
as they are relevant to issues 1, 2, 3 and 4.The notion that the IIBs were unsuitably recommended at the outset does not appear 
to be at the fore of Mr Cs arguments in issue 1. Instead, his claim is mainly that SJP 
failed to manage and monitor them and to give him suitable ongoing advice in these 
respects; and then, separately, failed to properly assist him in administering their 
liquidation. The investigator gave reasonably detailed treatment to the profiles of the 
IIBs (and of their contents, which were similar across all thee IIBs) and to how they 
matched Mr Cs circumstances and objectives in 2005 and 2007. I endorse what she 
said and incorporate them into this decision. I do not consider it necessary to set out 
another analysis in this respect because the investigators findings are broadly 
supported by available evidence (evidence that is known to both parties), and they 
have not been disputed, and as I said above this area is not the focus of issue 1.
There is no evidence of an agreed ongoing management service between Mr C and 
SJP for the IIBs. Professional management of investments is not a service that 
loosely exists. Such a service is usually defined and agreed in reasonably clear 
terms between the firm and its client  terms including, but not limited to, confirmation 
of the type of service (mainly advisory or discretionary management), a mandate (for 
a discretionary management service) and associated management fees. I have not 
seen evidence of this in Mr Cs case and my conclusion is that SJP was not 
responsible for the ongoing management of the IIBs.
Ongoing monitoring of investments is usually bundled within an ongoing advisory 
service agreement, whereby following the initial investment recommendation there is 
an arrangement in place for periodical reviews of the investment (and of the 
investors profile) and, sometimes, for other servicing related aspects connected to 
the investment. Mr Cs case is that there is evidence of ongoing fee deductions, 
going to SJP from the IIBs which indicates that it continued to receive fees for its 
ongoing service to him  then his argument that follows is that no such service in its 
proper and meaningful form was given to him, especially after 2016. In 2012 changes 
were applied to how firms were remunerated for their advice work (and how such 
remuneration was to be disclosed/transparent). The IIBs were recommended before 
this. At the time of their recommendations, in 2005 and 2007, firms could factor in the 
cost of their advice into ongoing, or trail, deductions from the investments during their 
lifetimes. Available evidence suggests that this is what happened in Mr Cs case and 
that what he viewed as fees for ongoing service were actually and only trail 
deductions for the initial costs of the IIBs recommendations.
The implication is that, like for a management service, there would probably have 
been clearly defined and agreed terms between the parties if there was to be a 
separate or additional ongoing advisory service (inclusive of monitoring) for any or all 
the IIBs. There is no available evidence of this, and the investigator noted that the 
suitability letters mentioned Mr Cs ability to review and switch funds but nothing was 
said to the extent of establishing a duty upon SJP to do that as part of an ongoing 
advisory service. Where, as it appears, there were times in which the adviser/partner 
conducted himself in ways akin to providing an ongoing service to Mr C I can 
understand how that could have given him the impression that he was entitled to one 
and how, alongside what appears to have been his misreading of the trail deductions, 
he could have thought he was paying for one. However, neither appears to have 
been the case and, on balance, I am not satisfied that I have seen enough to 
conclude that the partners discretionary conduct in this respect  seemingly, as the 
investigator said, related to friendship  amounts to creation (in practice) of an 
ongoing service owed to Mr C and/or creation of SJPs responsibility for such a 
service. For the above reasons, I am not persuaded to uphold issues 1 and 3.
Mr C makes a fair point in issue 2. It was conflicting for SJP to withdraw the advisory 
service in 2016 because of his overseas profile even though his adviser appears to 
have been delivering that service to him previously whilst he had broadly the same 
overseas profile. For example, the recommendations of the three IIBs between 2005 
and 2007 happened in the context of his overseas profile. It appears that IIB 
acknowledges this conflict. However, as the investigator said, this alone is not 
enough to uphold the claim(s) Mr C makes in this issue. As I said above, the 
recommendations of the IIBs were suitable and he benefited from a form of ongoing 
service, at no additional cost and seemingly at the advisers discretion, thereafter. 
The fact that SJPs position in 2016 means it ought not to have made the 
recommendations in 2005 and 2007 cannot reasonably outweigh these factors. On 
balance and given the fact that SJP conducted the advisory work that Mr C paid for 
and benefitted from, I do not consider it fair to conclude that those fees should be 
refunded.
In terms of the investment under-performance aspect in issue 4, this service would 
not normally determine an issue about an investments underperformance in 
isolation, and I have not seen cause to depart from that approach in this case. 
Investment performance is rarely guaranteed by firms and there is no evidence in   
Mr Cs case that such a guarantee was given to him. I have noted a communication 
from him in which he accepts that investment performance is, broadly speaking, 
beyond a firms control, and I agree. However, if it is established that an investment 
was unsuitable, and/or it was mismanaged and/or there was a material lack of 
monitoring over it  individually or collectively leading to a financial loss  the matters 
of unsuitable advice, mismanagement and/or lack of monitoring can be considered 
instead  that is, as opposed to under-performance. I have already determined 
above, on balance, that the IIBs were suitable for Mr C and that SJP had no 
management or monitoring responsibilities over them, so I do not find it responsible 
for his claim for financial loss compensation.
Also in issue 4 is the reference to the specific argument that Mr C could have 
avoided a particular loss in 2020 had he known the true nature of the service SJP 
was providing earlier (in 2019). Like the investigator said, this argument is defeated 
by the fact that he knew of the advisory service withdrawal in 2016. It is also defeated 
by his arrangement of the reduced information only service thereafter and before 
2019. The combination of both, meant he was fully informed, by 2019, of the type of 
service he was receiving from SJP.
The part of issue 4 that refers to financial loss arising from absent monitoring of      
Mr Cs investments is addressed by my finding above that SJP was not responsible 
for monitoring the IIBs.
I consider SJPs offer of £500 to Mr C, for the time it took to address his concerns, to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case and he is invited to 
reconsider it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman