DRN-1095867
The complaint
Mr S complains about how esure Insurance Limited has settled a claim made on his car 
insurance policy following an accident in June 2018. Hes unhappy that esure has agreed to 
settle the claim on a 50/50 liability basis which will impact his no claims discount at renewal. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was being driven by a named driver, who Ill call Ms S. Whilst navigating around a 
roundabout Ms S collided with a lorry. Ms S reported that she was in her lane when the lorry 
came into her lane and scraped down the side of the car. A cyclist had video footage of 
events after the accident which showed both the car and the lorry stopped on the 
roundabout. The footage showed the lorry half-way into Ms Ss lane and Ms S had stopped 
some way down the road, entirely in her lane. 
Mr S submitted a claim to esure.  When considering the claim, esure received two 
statements from Ms S. It also received a statement from the third-party driver, which 
included a sketch of what the third-party driver believed to have happened. The sketch 
showed Ms S moving into the lorrys lane resulting in the collision. esure considered the 
video footage but didnt find it persuasive as it didnt show the actual incident but events 
afterwards. It made enquiries about CCTV footage but none was available. And although the 
third-party driver had a dashcam this was found to not be working. So esure was left with 
contradictory statements about events.  It didnt think this was sufficient to pursue matters in 
court and so agreed a 50/50 settlement with the third-party insurers. 
Not happy with that, Mr S complained. esure stood by its decision to settle the claim on that 
basis. Mr S appealed on several occasions with no change in outcome, and so he asked us 
to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator concluded esure hadnt acted unfairly. She explained Mr Ss policy stated it 
was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. And that it wasnt our services role to decide on 
liability, but to consider whether esure had fairly considered everything in reaching its 
decision. Our investigator was satisfied it did. 
But Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings. He remains of the view the video footage 
supports Ms Ss version of events, that the lorry came across into her lane to cause the 
accident. He also doesnt think the evidence it has relied on is sufficient and is particularly 
unhappy with what he sees as deficiencies in the third-party statement, such as Ms S not 
being mentioned or the type of car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr S and esure that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above, I have considered everything I have been provided with 
in its entirety.It isnt my role to determine who was actually liable for the accident at the heart of this 
dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding here is whether esure 
has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt 
with the claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Mr S and esure  the policys terms and 
conditions. These include a provision that entitles esure to take over and deal with a claim in 
a policyholders name. Similar provisions are found in all motor insurance policies Ive seen 
and I dont find it unusual or surprising.
So under the terms of the policy esure can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That 
might mean it makes a decision Mr S disagrees with, as has happened here. But the terms 
and conditions of the policy allow esure to make such a decision. 
I know Mr S strongly feels the video footage supports Ms Ss version of events. I have 
reviewed the video footage and Im afraid I disagree. The footage starts after the accident 
has already taken place. And its quite clear from the footage that the vehicles arent stopped 
were the accident happened; Ms S is a number of yards down the road. So although the 
lorry was stopped halfway over the lane, Im not persuaded this of itself is persuasive 
evidence the lorry encroached into Ms Ss lane causing the accident. I therefore find it was 
right for esure to make enquiries about what other evidence was available and consider it 
accordingly. 
I understand it contacted Transport for London for CCTV footage of the accident but this 
wasnt available. And I can see from the information provided that it did request a copy of the 
dash cam footage, which unfortunately was also unavailable. That left esure with 
contradictory statements from Ms S and the third-party driver about what happened as the 
only evidence on which to base a decision. esure will have experience of how courts view 
such matters, and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. And in the absence of 
any independent witness testimony of the actual accident, Im not persuaded it was acting 
unfairly when taking account of both statements and deciding to settle on a 50/50 basis.  
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about this, not least because it will affect his no claim 
discount. And I know he believes the lorry to be totally at fault for what happened. But as Ive 
explained, it would be for a court of law to decide liability. What Ive looked at is 
whether esure has taken everything into account when deciding on his claim. Im satisfied it 
has. For that reason I wont be asking esure to do anything further in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision before 18 December 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman