DRN-3018634
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Vitality Corporate Services Limited didnt cancel their protection 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The joint policy held by Mr and Mrs A provided cover for both of them in the event of 
death, and income protection cover for Mr A. It also included serious illness cover for 
their children. Ill call that Policy Z. 
The policy later taken out by Mr A provided cover for him and his family for the cost 
of private healthcare treatment. Ill call that Policy Y. 
As the two policies provided different types of cover, I agree with our investigator that 
Vitality wouldve had no reason to automatically cancel Policy Z when Mr A took out 
Policy Y.  
Vitality doesnt have a recording of the call where Mr A took out Policy Y. However, 
Ive read the system notes from this date and they do say that Mr A wanted to take 
out Policy Y and cancel Policy Z. It seems a discussion took place about Vitality 
Points and Mr A was told he would need to advise the life department to request the 
points be transferred over when he cancelled the policy. 
I think it was apparent from the notes referred to above that Vitality hadnt cancelled 
Policy Z during that call, and that Mr A would need to contact another department to 
arrange that cancellation.
Vitality doesnt have a record of Mr A contacting it again to cancel Policy Z. Vitality 
therefore continued to provide cover.
Mr and Mrs A didnt notice they were paying for the two policies until June 2020. 
Thats unfortunate, but as our investigator has explained, we generally take the view 
that its a consumers responsibility to check their bank statements. 
I therefore dont require Vitality to refund Mr and Mrs A the premiums they paid for 
Policy Z between August 2019 and the date they cancelled the cover in 2020. If Mr 
and Mrs A had made a valid claim under Policy Z, Vitality wouldve been liable to pay 
it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman