DRN-3759049
The complaint
Mr G complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) completed poor repairs on his car and gave a 
poor service after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. And it did not offer fair 
payment for loss of use when the car was returned for rectification work completing.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Mr Gs unattended parked car was hit by a third party in May 2022. The third party did not 
stop or leave their details. Mr G made a claim on his motor insurance policy that he held with 
UKI.
UKI accepted Mr Gs claim and his car went to UKIs approved supplier for repairs on 
25 May 2022.
UKI paid Mr G £500 in lieu of car hire.
There were some issues with the quality of the repairs and Mr Gs car was at the garage a 
few days longer than estimated. The car was returned on 10 June 2022 but there were still 
issues with the standard of the repairs.
UKI paid Mr G £360 in compensation for the issues with the repairs. And because he had 
used his own car whilst the car was in the garage it paid him £50 towards additional fuel 
costs.
UKIs engineer  assessed Mr Gs car on 29 June 2022 and it was agreed that an
alternative garage should be used to complete the repairs properly. UKI did not have an 
approved supplier available to complete the repairs. 
Eventually a main dealer was found to do the repairs. It paid Mr G £100 in compensation for 
the delay. The car was due to go in on 15 August 2022 and the repairs were estimated to 
take 5 days.
UKI agreed to offer Mr G car hire whilst his car was in for the repairs. It agreed this outside 
the terms of his policy. However its approved car hire company had issues sourcing a 
suitable hire car that met Mr Gs needs. He agreed to use his other vehicle again. UKI paid 
him a loss of use payment of £300, together with a further £200 compensation for the 
problems he had experienced with the hire car company, 
The repairs took a lot longer than the initial five days the garage had estimated. Mr G got his 
car back on 15 September 2022. 
Mr G doesnt think the £300 provided for loss of use on this second occasion is enough. UKI 
declined to pay more because it said it was not responsible for the delay in completing the 
repairs. It also said that a usual payment for loss of use was £10 per day and therefore the 
£300 was in line with that.
As Mr G was not happy with UKI, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said as the 
timescales for the repairs were agreed between Mr G and the main dealer it was outside of 
UKIs control. They felt the £300 paid for loss of use of his car was fair and reasonable as 
was the overall compensation paid during the period of his claim.
As Mr G is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I saw that after UKIs approved supplier made unsatisfactory repairs to Mr Gs car that it was 
unable to source an alternative repairer with availability from its approved supplier list. So it 
approached a number of main dealers to undertake the repair work. A suitable main dealer 
garage was eventually found, but this was not a UKI approved supplier.
UKI paid Mr G £100 for the delay in sourcing a garage to complete the required repairs. 
Mr G said this was not expected or even asked for, but that he accepted the offer.
Loss of use of car during rectification work
As the repair work was due to the poor standard of repairs completed by its approved 
supplier, UKI agreed to organise car hire outside the policy terms. It offered a larger car that 
would  meet his family needs. 
Before this was arranged Mr G said he would be happy to use his own car again but wanted 
to be paid £75 per day for loss of use. UKI declined this. It offered £150. Mr G decided he 
would accept the car hire rather than the £150 offered by UKI.
I have seen that when trying to organise the hire car there were numerous administration 
issues with UKIs approved hire car company. Including multiple requests for the same 
information and unsuitable cars were offered. 
A car that met Mr Gs family needs was not found and so UKI increased its offer for loss of 
use to £300.
Mr G still wanted more than £300 but eventually agreed to this amount.  But he said he felt 
that if the repairs went over five days an extra £10 per day was fair. I saw evidence that UKI 
were very clear that this offer would not be increased if the car was in the garage for more 
than the estimated five days.
UKI also paid Mr G £200 for the inconvenience caused due to the poor service given by its  
approved car hire supplier and as it was unable to secure a suitable car.
Delayed repairs
The repairs to Mr Gs car took much longer than the initial estimate of five days given to him 
by the garage. In total the car was at the garage for 32 days. Due to the delay Mr G wanted an increase in the amount paid to him. UKI said it would not increase its offer from the £300 
already paid.  
UKI said it was not responsible for the repairs taking longer than the five days estimate. It 
said it hadnt set any timescales with Mr G as the main dealer garage was outside of their 
own approved network. It said although it found the main dealer and authorised the repairs, 
the arrangements to take the car in were made between the main dealer and Mr G. 
UKI had also told Mr G prior to the start of the rectification work that it would not increase its 
offer of £300 if the repairs went over the five days estimate. 
I do understand that the delays meant that Mr G cancelled a family trip, as he said making 
the long journey in his alternative vehicle would not have been very comfortable.
It is usual to be awarded £10 per day for loss of use of a car where a customer doesnt have 
use of another vehicle, so UKIs offer of £300 prior to the repairs starting was over the usual 
amount. 
Although Mr G was without his car for longer than expected he did have use of an alternative 
vehicle. The £300 paid is still within the usual award range for loss of use. I have not seen 
any evidence that the alternative vehicle used has experienced wear and tear costs of more 
than he has already been paid.
So I have not been persuaded that UKI should increase its offer of £300 and I think the 
payment for loss of use was fair as it was in line with usual awards. 
I understand that throughout this claim it will have been a stressful time for Mr G and the 
service offered by UKI has not always been as it should have been. 
After careful consideration of the payments for compensation and redress made as a whole. 
(£660 in compensation, £500 in lieu of car hire, £300 for loss of use and £50 for fuel) I think 
that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint and do not require UKI to do anything further in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman