DRN-2180859
The complaint
Mr D says Novaloans Ltd  trading as cash4unow (Nova) - irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Nova provided to Mr D between September 2018 and 
December 2019. Mr Ds borrowing history is laid out below:
 
 
The complaint has been reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator didnt 
uphold Mr Ds complaint because they thought given that Mr D only had four loans with 
Nova, it wasnt unfair for Nova to have provided the loans. Mr D disagreed and the case was 
passed for a final decision by an ombudsman. Whilst the case was waiting to be allocated to 
an ombudsman it was reviewed by a second adjudicator. This adjudicator partially upheld  
Mr Ds complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 shouldnt have been given because had 
Nova done proportionate checks it would have seen that Mr D couldnt afford to repay these 
loans as his outgoings exceeded his income.  
Nova disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. So, the complaint has now been 
passed to me to issue a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Nova needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nova should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 09/09/2018 21/12/2018 4 £150.00 £58.76
2 13/04/2019 31/07/2019 4 £250.00 £95.52
3 19/08/2019 29/11/2019 4 £150.00 £55.08
4 04/12/2019 30/04/2020 6 £200.00 £65.08the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nova was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done this, Im partially upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither adjudicator upheld loan 1. Mr D hasnt given me anything else to consider about this 
loan, so I wont be making any further findings on it. 
Nova says it carried out checks before it lent loan 2 to Mr D. And has provided a copy of the 
results of those checks. But had Nova properly considered the information, it would have 
seen that it was unlikely Mr D would have been able to repay this borrowing sustainably.      
Mr Ds income was £1,300 but the information Nova gathered about Mr Ds outgoings and 
other borrowing commitments came to £1,676. So, Mr D was over-extended even before the 
repayment for loan 2 was taken into account. 
In addition, there were discrepancies between what Mr D declared as his credit 
commitments for loans 3 and 4 and the information Nova had obtained from its searches of 
Mr Ds credit reports. On this basis, Nova ought to have taken steps to verify what Mr D was 
telling it  by asking to see copies of his bank statements. Had it done this it would have 
seen that Mr D was borrowing from several other short-term lenders. 
This behaviour was mostly likely an indication Mr D was in a cycle of debt which was 
becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain.  
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Nova should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Novas liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
So, Nova should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 to 4 from Mr Ds credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nova to take off tax from this interest. Nova must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. Novaloans Ltd should put things right as set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman