DRN-3389638
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited dealt with a request to 
close his account and remove his data.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr F received a quarterly investment email update from Nutmeg. Mr F 
wasnt expecting this as some years earlier he had asked Nutmeg to close his account and 
remove his data.
Nutmeg looked into things and apologised for the email as they had previously told Mr F that 
he had been removed from all email distribution lists. Nutmeg said that when Mr F asked for 
his account to be closed they explained it would remain open for six months to allow for any 
dividend payments. They say they told Mr F at the time that he should contact them after the 
six months to fully close the account, but because they didnt hear from him the account 
remained open.  
Mr F was unhappy with this answer saying he thought it reasonable some compensation 
was due for the errors. He brought the complaint to our service saying he felt his security 
had been breached because the account had been left open and he wanted Nutmeg to 
check that other customers were protected better. 
One of our Investigators considered everything that happened but didnt think any 
compensation was due. They thought Nutmeg had explained the account closure process so 
didnt make any errors by leaving it open when they didnt hear from Mr F after the six 
months. They acknowledged Mr Fs concerns about his data and explained that the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) would be more suitable to deal with concerns about 
his personal information. 
Mr F disagreed saying that where there was a wrongdoing such as what happened to him 
there should be compensation as it is the only way to solve the problem. Our Investigator 
also provided Mr F with screenshots from Nutmeg showing that his email address had been 
deleted. Mr F didnt agree the problem was resolved as he still had concerns about identity 
fraud, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr F feels about what happened. And I want to assure him that 
Ive read and considered everything hes provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised some things that happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Nutmeg have agreed they didnt remove Mr F from some email lists like they said they 
would, and theyve apologised for this. I think the apology is a reasonable way of resolving 
the complaint and dont think any compensation is due. 
When considering payments of compensation its important to keep in mind that using 
financial services wont always be hassle free. We wouldnt normally award compensation 
for things that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life. And I think 
receiving an unwanted email falls into the area of a nuisance of everyday life. Its also 
important to say that our role isnt to punish a business for making a mistake. 
I know Mr F is worried about how his data has been handled but Ive not seen any evidence 
that what happened caused any problems with things such as identity fraud. Mr F seems 
worried about what might happen however I can only look at what has actually happened; 
and this is an important distinction. And since there has been no consequence of the email 
address remaining on a distribution list I wont be making any award for compensation. 
Similarly I havent seen any significant impact from the fact that the account remained open 
when Mr F thought it was closed. Mr F says that Nutmeg never told him he had to get back 
in contact with them after six months to fully close the account. Even if I accept this is the 
case, and Ive no reason to doubt what Mr F has said, it seems the impact is again minor. 
If Mr F has wider concerns about how Nutmeg or other companies act in regards to data, 
then he can refer his concerns to the ICO. Its my role to look at the impact of what 
happened to Mr F in these particular circumstances, which is what Ive done.
Having carefully considered everything from both sides Im satisfied that the apology from 
Nutmeg is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint and I wont be asking them 
to take any further action. Im also satisfied that Nutmeg has now removed his email address 
from their systems.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman