DRN-3611975
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that Allianz Business Services Limited 
(ABSL) mis-sold its business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr B, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W held business interruption insurance through ABSL, its broker for a number of years. In 
2020 W claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. The insurer turned down Ws claim as it said the 
policy didnt provide cover. While the policy covered some specified illnesses, Covid-19 
wasnt one of the illnesses covered.  
W complained to ABSL. It said it had asked for insurance in the event it was unable to trade 
and had bought the policy based on ABSLs recommendation. W said the policy was 
supposed to be one which provided excellent cover and it didnt think it was clear that the 
policy only covered certain circumstances. W said ABSL had only offered a policy from one 
insurer and they should have also considered others.
ABSL said the policy wouldnt cover every circumstance and said W hadnt specifically 
asked for cover which hadnt been provided. They said they had provided W with the 
documents to check the cover was suitable for its needs and made it clear that they only 
offered cover from one insurer. ABSL didnt think they had mis-sold the policy. 
Unhappy with ABSLs response, W brought its complaint to our service. 
ABSL said that while the document setting out Ws demands and needs said that business 
interruption insurance provided cover when they couldnt trade, this was to set out the basis 
of ABSLs recommendation and not as a summary of the cover. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy was mis-sold.
W asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ws business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook, when selling a policy, a firm should 
specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent with 
them. As this was an advised sale, ABSL had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
suitability of their advice, as well as to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
In my decision Im going to focus on the renewal which took place in January 2020 as that 
was the policy in force at the time of the claim. 
The document showing Ws demands and needs and the basis for ABSLs recommendation 
says that W was looking for cover to protect its income if it was unable to trade. This is 
consistent with the cover W says it asked for, so I believe W said it wanted cover for if it was 
unable to trade.
The same document says that this requirement will be covered under the business 
interruption insurance section of the policy. I accept that the document doesnt say only 
certain risks are covered, but the document goes on to say that it is intended as the basis of 
ABSLs recommendation and isnt intended as a summary of the cover.  
Different policies cover different risks and in my experience it would be unusual for a policy 
to provide cover for every circumstance which led to an inability to trade. ABSL have 
provided a written extract from the renewal call in 2017 where their agent said:
Business Interruption reinstates income if there is Damage to your premises and 
you cant trade. Were talking; Flood, Fire, Denial of Access, a break in with lots 
of damage, things like that. Do you feel 12 months would be adequate time to put 
your business back in shape following a serious event like a fire?  
So I think at that point ABSL had provided some explanation of the types of risks that were 
covered and hadnt indicated that W would be covered for any inability to trade.
Also, even if ABSL hadnt said this and W had asked for further cover at later renewals, I 
think its unlikely that ABSL would have been able to provide a policy which covered an 
inability to trade caused by any eventuality. So, Id expect ABSL to provide W with 
information to show what was covered and consider any specific demands and needs. 
I can see that ABSL provided W with renewal documents which included a link to the policy 
terms which clearly set out the cover. Id expect ABSL to highlight anything significant within 
the policy, but I dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or Government lockdown was 
significant at the time the policy renewed. I havent seen anything to indicate a wider cover 
for diseases was something W wanted so Im not persuaded that ABSL didnt propose a 
policy which was consistent with Ws demands and needs 
ABSLs Terms of Business set out that they provide insurance through one insurer, unless 
they are unable to find a suitable policy from that insurer. I think this is clear and, for the 
reasons above, Im not persuaded that the policy ABSL sold in January 2020 was unsuitable 
for W. 
I understand W was frustrated to find that its policy didnt provide cover for the
circumstances of its claim but I think ABSL proposed a policy that was consistent with its
demands and needs and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. ABSL
let W know they were working with the insurer as a sole provider and, overall, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me they didnt take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their 
advice. It follows that I dont think ABSL mis-sold Ws policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman