DRN-4427583
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked a payment to himself, blocked his internet 
access and gave him poor customer service.
What happened
Mr M says he made four transfers from his HSBC account to his third party account which 
were successful. The following day he made another payment which was successful, but the 
day after that a payment was blocked. He says he spoke to HSBCs fraud department, 
verified his identity, confirmed the payment was a genuine transaction, but he refused to 
answer several more questions HSBC asked him, so he told them to cancel the transaction 
and to return the funds to his account. Mr M said the funds were not returned so he called 
HSBC to instruct them to either transfer the funds or to return them to his account. He said 
the funds were returned, but his online banking was blocked. 
Mr M says that he called HSBC to make a complaint, and he wanted to make a complaint 
about the call handler also, but they refused. He says he was told the call handlers 
supervisor would ring him, but Mr M didnt receive a call from him. Mr M says the call handler 
blocked telephone banking access to him, to stop complaints being made and this forced a 
branch visit. Mr M visited a branch and a manager took his identification. He spoke to the 
fraud department over the phone, but he refused to have a 30 minute conversation with 
them, and the branch manager spoke to them, and they agreed to unblock the online 
access, but when Mr M went home, this was still blocked.
Mr M rang HSBC again who refused to unblock the online banking access without him 
completing their questions. Mr M says that he had to visit the branch again to finally get the 
account unblocked, and as his funds were blocked he lost out on interest as he couldnt 
transfer the funds to a higher interest rate. Mr M made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC partially upheld Mr Ms complaint, and they credited Mr Ms account with £40. They 
said when a payment has been held for security checks, it is their policy to attempt contact 
with a customer to confirm the validity of the payment. If they are unable to contact Mr M to 
discuss the payment before its release or if they do not receive a call by 8pm that day, 
various factors will be considered, his online banking or telephone banking facility will be 
suspended as a precaution to prevent further payments from debiting. They said when they 
contacted Mr M, they were unable to complete verification during the telephone call and he 
had terminated the call once he had confirmation the complaint was raised. 
HSBC said they were within their rights to disconnect a call if language used by customers 
comes across as abusive or threatening. They said following Mr Ms call with them, once the 
necessary checks were complete he was advised his online banking facility would be 
reinstated, but this action was not completed correctly, and the promised manager call back 
was not made. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said the stopped payment and 
subsequent blocking of Mr Ms account was due to Mr M not completing the security 
questions which HSBC have in place to protect both them and him from fraudulent activity. 
He said HSBCs actions were in line with their terms and conditions and disclaimer.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said blocking a transaction and blocking online banking are two separate 
issues, the online transaction was blocked despite it being transferred to an account in his 
own name, previous funds had been transferred to the account from his HSBC account, and 
he asked on what grounds it was reasonable to block the payment, and why HSBC didnt 
call him regarding his previous payments made to the same account. 
Mr M said that when the payment was blocked, a call handler agreed to return the funds to 
his account and not make the payment, so he asked what the basis was to ask him 
questions regarding a transaction which would not occur, he said a call handler blocked his 
online access to his account after claiming he failed security after he stated he wanted to 
make a complaint against him. He says he was asked scripted questions while on the phone 
in the branch despite providing his identification.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ms complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
I must make it clear to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how 
they should operate their security procedures, such as what questions they should ask Mr M, 
when they should block a transaction, when they should block online access and what type 
of accounts they should block payments to  even if they are in the same name of their 
customer. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the payments he attempted to make were to the 
same account and in his name that he had previously made payments to. HSBC confirmed 
in their response to Mr M that when a payment is held for a security check, this is an 
automated system used to check payments. And because it is automated, they don't have a 
way of bypassing it regardless of the reason behind the payment. So, although the payment 
was to an account in his own name, they would be unable to bypass this as they confirmed it 
breached a security parameter. HSBC are not obliged to tell our service, their own frontline 
staff, or Mr M what this security parameter is as this could compromise their security 
processes.
Ive listened to the call that Mr M had initially with HSBC and the call handler confirms she 
has seen many cases such as this (when a customer had recently opened an account and 
transferred savings to it). While the call handler was reading warnings to Mr M, he asked her 
to transfer the money or to cancel the transaction. The call handler tells Mr M that if they 
didnt clear all of the checks and give him the information needed, they couldnt make the 
payment. Mr M tells her to cancel the payment. So Mr M did not clear all of the checks here. 
He then asked for the call handler to raise a complaint and he wanted a phone call from 
somebody. She tells Mr M she can log his complaint, but she cant release the payment if he 
is not co-operating with the checks. Mr M asks if the complaint is logged, and she confirms that it is and Mr M appears to disconnect the call as the call handler is saying do you want 
to get. 
Ive listened to another call that Mr M had with HSBC on the same day when he asks to raise 
a complaint. The call handler informs him that a complaint has already been made. Mr M 
asks why the transfer hasnt been paid back into his account. The call handler says to go 
ahead with the payment he needs to go through some checks. Mr M says he isnt going to 
go through this as he had been verified previously. The call handler says if he doesnt want 
to go through the checks and he wants it sent back then he needs his consent. Mr M asks 
him to send it back. The call handler tries to talk but Mr M interrupts him and makes noises 
when the call handler speaks, and Mr M tells him he is not competent, and the line 
disconnects after Mr M says goodbye. 
Ive looked at the personal banking terms and conditions. These show that HSBC can refuse 
to make a payment for their customer if You havent given us any extra information about 
the payment that weve reasonably asked for. I know Mr M would strongly disagree that the 
extra information they asked for wasnt reasonable, but the questions on the call were linked 
to the payment, so Im not persuaded they were unreasonable. The call handler was clear 
that she needed to clear all of the checks. So although Mr M had been verified as a 
customer, this would not be sufficient on its own for the payment to go through as HSBC 
deemed it necessary to ask extra information in relation to the payment. And when Mr M 
didnt complete all of their checks, they acted in line with the terms to prevent the payment 
being sent. 
HSBCs personal banking terms also show that You must give us any information we 
reasonably ask for as soon as possible. If you dont, or we suspect fraudulent or criminal 
activity of any kind, well have to take action. So I do think the terms are clear that if Mr M 
didnt provide HSBC with the information that they asked for then theyll have to take action. 
One of the actions listed is to block or close your accounts. The terms say You might not 
be able to use some banking services. Again, Mr M is likely to dispute the word reasonably 
here, but as the questions were related to the payment being made, I cant say they acted 
against the terms and conditions by refusing to make the payment when he didnt complete 
the checks on the initial call or to block access to his online banking. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr M rings HSBC about the online banking being blocked. The 
call handler explains it is HSBCs process to ask the security questions. Mr M tells them he 
isnt going to listen to them, and he will just agree to what the call handler says. Mr M keeps 
interrupting the call handler and says he is using too many words. The call handler tries to 
continue but he keeps being interrupted by Mr M, and Mr M then makes noises when the call 
handler reads through his script and interrupts him. This leads to the call handler telling Mr M 
he would need to visit a branch with identification. Mr M asks the call handler to raise a 
complaint about the call handler and he says yes sure, but you have to go to the branch first. 
A call back is promised from the call handlers manager. 
After listening to the call, I cant say that the call handler was wrong to ask Mr M to visit the 
branch with identification. He had earlier told the call handler that he wasnt going to listen, 
he kept interrupting the call handler and made noises when the call handler was talking. So I 
wouldnt expect him to remove the block in these circumstances. I would expect him to tell 
Mr M that he would add to the already open complaint his comments about the call handler 
though. And Mr M did not receive a call back as promised.
Ive considered what happened when Mr M visited the branch. Ive listened to a call he made 
while he was at the branch. As he made the call and not a member of staff, the call handler 
asked Mr M if he could put her on to a member of staff and the call handler asked what 
identification the branch employee had seen. He then had to complete a form for the call handler. But even though the branch manager did this, and confirmed he had seen the 
identification, the call handler continued the process that previous call handlers had tried to 
complete with Mr M without seeing any identification or forms being filled in by the branch.
This led to communication breaking down even between the call handler and the branch 
manager as the branch manager was audibly frustrated by what Mr M needed to go through, 
especially as Mr M had provided identification to him, and the fact he was transferring the 
funds to himself. The call ended with the call handler saying she would remove the 
suspension of the internet banking. But this didnt appear to have happened which caused 
Mr M further distress and inconvenience.
This led to Mr M having to contact HSBC since the internet banking block wasnt removed. 
Mr M was audibly distressed that the block hadnt been removed, and he was unable to 
remove the block to the internet banking on this call 
I know Mr M has concerns that a HSBC blocked his internet banking because he wanted to 
make a complaint against them, but Im not persuaded by this. I say this because the 
internet banking block was applied hours after his call by a different user. I asked HSBC 
about this, and they confirmed that when they could not verify the payment as being 
genuine, they would automatically suspend a customers internet banking.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. HSBC have paid Mr M £40 
for what happened, but Im not persuaded that this recognises the impact of all of HSBCs 
mistakes. These mistakes include not returning the funds after it had been agreed on a call 
on 23 February for the funds to be sent back. From listening to the call this would appear to 
Mr M that this would be reversed within 20 minutes as the call handler saying I reverse back 
to your account. You can check it within 15-20 minutes, and youll get the money, alright? 
HSBC have told me that as the call handler had been unable to confirm if the payment was 
genuine and there was no agreement reached with Mr M to return the payment. But I am 
persuaded listening to the calls that there was an agreement to reverse the payment. It was 
hours later that the funds were actually reversed. Mr M also received inaccurate information 
from the call handler on the call on 25 February, such as information about a complaint 
being made against the call handler and him switching his account elsewhere. The call 
handler also promised Mr M a call back and this didnt happen which would have been 
distressing for Mr M. 
Due to a HSBCs error, the online banking wasnt unblocked when Mr M visited the branch. 
This would have been distressing for Mr M who wouldve returned home to try and access 
his online banking only to find out this hadnt been actioned, and therefore he was 
inconvenienced by having to contact HSBC again, and he had another call which was totally 
avoidable. As the call handler wanted to complete the same procedure which was completed 
in the branch that morning, and Mr M was not prepared to do this again, then it was only 
when he visited the branch again the following day that the block was removed. 
So Ive considered what would be fair compensation for what happened here. In doing so, I 
need to be mindful that Mr M may have been able to mitigate some of what happened by 
completing the security procedure. If he didnt constantly interrupt the call handler on 25 
February call, this may have been resolved without him visiting the branch. The evidence 
Ive seen shows the block was placed on his account on 23 February and it was removed on 
28 February  a total of five days. HSBC confirmed there was no block on his telephone 
banking, and Ive seen no notes, or listened to any calls which leads me to believe 
otherwise.But I also need to consider the impact of the mistakes that HSBC had on Mr M. There were 
several errors during these five days which had an effect on Mr M as Ive already detailed in 
this decision. So Im not persuaded £40 compensation is sufficient for what happened here. 
Im persuaded that HSBC should pay Mr M a further £135 to total £175 compensation for 
what happened, as while the block was only on the account for five days, Mr M was told 
incorrect information several times, the payment wasnt reversed in 15-20 minutes as the call 
handler on 23 February indicated it would be, he did not receive a call back as promised, 
and the internet banking block was not removed when he was in the branch despite the call 
handler saying it would be, which inconvenienced Mr M to contact HSBC again, and he 
visited the branch again on 28 February when it was finally removed. So it follows I intend to 
ask HSBC to put things right for Mr M.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC accepted the provisional decision. Mr M responded and he asked me to 
address the following issues; 
If a user passes security and states that previous transactions were authorised and 
genuine, on what basis is it remotely reasonable to even suspect further payments to 
the same account are not authentic?
If a HSBC agent cannot accept the word of a user that his transactions are genuine, 
why would they accept any answers to scripted questions?
Why is there no back office security staff to refer the issue to?
If there was suspected fraud, why reverse the transaction at all and return funds to 
an account?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr M has that I address his following questions. But 
these relate to HSBCs security process. But as I said in my provisional decision I must 
make it clear to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they 
should operate their security procedures, such as what questions they should ask Mr M, 
when they should block a transaction, when they should block online access and what type 
of accounts they should block payments to  even if they are in the same name of their 
customer. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
So unfortunately, answering these questions do not come under my remit as this addresses 
the suitability of HSBCs security process. Instead, what I looked at as part of the complaint 
that Mr M brought to our service is if HSBC treated Mr M fairly, and I concluded that they did 
let him down when I said in my provisional decision that Mr M was told incorrect information 
several times, the payment wasnt reversed in 15-20 minutes as the call handler on 23 
February indicated it would be, he did not receive a call back as promised, and the internet 
banking block was not removed when he was in the branch despite the call handler saying it 
would be, which inconvenienced Mr M to contact HSBC again, and he visited the branch 
again on 28 February when it was finally removed.
In summary, Mr Ms response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mr M is disappointed, I hope he 
understands my reasons. Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M a total of £175 compensation (less anything they have 
already paid him) for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for 
the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M a total of £175 
compensation (less anything they have already paid him) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman