DRN-2824364
The complaint
Mr H has complained to us about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
on a store card account he took out in December 1999. The policy included cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency
What happened
Mr H says he wasnt given a choice about taking out PPI with his account. He also says he 
didnt need it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. So, as Mr H disagreed, his complaint 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on 
our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate he will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
From what we know, it looks as if Mr Hs card account was taken out by filling in an 
application leaflet when he was in the store. Its unfortunate that we dont have a copy of 
the actual application form  but that isnt surprising after so much time. However, from 
what we know about how these sales took place at around this time, I think Mr H would 
have had the opportunity to agree to taking PPI at the time and to also review the 
application form. Agreeing to taking PPI would usually be by way of a separate section 
on the form where Mr H would have needed to tick a box or sign to show he wanted to 
buy PPI. By leaving it blank he wouldnt have to take the policy. So I think on balance 
Mr H likely had enough opportunity to think about whether he wanted PPI to go with his 
new store card.
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Mr H to decide for himself whether he wanted the PPI 
cover. So, Ive looked at the sale on the basis that AXA needed to give Mr H enough 
information so that he could make an informed choice about whether he wanted to take out 
PPI. Again, from what we know, its likely he received some information about the policy at 
the time of the sale  either by way of details being set out on the account application form 
or by way of the full policy text being sent to him soon afterwards.
It follows that I think Mr H knew or ought to have known that hed agreed to take out PPI 
at the time he was applying for his store card. 
Mr H told us he had some sickness protection already with his job  being at least 
6 months at full pay  - implying he didnt need any PPI. He has also pointed out that at the 
time he lived at home so his outgoings were reduced. I understand why hes made these 
points and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits Mr H says he enjoyed. But these 
dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. He was eligible for the cover and not caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The cost of the 
PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more 
protection than most credit cards. For example, if Mr H had become unable to work or lost 
his job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of his outstanding store card balance each month 
until he returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would 
have been in addition to any other means Mr H had in place at the time, such as the 
savings hes told us about. 
I acknowledge that in all probability AXA perhaps could have set out the information about 
the PPI in a better way, but overall, I think Mr H probably had access to enough information 
to allow him to make an informed decision. It follows that I think that its likely that Mr H did 
agree to the policy and that at the time he would have had to hand the basic information 
about the policy hed would have needed to know when deciding to take it out.  
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Mr H this 
news. Ive also considered in my decision what Mr H has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. But I still dont think its likely that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman