DRN-3365895
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) is holding him liable for a loan 
and credit card he says his ex-wife took out fraudulently and without his knowledge or 
consent. 
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D says that on 16 January 2012 a credit card was taken out in his name without his 
knowledge and a direct debit set up to make payments from a personal account he wasnt 
aware of until the beginning of 2018. Mr D says he has been fighting fraud claims with Bank 
of Scotland since 2015.
Then, on 13 February 2012 Mr D says his ex-wife, who Ill refer to as Miss D, applied for a 
joint loan for £15,040 that he was unaware of. 
Mr D has asked Bank of Scotland for evidence of the loan and credit card applications. He 
says the signature on the loan application is not his and he thinks he might even have been 
working abroad at the time it was taken out. Mr D also says that the police told him the loan 
was taken out online through a well-known price comparison website. In 2014 Mr D and Miss 
D separated and the loan defaulted. Mr D says the situation is affecting his health. 
What Bank of Scotland say
Bank of Scotland say that Mr D requested historic statements in January 2018 and reported 
fraud the following month. 
Bank of Scotlands records show the loan was applied for in branch on 9 February 2012. The 
purpose of the loan was to refinance bank and non-bank debts. The loan agreement was 
signed by Mr and Miss D and fulfilled on 13 February 2012. It was used to repay a loan, to 
pay the outstanding balance on other credit cards and to pay a store card. In addition to this, 
£1,000 was paid into Mr Ds sole account and a further £1,000 into Miss Ds sole account.
Bank of Scotland say there is no evidence the credit card was taken out fraudulently. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ds complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. On 
balance, he concluded that the loan was applied for in branch with both Mr and Miss D 
present. The investigator found it more likely than not that both parties were required to 
produce identification documents. He also noted that the loan was used to pay off an 
existing loan and to reduce the overdrafts of both Mr and Miss D.
The investigator felt it was more likely that not that Mr D also knew about the credit card 
application and personal account. He felt the credit card was taken out online and likely 
discussed in branch at the time the loan was taken out. Also, statements for the credit card 
were sent to Mr Ds home address and there is evidence that Mr D discussed his banking 
arrangements in branch and during calls in the years afterwards. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision so his 
complaint has been passed to me. In summary, he said:
- He has evidence that he raised the issue of fraud with Bank of Scotland in 2015.
- He didnt go into branch and take out the loan.
- The investigator didnt consider all his paperwork that Mr C says show he didnt take 
out the loan or credit card. 
- Statements were sent to an incorrect address until mid-2013. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. I must also 
bear in mind that due to the passage of time some evidence is no longer available. 
Mr D says that he has been fighting this fraud with Bank of Scotland since 2015 and that he 
has provided a letter to demonstrate this. Bank of Scotland say it has no record of a dispute 
until 2018. Ive carefully considered the evidence Mr D has provided and can find no 
evidence of a dispute with Bank of Scotland relating to the fact Mr D says he didnt take out 
the loan and credit card until 2018. I have seen a letter sent to Mr D in October 2016 that 
refers to the fact he changed his address in December 2015, but Bank of Scotland didnt 
change its records. Mr D didnt raise fraud at that time though.  
Loan application
The evidence I have seen shows that Miss D and Mr D applied for a joint loan of £15,040. 
There is a sort-code on the application and in the notes Bank of Scotland staff completed at 
the time that leads me to believe the application was made in branch. The fact that the loan 
application shows two signatures also supports this conclusion  as parties would need to be 
physically present to sign the form. Im aware Mr D disputes this and says a police officer 
told him the loan application was made online through a well-known price comparison site. 
Ive not seen any evidence to support this conclusion, and, as I said before, all the available 
evidence leads me to conclude the application was made in branch.
Given my conclusion that the application was made in branch, its more likely than not that 
both parties would also have had to produce a form of identification to verify they were who 
they said they were, and checks would have been completed. 
Other evidence also leads me to believe Mr D took the loan out and was aware of it. £1,000 
of the loan funds was paid into Mr Ds sole account to reduce his overdraft and the same 
sum was paid into Miss Ds sole account. Mr D says he was unaware this sole account 
existed until 2018 and Ill discuss this later in my decision. But I believe the fact loan funds 
were paid directly to Mr D is compelling evidence that he knew about the loan and benefited 
from the loan funds.
Mr D has provided a work timesheet that says that on the day the loan agreement was 
signed  13 February 2012  he worked from 7am to 3pm so he cant have attended the 
relevant branch to take the loan out. But the timesheet doesnt say where he worked, and in 
any event, branches are open beyond 3pm so I dont believe this evidence demonstrates 
that Mr D didnt go into branch that day. He also says hes proved the signature on the credit 
agreement wasnt his. Ive not seen any evidence of this although I have noted what Mr D 
has told me. Given the other available evidence I consider it more likely than not that Mr D 
was present when the loan agreement was signed. 
Credit cardIm aware that Mr D says he didnt apply for a credit card in 2012. Its difficult to know for 
sure what happened at the time given it was so long ago and recollections fade over time 
and records of how the account was opened are no longer available. 
I have seen a credit agreement which was signed on 5 January 2012. Im aware Mr D says 
the signature on the agreement isnt his but havent seen any evidence. Im not a 
handwriting expert, but it seems to me the signature on the loan is sufficiently similar to that 
on the loan application for me to conclude it was signed by the same person. Ive explained 
above why Im persuaded on balance that Mr D was present in branch and signed the loan 
application, so it follows Im also persuaded its more likely than not that he signed the credit 
card application too. 
Having reviewed statements for the credit card account and Mr Ds sole account Im 
persuaded Mr D made regular payments from his sole account from 2012 to pay off this 
credit card. Given this, I consider it more likely than not he was aware of the credit card and 
of the transactions that were made on the account. I dont believe Mr D would have made 
regular payments for a credit card debt he didnt know he had. Im aware Mr D says he also 
wasnt aware of the personal account in his sole name that the payments were made from 
and will discuss this later in my decision. 
I also dont consider the pattern of spending on the credit card was typical for a fraudster. A 
fraudster will maximise spending and not make repayments, which wasnt what happened 
here. The account was used for everyday spending and regular payments were made to it 
from an account in Mr Ds sole name. Credit card statements were also regularly sent to Mr 
D. 
Sole account
Mr D says he was unaware of the sole account £1,000 of the loan funds was paid into on 13 
February 2012. Credit card payments were also made from this account. He told Bank of 
Scotland that he first became aware of this account in January 2018. Ive carefully 
considered Mr Ds statements for this account from January 2012. I can see that the account 
was opened before part of the loan was paid in and had an overdrawn balance of around 
£200 when the loan was taken out. 
Ive also noted that there are regular monthly credits into the sole account £1,000 of the 
February 2012 loan was paid into. Based on the occupation Mr D listed on the complaint 
form he completed for this service and the company the payments come from, Im 
persuaded that the credits were from Mr Ds employer. In the circumstances, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Mr D was unaware of this account until January 2018. Im 
persuaded Mr D knew about this account and had control of it. I can also see the account 
was used for some household bills and general expenses. 
I appreciate that for a limited period statements for this account were sent to an incorrect 
address, but this in itself doesnt mean Mr D was unaware of it.
Mr D has provided evidence that his marketing preferences were changed on 13 February 
2012 so that permission was withdrawn for mail and telephone contact. But this only relates 
to marketing material and has no bearing on other correspondence issued to Mr D across all 
his accounts. So, I dont believe this demonstrates Mr D wasnt aware of the loan, credit card 
and sole account as he suggests. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to fairly conclude the loan or credit card were taken out 
fraudulently or a personal account was opened without Mr Ds knowledge. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman