DRN-4279120
The complaint
Mr X is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) ceased providing cover under his 
travel insurance policy whilst abroad. Hes also unhappy with the assistance and service he 
received before it ended cover.
What happened
Mr X has a travel insurance policy linked to his bank account (the policy). He booked a trip 
abroad, to a country Ill refer to as U, commencing February 2023.
Whilst abroad, Mr X says he became unwell and couldnt make his return flight. Mr X didnt 
notify IPA of this until a couple of days after. But it agreed to provide assistance and cover
the costs of accommodation on the condition he provide it with updated medical reports
about his health, the reasons why he wasnt fit to fly and evidence that he tested positive for
Covid-19 (and that he hadnt received a negative test subsequently).
Between the date Mr X first contacted IPA for assistance - around 23 February 2023 - and
IPA taking the decision to end cover under the policy - on 7 March 2023 - IPA had arranged
a few return flights for Mr X which ended up being put back and rearranged because
Mr X says he wasnt well enough to travel.
During this period, Mr X provided several medical reports  based mainly on telephone
consultations with medical professionals. And, at various times, IPA requested that Mr X
obtain more detailed medical reports.
Further, Mr X required assistance from IPA to arrange alternative accommodation for him
whilst away. He says his requests were handled very poorly, causing him significant upset.
Mr X says hes autistic and his symptoms are exacerbated by stress. And that IPA failed to
understand from the outset the way in which his autism impacts him. So, it failed to make
reasonable adjustments to the way in which it communicated with him and, on occasions, 
when arranging suitable accommodation for him.
IPA ended up ceasing cover under the policy whilst Mr X was still abroad because it said he
had tried to exaggerate his claim and made a deliberate misrepresentation about the cabin
class hed originally booked for the return flight. It also said he hadnt provided documents
required to substantiate that he wasnt well enough to fly back to the UK and it wasnt able to
continue supporting his claim any further.
It said it would cease covering any further expenses incurred by Mr X in respect of his trip to
U, although it said it wasnt going to seek to recover from him the expenses it had already
paid under the policy. 
Further, IPA didnt withdraw the offer to cover the flight home it had already arranged for Mr 
X to travel back to the UK, on 9 March 2023. Mr X ended up flying back to the UK on 10/11 
March 2023.
Unhappy with the way in which hed been treated, Mr X complained to the Financial
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the
majority of Mr Xs concerns. She concluded that IPA had acted fairly and reasonably by
ending cover under the policy when it did.
However, she didnt think IPA had fully understood the impact Mr Xs autism had on him and
if it had sought to understand his needs, it couldve provided him with a better service and
managed his expectations around certain issues relating to his claim and the assistance
being provided. She recommended IPA pay Mr X £250 compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
IPA accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr X did not. So, his complaint was
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. I issued my provisional decision in 
July 2023, also partially upholding Mr Xs claim. I explained why I intended to direct IPA to 
do more to put things right. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below. 

At the outset I acknowledge Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties
have, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues
here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an
informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because
Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to
be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims
promptly and fairly - and a claim shouldnt be unreasonably rejected.
Did IPA fairly end cover under the policy?
Exaggerating the claim / making a deliberate misrepresentation
IPAs contact notes reflect that on 7 March 2023, it discovered that Mr X had modified an
email hed received from the airline dated 22 February 2023 (the airlines email). And rather
than void the entire policy, it decided to cease cover for the trip to U with immediate effect.
I think the Insurance Act 2015 is a relevant consideration in this case as its relevant law.
Essentially, that says if a claim is false or exaggerated, its fraudulent and the insurer can act
in response, including not paying the claim and seeking reimbursement for the monies paid
for the fraudulent claim.
Further, the general conditions of the policy terms and conditions say:
You must comply with the following conditions to have the full protection of this
policy. If you do not comply we may at our option refuse to deal with your claim, or
reduce the amount of any claim payment.
And:
If you or anyone acting for you in any respect, attempts to gain funds, information
or other assets by deception or any other illegal means, including deliberatemisrepresentation or omission of facts in order to misrepresent the true situation, this
policy shall become void. We may inform the police and you must repay to us any
amount already received under the policy.
But I dont think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to rely on that term to decline the claim in
the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Mr X provided the airlines email to IPA around 24 February 2023 and it had been uploaded
to its system. The airlines email is dated 22 February 2023 and says Mr X didnt arrive for
his flight on Monday evening. Im satisfied that he uploaded the airlines email at the time to
support he didnt take his arranged flight back to the UK.
When providing the airlines email to IPA, Mr X had redacted an email the airline had sent
him a couple of day prior (on the date he was due to fly back to the UK)  which was part of
the email chain (the redacted email).
The redacted email reflects that hed received a complimentary upgrade to upper-class on
the outbound flight to U. And it couldnt facilitate the same arrangement for the return flight.
He was invited to speak with the check in desk on arrival at the airport to see if he could
purchase an upgrade. But upper class was fully booked so only premium economy would be
available. He was also told of his seat number if he wished to remain in the economy cabin.
Mr X says that he redacted this part of the email chain because hes very sensitive about
keeping his data protected, which is heightened because of his autism. Im satisfied that hes
been very consistent that this is very important to him. And I find his submissions plausible
and credible. I accept what he says about that.
Im not persuaded that Mr X was intending to deliberately misrepresent the class of return
flight hed booked. Nor am I persuaded that he redacted this part of the email chain at the
time it was uploaded because he was intending to exaggerate his claim. Or that he didnt
want IPA to see the content of the redacted email because it showed that hed booked an
economy class return flight.
The airlines email was uploaded many days before IPA and Mr X started discussing the
return flight home. Mr X had also provided IPA with a ticket headed interrupted travel which
was also sent on 24 February 2023. That clearly shows the flight number, the times for the
return flight, the allocated seat number and that its in economy. Both documents were
uploaded at the same time. So, I think its unlikely that Mr X wouldve provided IPA with this
ticket if he was intending to exaggerate his claim by redacting the email chain as IPA has
concluded.
Its clear from IPAs contact notes that Mr X told IPA that he wanted to fly back to the UK in
premium economy. Theres also mention of him wanting to fly back first class as hed flown
first class to U. But I dont think Mr X told IPA that his original itinerary included a premium
economy return flight back to the UK. I think IPA has unfairly misinterpreted what Mr X has
said.
IPAs contact notes reflect that on:
2 March 2023: Mr X found out the flights were economy options and he said he
wont accept it as initial trip was in 1st class.
3 March 2023: IPA again asked for Mr X to provide his flight booking confirmation to
book his return ticket with the same conditions as per your policy terms and
conditions. An email is also sent on the same date requesting Mr Xs full flightbooking confirmation which shows his cabin class.
4 March 2023: IPAs representative called to ask him about his return flight and that it
was still waiting for his flight booking documents as it only had his outbound boarding
pass on file. Mr X became aggressive when asked for inbound flight booking
document as he says he sent that a week ago.
4 March 2023: Mr X demanded business class as he flew business class. I asked
him to send proof that he flew business class.
5 March 2023: boarding pass was receivedboarding pass showing premium.
5 March 2023: Mr X was unhappy that hed sent his boarding pass confirming that he
was flying premium economy and still IPA was booking an economy seat. He was
told that IPA was booking him a premium class seat.
Im satisfied that Mr X had paid extra to travel premium class to U (and he was also given a
complimentary upgrade to fly upper class on the way to U). And, based on what Ive seen,
as reflected above, Im satisfied that he was trying to convey to IPA that hed paid to fly to U
premium economy and that he should therefore be entitled to a premium economy return
flight. 
He may have been mistaken in that belief, but Im not convinced, on a balance of
probabilities, that he was seeking to exaggerate his claim by at any time claiming to have
paid or booked a return flight back to the UK premium class. And the boarding passes IPA
has on file from Mr X dont show that hed misrepresented pre-paying for a premium class
return ticket. Indeed, the boarding pass Mr X sent is for the outbound flight to U and shows
that hed been booked into premium class.
Its unclear why IPA agreed to book a premium class ticket for the return flight to the UK
relying on the boarding pass for the outbound ticket. But I dont think I can fairly conclude
that this was based on any misrepresentation made by Mr X. If it had any further queries,
IPA was free to raise these with Mr X before agreeing to cover a premium class return flight.
But it didnt.
Im satisfied that the documents Mr X provided at the time supported that he paid for a
premium class ticket to U, rather than seeking to establish that hed originally pre-booked
and paid for a return premium economy class ticket.
I know IPA also says its identified by using software that Mr X altered the original booking
online booking information for the entire trip on 24 February 2023 when sending that
document to IPA. However, its been unable to identify whats been changed. I note that
there is a redaction on the document but theres nothing to suggest  and IPA hasnt
concluded  that anything relating to the class of ticket booked has been deleted. So, Ive
placed less weight on this and think its most likely that the redaction relates to personal
information belonging to Mr X such as his contact details given that the redaction is at the
top of the page. Theres nothing on the original booking confirmation reflecting the cabin
class of either the outbound or inbound flights.
IPA also says Mr X was reluctant to provide evidence of his booking and boarding passes. I 
can see from the contact notes that he said on more than one occasion that such evidence 
had been provided around a week ago, which Im satisfied is right. Mr X had emailed the 
information around 24 February 2023. So, I dont think his reluctance was suspicious; I can understand why he didnt feel the need to send the same information again  although he did 
end up doing so.
Fit to fly
When ceasing to provide cover, IPA also said:
Since the beginning of your case we have received multiple medical certificates,
none of which included information of any tests, investigations, lab results,
treatments etc that would have medically justified your extended stay overseas. Most
of these reports do not have any confirmed diagnosis, only one stating that you have
COVID-19 as reported by you.
Its relied on the following clause of the policys general conditions to also cease providing
cover on 7 March 2023 whilst Mr X was still abroad:
You must provide all necessary documentation requested by us on page 26 & 25 at
your expense. We may also request more documentation than what is listed to
substantiate your claim. If you do not provide this any claim may be refused.
Again, I dont think its fair and reasonable for IPA to rely on this condition to cease coverage
of the claim at the time it did.
Mr X was told earlier on 7 March 2023 after its medical team had further reviewed the recent
medical information provided on behalf of Mr X, that IPA would continue to cover the case
for now. Im satisfied from reading the contact notes that this was due to the medical team
concluding that it couldnt overrule the most recent medical report which concluded that Mr X
had a viral infection and wasnt fit to fly.
IPA asked Mr X to confirm when he planned to make his follow up visit with his doctor so
that it could further assist with accommodation. It also asked for Mr X to request a full
medical report from the doctor on his next visit.
So, at the time that IPA notified Mr X that it would cease covering the claim with immediate
effect, Im not satisfied that Mr X was fit to fly  as evidenced by Mr Xs medical report dated
6 March 2023, which wasnt contested by IPAs medical team. It had expected Mr X to
obtain a further medical report the next time he visited the doctor  which wasnt
unreasonable. But I dont think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to use that as a reason
stop coverage.
The service provided to Mr X
Trying to establish whether Mr X was fit to fly
For the reasons set out above, I dont think IPA has fairly concluded that Mr X hadnt
provided sufficient medical evidence, as requested, to enable it to continue coverage under
the policy as of 7 March 2023.
However, I think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to request that Mr X provide updated
medical reports throughout the period before then  and a positive Covid test  so that it
could consider whether Mr X was fit to fly back to the UK. And whether it should continue
providing cover for his expenses such as accommodation costs.
The initial medical report uploaded by Mr X dated 20 February 2023 reflects that he needs
time to recuperate and should be excused from flying (later that day). He was symptomaticand currently not feeling well. Given the lack of information, I think it was reasonable for IPA
to request a more detailed medical report.
A medical report dated 25 February 2023 reflects that Mr X was feeling anxious secondary
to his diagnosis with Covid and feeling overall discomfort. It was recommended that Mr X
follow up in one week.
I understand that the reference to a positive diagnosis with Covid was based on a lateral flow
test Mr X had carried out but hadnt provided evidence of this to IPA. Further, the medical 
report dated 25 February 2023 doesnt confirm the doctor saw a lateral flow test with a 
positive result.
So, I think IPA acted fairly by offering to arrange a personal visit to Mr X on 1 March 2023 for
a Covid-19 test to be undertaken. I can understand the reasons why Mr X declined this offer 
 given his personal circumstances and that he was feeling particularly anxious at the time 
but its not unreasonable for IPA to request medical evidence to validate the claim to
continue covering expenses under the policy. Nor do I think IPA acted unreasonably by
taking steps to arrange a return flight for Mr X for around 3 March 2023 (which wouldve
been day seven of his positive Covid-19 test) given the available medical evidence.
I can see that that return flight was subsequently put on hold given that Mr X said he was
still feeling unwell, and then obtaining a further medical report dated 4 March 2023 which
reflects that he was feeling sick and had a fever. But the report also reflected that a
comprehensive physical examination couldnt be performed because the consultation took
place over the phone. Mr X was advised to take a Covid test, and he was unable to fly until
the results were known.
In the circumstances, I dont think IPA acted unreasonably by requesting Mr X visit one of its
network of doctors in person, which he proceeded to do on 5 March 2023. That report
reflects Mr X had a viral illness and it was recommended he didnt fly because he may be
contagious to others.
Im not a medical expert. But in light of this report, I dont think IPA unreasonably concluded
that being potentially contagious to someone else didnt mean Mr X wasnt fit to fly. And the
medical report doesnt set out any medical risks to Mr X if he did fly.
Mr X has referred to it being a criminal offence in the region he was in for someone to
knowingly transmit an infectious disease. But having considered this health and safety code,
I dont think this would be applicable in Mr Xs situation because if he had flown at the time,
its unlikely he would be deemed to be acting with a specific intent to transmit an infectious
disease to someone else particularly if he was able to take precautions to avoid
transmission. I also note from the expenses Mr X is seeking to claim that he was frequently
taking taxis during the period he says he was unwell so, it looks like the same legal risk
wouldve applied if he wasnt taking precautions when taking those journeys.
But in any event, a further medical report dated 6 March 2023 reflects that Mr X saw a
different practitioner also on 5 March 2023 and he was diagnosed with a viral upper
respiratory infection. Its reflected that Mr X reported to have encountered someone whod
recently tested positive for Covid, and he was advised that he shouldnt fly at this time as he
was considered to be contagious to others. Mr X was asked to follow up within the next
week for further assessment.
That report was promptly provided to IPA on the same day and as a result, IPAs medical
team concluded that it wouldnt go against the conclusions of the medical report I referred to
above, IPA agreed to continue covering the claim for now. That was to Mr Xs benefit, and Ithink this was fair and reasonable.
Arranging and authorising accommodation
From the outset, Mr X notified IPA that he was autistic. And its also reflected in IPAs
contact notes dated 25 February 2023 that Mr X informed IPA that his autism is exacerbated
by anxiety and secondary to feeling unwell with Covid-19, he was feeling extremely anxious.
Around this time, it no longer became possible for Mr X to extend his stay at the hotel (and
in the room) hed booked as part of his original trip. So, he asked IPA to cover the cost of
accommodation elsewhere under the policy.
IPA informed Mr X of the hotel and room type which its travel agent had found. Mr X was
unhappy with the room size as it was much smaller than the room hed booked and been
staying in up until that point. He said he specifically booked that room because it was
accessible and spacious. It was less claustrophobic and helped regulate his anxiety,
heightened by his autism. He said the room hed booked was 800 square feet whereas the
room he was being offered was 270 square feet.
I can see that the communications around this time became strained and I dont condone the
language that its reflected Mr X used at the time in the contact notes. I can understand
why IPA provided warnings about some of the language used, terminated calls and notified
Mr X that if he continued to behave in this manner, it would consider only liaising with him in
writing, rather than over the phone.
However, I also dont think IPA reasonably did enough at the outset to try to understand the
impact Mr Xs autism had on him and why, specifically, he required a larger room. If it had
done so, I think its likely that Mr X wouldnt have become as anxious and frustrated.
Under the policy terms, when a persons trip is extended because theyre unwell, cover is
provided for necessary and reasonable accommodation costs. Im satisfied that Mr X tried to
explain to IPA why, given his circumstances, an alternative room of similar size would be
necessary and reasonable, and, from his perspective, I understand why he asked for other
options. This conversation is noted to have taken place at 03.26am (GMT+1) on 26 February
2023; Mr X having first asking for an update about what was happening with his hotel
accommodation, noted at 22:50 (GMT+1) on 25 February 2023, around five hours earlier.
Mr X was then informed Mr X at 03:46am (GMT+1) that it would need to obtain authorisation
from IPAs underwriter after the weekend. For now, IPA could only offer him the hotel option
already offered, and if he wanted a different room, hed have to pay himself and then claim
the cost back.
I accept from what Mr X said at the time that he was feeling very anxious. He said it was
getting very late in U and he was worried where he was going to stay for the night. Mr X was
put in a very vulnerable position, and I accept this needlessly exacerbated an already difficult
and worrying time for him. Mr X then asked if he sent proof of his autism whether IPA could
do anything more to help him. IPAs representative replied they would speak to their team
leader and call him back as soon as possible, and within the next half an hour.
Despite Mr X calling IPA twice for updates, sending emails and being late evening in U, he
didnt receive a call back until 07.20am (GMT+1)  more than three hours later. He was told
that the manager hadnt approved his request. The contact notes reflect that the
conversation between IPAs representative and their team manager took place around two
hours before this. I cant see any reason in the notes why the call back to Mr X took so long
and I think it was unreasonable in the circumstances of this case given how late in the daythis was, with him still not knowing whether a larger room would be authorised and given that
he was told to expect a call back within half an hour which didnt happen.
It wasnt until 08.04am (GMT+1) that IPAs representative approved a room which was over
300 square feet in size which Mr X confirmed was the minimum size hed require.
If IPA had tried to understand the impact of Mr Xs autism and why he needed a bigger room
than the one it had proposed, as I think it reasonably ought to have done, and hadnt
unreasonably delayed making a decision, I think Mr X wouldve received the same
information many hours before.
As it transpired due to the time IPA authorised the room agreed with Mr X, its agents werent
able to book the room for that night. So, I can understand why Mr X was so upset and
frustrated by being told this  and that he would have to personally pay for the room, with
IPA covering payment from the following day if available.
In an email dated 27 February 2023 to IPA, Mr X says he felt violated, overwhelmed and
stressed by the experience on 25/26 February 2023 regarding the booking of the hotel
room. He said it had made his health worse, that IPA had shown indifference to his autism 
which he described as a disability  and that it failed to make reasonable adjustments.
He said that he arrived at the hotel after 23:30 local time, and on arrival was told that a room
hadnt been booked. He said he was left in limbo, stranded outside the hotel in treacherous
conditionsleft with no known expectations And the whole situation was made worse by
his anxiety and autism. Ive seen no convincing reason to doubt what he says about that,
and Im satisfied that this couldve been avoided had IPA done what it shouldve earlier in the
day.
Im satisfied that Mr X experienced significant distress and inconvenience, particularly taking
into account that he wasnt feeling well at the time.
Distress and inconvenience
In addition to the distress and inconvenience experienced by what happened on 25/26
February 2023, Im satisfied for reasons set out above that Mr X was put to significant and
unnecessary distress and inconvenience by IPA unfairly and unreasonably deciding to cease
covering the claim and providing assistance to Mr X when it did on 7 September 2023.
I understand that Mr X ended up travelling back to the UK on 10/11 March 2023. Thats after
the return flight IPA had booked for him on 9 March 2023 before cover was withdrawn.
Theres no way of knowing whether Mr X was fit to fly before the date he eventually travelled
back to the UK and after IPA withdrew cover. Cover had been withdrawn so he was under
no obligation to obtain a further medical report for IPA to consider. But given that Mr X didnt
fly back on the flight IPA had booked for 9 March 2023, I think its fair to assume in the
absence of any other information to the contrary that he didnt feel well enough to take that
flight and so took a different flight a day or so later.
I think being left with no insurance cover and having to continue to pay for his expenses
when hed already told IPA that he had limited funds wouldve been worrying for him. And
that this further exacerbated the stress he was feeling and inconvenience he experienced.
Looking at the cumulative impact this had on Mr X, Im currently satisfied IPA should pay
him compensation in the sum of £1,500. I think that fairly reflects the distress and
inconvenience he experienced because of what IPA did wrong in this case...
Given the policy ended whilst Mr X was still away, I didnt think hed had an opportunity to
submit a claim, detailing his out-of-pocket costs whilst away with documentary evidence.
So, in addition to provisionally directing IPA to pay Mr X £1,500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  and within 28 days from Mr X submitting a claim under the policy in 
respect of the trip - I provisionally directed IPA to reassess Mr Xs claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy on the basis that:
- he hasnt tried to exaggerate his claim by deliberately misrepresenting hed booked
and paid for a return flight back to the UK in premium economy class;
- he had provided sufficient medical evidence by 7 March 2023 when IPA took the
decision to end cover under the policy and he wasnt fit to fly at that time, as agreed
by its medical team;
- he wasnt fit to fly until he returned to the UK on 10/11 March 2023
Response to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide any further information in response to my provisional 
decision.
IPA accepted my provisional decision. Mr X also agreed with my intended outcome but said 
that hed already submitted his claim form to IPA with all documentary evidence of the costs 
being claimed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr X and IPA agreed with my provisional findings, so Im satisfied that theres no 
reason for me to depart from my provisional findings. For this reason, and for reasons set 
out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out above and forms part of my final 
decision) I partially uphold Mr Xs complaint. 
Mr Xs financial losses
Mr X says his financial losses total around £5,500 including but not limited to 
accommodation costs he paid (before and after cover under the policy for this trip ended), 
travel (taxi fares), prescription costs and telephone calls.
In light of what Mr X said in response to the provisional decision, our investigator asked IPA 
whether it had received details of all financial losses being claimed together with supporting 
documentary evidence. IPA said it had no record of doing so. 
Our investigator then asked Mr X when hed submitted the claim form and supporting 
evidence to IPA. He provided evidence of emails that hed sent to IPA around 8 March 2023 
and recently in August 2023 with documents supporting his expenditure whilst abroad and 
other financial losses.Putting things right
I dont know whether IPA would require any further information from Mr X relating to the 
losses hes claiming under the policy. But to avoid any further delays, I think its fair and 
reasonable for IPA to promptly consider the information its received and if it requires any 
further information from Mr X, I direct IPA to request this from him within 14 days from the 
date of being notified by our Service that Mr X accepts this final decision. 
Within14 days from the date Mr X submits any further information requested by IPA, I also 
direct IPA to reassess Mr Xs claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy on the basis 
that:
- he hasnt tried to exaggerate his claim by deliberately misrepresenting hed booked
and paid for a return flight back to the UK in premium economy class;
- he had provided sufficient medical evidence by 7 March 2023 when IPA took the
decision to end cover under the policy and he wasnt fit to fly at that time, as agreed
by its medical team;
- he wasnt fit to fly until he returned to the UK on 10/11 March 2023
If IPA doesnt require any further information from Mr X in relation to his claim and financial 
losses being claimed, I direct IPA to assess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy (and on the basis set out above) within 28 days from the date on which our Service 
notifies it that Mr X accepts this final decision.
 
I also direct IPA to pay Mr X £1,500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience within 
28 days from the date on which our Service notifies IPA that Mr X accepts this final decision.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Xs complaint and I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman