DRN-2837841
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he took out a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC it misled him 
about whether hed be able to register a deed of trust. 
 
What happened
Mr Bs relative, who Ill refer to as Mrs B, owned a property with her ex-partner. Mrs B and 
her ex-partner had a joint mortgage with Barclays. They separated and Mrs B struggled to 
maintain mortgage payments. Mrs B needed funds to pay her ex-partner his share of the 
equity in the property. However, she was unable to take out a mortgage, and she didnt want 
to sell her house.
In late 2019 Mr B took out a mortgage to help Mrs B, so she could remain in her house. 
Mr Bs grandparents gifted money to help. The property was transferred into Mr Bs name. 
Although the mortgage is in Mr Bs name, he says Mrs B makes all the payments. And he 
says he was told by Barclays hed be able to put a deed of trust in place so that Mrs B would 
benefit from the equity in the property. However, after taking out the mortgage Barclays said 
it wouldnt allow this.
Mr B says Barclays told Mrs B it would do everything it could to help her, and has gone back 
on this. And hes now unable to take out a mortgage to buy another property.
Barclays said it didnt agree to a deed of trust as it would affect its security. It said it was 
possible Mr B had been given wrong information by an adviser and offered £75 for the upset 
caused. Barclays said it would agree to Mrs B having a second charge so she would benefit 
from the proceeds of a sale, after its mortgage loan was repaid.
Our investigator said Mr B had taken legal advice before taking out the mortgage and this 
should have been discussed as part of that process. She said it was likely Mr B would have 
still taken out the mortgage if hed known the deed of trust wasnt possible as the other 
option was to sell the property. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said the mortgage had to be put in place quickly due to a court order. 
He said he couldnt borrow money against a second charge on the property as the equity 
isnt really his. Mr B said he wasnt told that taking out this mortgage would mean hed be 
unable to take out another mortgage to buy his own home. Mr said if theyd been given 
correct information theyd have looked at other options. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry for the circumstances that led to this complaint. Mrs B is worried about losing 
her home, which has been adapted for the needs of a family member that she cares for. I 
understand why Mr B wanted to help. And I can also understand how upset he is that the 
situation theyre in now isnt what hed expected. 
What I must do here though is consider whether Barclays made an error, and if it did what it 
should do to put matters right. And I must be clear about the complaint that Im considering 
here. Mrs B raised a separate complaint with Barclays and this service. Im not looking into 
Mrs Bs complaint here or making any findings about it  although its important background 
to the complaint I am looking into. Here, Im looking into Mr Bs complaint that he was told by 
Barclays hed be able to put a deed of trust in place, and after taking out the mortgage was 
told this wasnt possible.
From what Mr B has said, he has two main concerns. He wants to protect Mrs Bs interest in 
the security property. And hes worried that hes now unable to take out a mortgage to buy a 
property for himself to live in.
After separating from her partner Mrs B, understandably, wanted to stay in her home. 
However, her ex-partner wanted to be taken off the mortgage account and to receive his 
share of the equity in the property. Barclays declined Mrs Bs application to transfer the joint 
mortgage she had with her ex-partner into her sole name. It also declined Mrs B and Mr Bs 
joint mortgage application. This was the subject of a separate complaint and so I wont look 
into it here. However, Ive read what Mr B has said about problems with affordability being 
due to debts taken out in Mrs Bs name without her consent or knowledge.
Barclays did offer a mortgage to Mr B in his sole name. The property was transferred into 
Mr Bs name. Mr B says he agreed to this on the basis theyd put a deed of trust in place to 
protect Mrs Bs equity in the property.
After taking out the mortgage Mr B asked Barclays for consent to register a deed of trust. 
Barclays didnt agree, saying it would affect its security. While its possible Barclays gave 
Mr B incorrect information about agreeing to the deed of trust during the application process, 
there isnt written evidence to support this and call recordings arent available. 
Barclays said it would agree to Mr B and Mrs B putting in place an arrangement with a 
second charge and a deed of postponement. I asked Mr B why he didnt think a second 
charge would work, and I think there might have been a misunderstanding. Mr B said he 
didnt want to take out a second charge loan as the equity isnt his . But I think Barclays 
proposal is that the second charge would be in favour of Mrs B. This should mean Mrs B 
receives funds from the sale of the property, once the mortgage loan from Barclays is repaid. 
While this isnt what Mr B thought would happen, I think this is a fair response. Mr B might 
want to consider taking advice, from a solicitor or independent financial adviser, about this.
I think its reasonable for Barclays to protect its security for the mortgage loan. And its 
suggested a way for Mr B to protect Mrs Bs interests. I dont think its fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to require Barclays to allow Mr B to register a deed of trust.
Mr B says hes unable to take out another mortgage to buy a property. I dont think this is 
due to Barclays not agreeing to the deed of trust. Its more likely due to lenders assessing 
another mortgage as unaffordable. While Mr B says the Barclays mortgage is in name only 
(as Mrs B makes the payments) when he took out the mortgage he agreed to be liable to 
make the mortgage payments. If Mrs B stopped making payments for any reason Barclays 
would be able to ask Mr B to make the payments. Its likely lenders will take this potential 
cost into account when assessing whether to lend to Mr B.
Mr B says theyd have looked into other options if theyd known Barclays wouldnt agree to a 
deed of trust, including selling the property. But from what hes said they wanted to avoid 
having to sell the house, and had limited time to put another solution in place. I cant see 
anything in the fact find or application that suggests Mr B told Barclays he intended to apply for another mortgage in the near future. Or that he was only taking out the mortgage on the 
basis hed put a deed of trust in place. 
Barclays offered a solution to protect Mrs Bs interest in the property  for her to have the 
benefit of a second charge. Mr B says Mrs Bs income exceeds his, and the debts that 
caused her problems with affordability were taken out without her knowledge or consent. 
Mr B and Mrs B could consider taking advice (which might be available without charge from 
debt advisory services) to see if this situation can be improved.
If Mr B is considering selling the property, or re-mortgaging, he should bear in mind that an 
early repayment charge (ERC) will apply if the mortgage is repaid before the end of October 
2021.
Putting things right
Barclays says while theres no evidence this is the case, its possible Mr B was given 
incorrect information about the possibility of it agreeing to a deed of trust during the 
application process. It offered £75 compensation for any upset this caused. I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £75 to Mr B, as it offered to do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman