DRN-1118597
 
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr D took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit cards by post. Mr D applied 
for both a Visa and a Mastercard at the same time and PPI was attached to each card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he wasnt made aware that the policy was optional. Ive seen the application form 
that Mr D completed. There is a separate section for PPI with Yes and No boxes that could 
be ticked to either request or decline the PPI. Mr D has ticked the Yes box. If Mr D could 
have ticked the No box if he didnt want the policies. I consider that Mr D would have known 
from the wording and layout of the form that he had a choice about taking out PPI. The sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ds recollection of events 
has faded. It seems to me that Mr D decided to buy the policies, knowing that he didnt have 
to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays didnt advise Mr D to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr D with sufficient information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not it was right for him.
I think Mr D would have known something about the policy  that it would have covered his 
credit card repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I dont think hed have opted for the PPI without knowing anything about it at all.
Mr D would have received six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, as sick pay 
from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr D would have received full pay for. And Mr D didnt have any other means, 
such as savings, to fall back on. So I think that Mr D had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman