DRN-2218218
The complaint
Mrs J says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI).
AXA France IARD has taken responsibility for the sale.
What happened
Mrs J took out a store card with PPI in 2004.
The policy covered Mrs J if she was too ill to work or had an accident, or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint because I dont think AXA gave Mrs J clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because she has told us she was suffering from 
medical conditions at the time she took the policy out. 
AXA has said the conditions would not have changed Mrs Js decision to take the policy as 
they are manageable conditions and she may not have thought she would need to claim for 
them. But I think this would have mattered to Mrs J because the medical conditions were 
ongoing and can cause long term health issues. The conditions would not have been 
covered under the policy.
I dont think Mrs J wouldve bought the policy if AXA had given her enough information about 
it. So, I think Mrs J has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
How it does this will depend on whether Mrs Js store card account is still active or has been
closed. Ive noted that the PPI policy is already cancelled.
If Mrs Js account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs J would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs J owes and what she would
have owed.
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs J would have owed each month without PPI 
Mrs J paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest
on the extra Mrs J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs J
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
C. AXA should tell Mrs J what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Js account has been closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs J would have owed when she closed her store card
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs J owed when she closed her
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs J would have owed
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs J would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs J
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the
extra Mrs J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs J
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs J what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs J that relates to this PPI
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, AXA France IARD need to put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman