DRN-3957008
The complaint
Mr H complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to prevent him losing money 
to an alleged investment scam.
Mr H has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly just 
refer to and will ascribe the representatives comments to Mr H.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I will keep my summary 
of what happened brief and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr H says he saw a celebrity endorsed advert for an investment firm that Ill refer to as T. 
He says initially he made a small deposit of £200, which was not made through Wise. Then 
in July 2022 he transferred £5,000 from his account with another bank to Wise and then onto 
a crypto exchange platform  B, for the purchase of cryptoassets which he believed were 
used to fund his investment with T. Mr H realised hed fallen victim to a scam when T 
refused to let him withdraw his funds, its website disappeared, and it ceased communication.
Mr H reported the matter to Wise. He asked it to reimburse him as he believed it had failed 
to protect him from a scam. Wise didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and the matter was referred 
to our service. Our Investigator concluded as there had been no failure by Wise which had 
resulted in a loss to Mr H, it didnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. Mr H 
did not accept the Investigators assessment and asked that an Ombudsman review the 
case.
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. I appreciate the outcome will 
be disappointing for Mr H, and Im genuinely sorry to hear about his loss, but I cant fairly 
and reasonably ask Wise to refund this. And as Im providing a greater level of detail, Im 
issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before 
finalising my decision.
Mr H has allegedly suffered his loss because of fraudsters, and this doesnt automatically 
entitle him to a refund from Wise. In this case, it would only be fair for me to tell Wise to 
reimburse Mr H his loss (or part of it) if I thought Wise reasonably ought to have prevented 
the payment in the first place; it unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds after Mr H had 
notified it of the alleged scam; and if I was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
It is accepted that Mr H authorised the relevant payments, albeit I understand he says he 
was tricked by scammers into doing so. Wise would generally be expected to process 
payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. That being said, as a matter of good industry practice Wise should have taken 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, 
uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a 
scam. However, there are many payments made by customers each day and its not realistic 
or reasonable to expect Wise to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In this case I understand Mr Hs Wise account was newly opened; there was effectively no 
account history aside from two £20 top ups and a £40 transfer out, before the disputed 
payment, for Wise to refer back to, in order to assess whether this payment ought to be 
regarded as sufficiently unusual to warrant intervention. This doesnt mean Wise shouldnt
still have been on the lookout for unusual or suspicious activity. And Ive taken on board the
points Mr H makes for why he thinks the payment ought to have concerned Wise. But I dont
think Wise not intervening in these specific circumstances was unreasonable. I say this 
because Mr Hs account was newly opened so no established pattern of use and no specific 
purpose for the account was known to Wise at the time. It wouldnt be particularly 
uncommon for users of an electronic money institute (EMI) account, like this one, to open 
the account and use it in this way. Wise when asked has also confirmed that it didnt know 
the payment was being made to B and/or that it was for the purchase of cryptoassets. I also 
havent seen anything about the payment instruction that would have informed Wise of this. 
Mr H was the named beneficiary on the payment instruction, the reason given for the 
payment was sending money to yourself and there was a successful confirmation of payee 
match. Whilst I appreciate this doesnt negate the possibility Mr H was being scammed, 
these factors might reasonably have caused the risk to be viewed as lower than it otherwise 
might have been.
Overall, I just dont think the payment, was sufficiently suspicious, in this case, for me to say 
Wise ought to have intervened, before allowing the payment through. I also understand that 
Wise hadnt received any prior reports, regarding the account to which Mr Hs payment was 
headed, to cause it concern.
Finally, Ive considered if there was anything Wise did or didnt do that impacted on whether 
anything could be recovered from Mr Hs account with B. And ultimately, Im satisfied that, 
upon receipt of notification of fraud, there wasnt anything Wise couldve done that wouldve 
resulted in the recovery of Mr Hs funds. The crypto exchange account was in Mr Hs name 
and had anything remained he could have spoken to B directly. In any case it would also 
appear from Mr Hs version of events that the funds were used to purchase cryptoassets 
which were sent on from B to the alleged scammers under the guise of them funding Mr Hs 
investment with T.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and/or information they want me to 
consider. Wise did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr H shared a decision by an 
Ombudsman colleague of mine which he says arises from similar circumstances. He wanted 
to understand why the outcome Ive reached differs. 
Now that both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mr H has fallen victim to a scam. Understandably he wants to do all 
that he can to try and recover his loss. But nothing he has said in response to my provisional 
decision has persuaded me to deviate from the outcome Ive reached, as set out above.  
Ive taken on board and carefully considered Mr Hs comments about what he understands 
our services approach to out of character payments to be, and the decision he has shared in 
which an Ombudsman colleague concluded a payment of £5,000 was out of character and 
ought to have prompted questioning before being processed. But firstly, I must point out that 
we decide each case upon its own individual merit. Secondly, I can, of course see why Mr H 
would question the outcome Ive reached, given that the other complaint is also against Wise 
and involving a payment for £5,000. But having read the other decision there are material 
differences, such as the length of time the accounts had been open. In that complaint the 
account was not newly opened (as is the case here)  it had several months of activity. 
Subtle differences in the individual circumstance of each case can influence what can fairly 
and reasonably be expected. Ive already shared detailed reasoning why, in this case, Ive 
reached the outcome I have. So whilst I understand why Mr H flagged the decision he did, it 
doesnt change my mind, and I have no reason to depart from the outcome I explained in my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman