DRN-3349876
The complaint
Mr H complains that ALD Automotive Limited (ALD) unfairly charged him for a missing 
service record. He would like this cost waived.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the following conclusions:-
Mr Hs Hire Purchase Agreement made it clear he needed to return the car at the end 
of the hire period with a complete service history. Mr H didnt do this as the relevant 
stamp for the service in 2019 wasnt in the service book. He told us he advised the 
garage that the car had been serviced in 2019 and showed a receipt as confirmation. 
I cant be  sure what happened at the garage but given Mr H has since proven the 
service did take place, I am inclined to accept his version of events.
Mr H has evidenced , that after receiving an invoice for end of contract charges  he 
emailed ALD details of the 2019 service in November 2020. It seems ALD didnt 
open or action this email until approximately a year later but given Mr H has provided 
an automatic read receipt email minutes after he sent his email  I am persuaded he 
did provide the necessary proof of the service.
I appreciate the email Mr H sent was corrupted so ALD couldnt access it, but it took 
nearly a year for ALD to get back to Mr H about this. I dont think Mr H can be held 
responsible for ALD not actioning his email in a timely manner. Had it done so I think 
it would have received proof of the service in sufficient time to waive the charge for 
this and not to have suffered any financial loss in the subsequent sale of the car.
I think although Mr H didnt have evidence of the service on the day he handed the 
car back which he should have  I believe he provided this promptly on receipt of the 
invoice . So, in these circumstances I think its reasonable for ALD to waive this 
charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement ALD Automotive Limited should waive the service charge applied 
to Mr Hs account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman