DRN-4355134
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC opened the wrong account for him.
 
What happened
Mr S visited a Barclays branch as he wanted to open a Euro bank account. He says he 
made it clear that he wanted a Euro account with a chequebook. But Mr S says Barclays 
opened a foreign currency Euro account instead. And this account didnt offer the facilities 
he needed. So, he complained to Barclays.
In response Barclays apologised that the wrong account had been opened and offered Mr S  
£50 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. Mr S didnt think the offer 
was fair, and so he asked our service to look into his complaint. In doing so, Mr S told us that 
since raising his complaint he had closed both the foreign currency account and his sterling 
account held with Barclays and opened account facilities elsewhere. He said that £300 
compensation was fairer for the inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He explained that Barclays 
had since told this service that the account it opened for Mr S was the only type of Euro 
account it offered, and that chequebook facilities were available with it. So, he didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong. He noted that Barclays offer of £50 compensation was 
still available, but he didnt recommend that Barclays needed to take any further action to 
resolve the complaint. 
Mr S didnt accept the Investigators outcome. He asked for evidence of what the investigator 
had relied on. He added that he thought Barclays was in breach of contract by opening the 
wrong account. Mr S was provided with a recording of a telephone conversation between 
Barclays and the investigator. But, while the investigator considered what Mr S had said, 
ultimately, he didnt change the outcome he had reached. As agreement wasnt reached,    
Mr S complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S wanted a Euro bank account, but he says Barclays opened a foreign currency Euro 
account in error. From what Ive seen, Barclays has changed its stance during the course of 
this complaint. Initially it said the wrong account had been opened. It has since said it 
opened the only type of Euro account that it offered. 
Ive seen that when Mr S account was opened, Barclays sent him a letter which included an 
information leaflet. Having looked at this, I can see why Mr S thinks the wrong account was 
opened. The letter says: Welcome to your new Foreign Currency Account. We're pleased to 
let you know that we've opened your Personal Currency Current Account in Euro for you. 
And under the heading what currency accounts are available, the leaflet says:
We offer two types of currency current accounts:
Euro Account specifically designed for euro
Foreign Currency Account available in selected major foreign currencies. 
That said, while the letter referred to a foreign currency account, it also said the account was 
a Euro account. So, Im satisfied the account opened was a Euro account. 
I note Mr S has said the account opened was the wrong type of Euro account as it only 
allowed payments in Euro within Great Britain, whereas he needed an account that allowed 
international transactions. But the leaflet mentioned above sets out the terms and conditions 
of both a Euro account and a foreign currency account and, having read the leaflet, Im 
persuaded the two accounts are fundamentally the same (apart from the currency they are 
held in). For example, both types of account offer: the ability to transfer funds abroad, 
chequebooks on request, a range of ways of depositing money and the same fees and 
charges applied. 
So, when taking both the welcome letter and the accompanying leaflet together, Im 
persuaded that Barclays opened the correct account for Mr S. And I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr S couldnt use the account for the purpose he said he needed it for. So, 
I wont be asking Barclays to pay Mr S any additional compensation. 
Barclays has made an offer of £50 to Mr S in recognition of any inconvenience caused. Mr S 
is seeking more compensation as he decided to close both his Euro account and sterling 
accounts. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons given above, I havent found that 
Barclays did anything significantly wrong that would warrant a further compensation 
payment.  
Barclays has confirmed its compensation offer is still open. I will leave it for Mr S to decide if 
he wishes to contact Barclays directly to accept it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman