DRN-2978695
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H complain that Aston Lark Limited failed to ensure that a complimentary 
desktop valuation of their property was undertaken by the underwriter of their home 
insurance policy and that this led to their home being underinsured during the 2019-2020 
policy year.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H contacted Aston Lark (an insurance broker) in January 2019 in order to 
arrange their home insurance for the coming year having decided to let the policy with their 
current insurer lapse. Following the phone call, Aston Lark emailed Mr H and Mr H to say 
that itd set them up on their system and had approached its panel of insurers based on a 
rebuild cost of £337,500 and a contents sum insured of £100,000. In the email it stated: if 
you would like to try and find a more accurate rebuild figure I would recommend using the 
attached link. The link was to the Association of British Insurers (the ABI) building costs 
information service which contains a rebuild calculator for consumers. The email went on to 
say that Aston Lark was intending to approach an insurer that offered a desktop valuation.
Aston Lark produced a presentation document for Mr H and Mr H which included the 
information itd asked them in relation to obtaining cover. Under the section pertaining to 
buildings a rebuild value of £337,500 was included. Cover was arranged with an insurer for 
£917.03 that included a complimentary desktop valuation of their property. 
The day after inception, Aston Lark emailed Mr H and Mr H to say that the insurer had asked 
for their telephone number so its surveyor team could contact them to discuss the valuation. 
In the same email, Aston Lark attached its covering letter, policy schedule and statement of 
fact.  The covering letter stated that time should be taken to read through the enclosed 
schedule and statement of fact. The schedule included a rebuild cost of £337,500. On the 
same day Aston Lark gave Mr Hs mobile phone number to the insurer and asked it to 
arrange the valuation and to confirm the turnaround time for doing so in order it could keep 
Mr H up to speed. Three days later the insurer let Aston Lark know that itd set the survey up 
but its surveyors had just asked if it could ask if Mr H and Mr H were able to submit some 
information (floor plans, images, brochure) about the property because it was so new it 
wasnt appearing on any of its systems.  
Aston Lark forgot to ask Mr H and Mr H for the information and failed to reply to the insurer. 
The valuation was never conducted. 
A year later Mr H and Mr H renewed their policy through Aston Lark (albeit with a different 
insurer). Around the same time they had been in contact with their mortgage lender and their 
rebuild cost was discussed; Mr H and Mr H were surprised that their mortgage lender 
considered it to be much higher than £337,500. Mr H and Mr H contacted Aston Lark to 
complain. It was discovered that the desktop valuation from the previous year had never 
been carried out. They said they wanted their buildings rebuild valuation amended 
immediately, a valuation paid for and their business transferred to another branch. 
Aston Lark said it was no longer possible to arrange a valuation with the previous insurer as 
that policy had ended. But it recommended a third-party surveyor and offered to pay a 
contribution towards the cost of Mr H and Mr H getting their own valuation done. Mr H and 
Mr H said they wanted an amount at least equivalent to the cost of the desktop valuation that 
hadnt been done the previous year. They also said they wanted to know the implications of 
being underinsured. In response, Aston Lark said it would arrange for a desktop survey to be 
carried out at no cost to Mr H and Mr H.  Mr H and Mr H said they had lost confidence in 
Aston Lark so they were wanted to seek insurance elsewhere. They asked for their policy to 
be cancelled and their premium refunded. Aston Lark actioned their request and cancelled 
their policy on 19 February 2020, refunding them £690.88. Mr H and Mr H also said there 
had been a substantial breach in the agreement between them for which they were seeking 
compensation equivalent to the premium theyd paid (of £917.03) during the previous year.
 
Aston Lark issued its final response to Mr H and Mr Hs complaint on 11 March 2020. It 
apologised for failing to pass on the insurers request for further information about their 
property. It said that in light of its error itd offered to cover the full cost of a separate 
valuation for them (this came to £102). Aston Lark said it didnt accept they had been led to 
believe that the rebuild cost had been based on a completed valuation. Aston Lark said it 
didnt understand what breach Mr H and Mr H were referring to but said it was their 
responsibility to make sure any sums insured were correct. 
Mr H and Mr H said that not all their queries had been addressed. They said Aston Lark had 
been contracted to do the valuation and had failed to do so despite being remunerated for its 
service. They said they wanted to know why the valuation wasnt carried out prior to the 
policys inception so that the correct rebuild cost was included. Aston Lark said in response 
that it fully accepted it shouldve done more to ensure the survey was carried out and it had 
since paid for one to be done. But, it said, it didnt understand why they believed that the 
survey had been carried out because it is the insurer that pays for it once the policy incepts.
Unhappy with the outcome of Aston Larks investigations, Mr H and Mr H complained to this 
service. They said they also had to question Aston Larks motives for its behaviour. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She thought 
that Aston Lark had handled Mr H and Mr Hs complaint fairly and reasonably so she said 
she couldnt fairly ask it to do any more. 
Mr H and Mr H disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for their complaint to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not the role of this service to tell a financial business how it should be running itself. Nor 
is it our role to punish a business or tell it to change its processes. We are here to fairly and 
reasonably investigate and resolve individual consumer complaints. Its my role to look at 
how Aston Lark has handled Mr H and Mr Hs complaint and decide if it has treated them 
fairly and reasonably in the process. Having considered all the available evidence, I have to 
say that I think it has. Ill explain why.  
Mr H and Mr H had justifiable cause for complaint. One of the reasons theyd chosen the 
particular quote from the insurer they ultimately selected in January 2019 is that it included a 
complimentary desktop valuation of their property. Aston Lark has admitted that it failed to 
ask Mr H and Mr H for the information the insurer needed prior to carrying out the valuation 
and that, consequently, the valuation never occurred. So there is no doubt that Aston Lark was at fault. But I have to decide whether I think its 
response to discovering that it was, was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I can 
see that Aston Lark apologised to Mr H and Mr H and paid for them to have a desktop 
valuation of their property carried out. I can see that it has fully accepted that it shouldve 
done more to ensure the valuation was carried out. But I think that Aston Larks response to 
Mr H and Mr Hs complaint is a fair and reasonable one in all the circumstances and is in line 
with what this service would expect of an insurer following any similar complaint. 
Ive seen no evidence that Aston Lark was contracted to carry out the valuation as 
suggested by Mr H and Mr H; an administration, or service, error certainly occurred, but Ive 
seen no evidence of a breach of contract.
I dont doubt that Mr H and Mr H couldve assumed that the desktop valuation had been 
undertaken. They said they thought the insurer could undertake it remotely. Thats not an 
unreasonable assumption to have made. Unfortunately the insurer did need to contact them 
though and, due to Aston Larks error, the valuation never happened. 
But I cant agree that they were led to believe that the rebuild cost cited on their policy had 
been based on a completed valuation. Thats because I can see from an email prior to Aston 
Lark finding the policy Mr H and Mr H were ultimately to purchase, that the rebuild cost of 
£337,500 was what it intended to base its search on. So, its reasonable to assume that was 
what was agreed between them. And that was before any possible free valuation had been 
offered. 
In addition, I can see that the ABIs consumer building cost tool was sent to Mr H and Mr H 
by Aston Lark soon after their initial discussion (and prior to the quote being offered and 
accepted); so they were able to use that to calculate their propertys rebuild cost if they 
wanted. It was up to them to make sure they were happy with the sums insured included on 
their policy. I am satisfied, from the evidence available, that Aston Lark made it clear what 
rebuild cost it was using to obtain quotes and that, if Mr H and Mr H wanted an up to date 
costing they could use the ABI calculator. As the rebuild cost originally discussed was used 
(and that cost wasnt based on any desktop valuation), Im unable to agree that the figure 
couldve been based on a completed desk top valuation.
So, Im satisfied Aston Lark made it clear Mr H and Mr H should ensure the information was 
accurate and gave them the opportunity the check the valuation figure was correct when 
they took out the policy. Im unable to reasonably agree that Aston Lark have made an error, 
or provided a poor level of service, by listing the rebuild cost as £337,500. 
Nor can I agree with Mr H and Mr H that the free valuation shouldve occurred before 
inception so an accurate rebuild cost could be included in the policy. The desktop valuation 
was provided by the insurer on a complimentary basis. For the insurer there will have been 
an associated cost which, understandably, it would be reluctant to incur until after it was 
certain the policy was to incept. So I dont think its reasonable to expect an insurer to 
provide a free valuation before a policy has been taken out. Any insurer offering such a 
service is likely to want to confirm cover before it pays for a survey to be done. So I dont 
think Aston Lark was at fault for not arranging the survey prior to inception or for not basing 
the rebuild cost on its outcome. 
I accept that it mustve been disappointing and worrying for Mr H and Mr H to be told by their 
mortgage lender that their rebuild cost was much higher than what they were insured for. 
And I appreciate that they wouldve been concerned at the potential implications this 
couldve had had they needed to have made a claim. But I cant hold Aston Lark responsible 
for something that never happened. Fortunately there was no need to make a claim during that policy year so Mr H and Mr H suffered no detriment as a consequence of being 
underinsured. I cant make Aston Lark compensate them for something that didnt happen. 
After Mr H and Mr H became aware that the valuation hadnt happened, I can see they 
contacted Aston Lark to cancel their policy. That was their choice to make but I can see 
Aston Lark didnt penalise them financially for doing so (for example by charging a 
cancellation fee), and I understand they were able switch to another insurance provider
without any difficulties. 
I note Mr H and Mr Hs reservations about Aston Clarks motives in providing them with their 
insurance policy. But I havent seen any evidence to lead me to conclude that their motive 
for arranging the cover was in order to sell them a service which wasnt covered by their 
policy.
So whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr H and Mr H, Im unable to 
uphold their complaint. I think that Aston Lark dealt with their complaint fairly and reasonably 
by admitting it was at fault, apologising, paying for them to have a desktop valuation of their 
property and not charging them a cancellation fee on cancelling their policy. It follows that I 
cant reasonably or fairly require Aston Lark to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman