DRN-1457032
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B say they were mis-sold monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI). 
Although the insurance was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester, Lloyds Bank PLC is now 
responsible for this complaint. So Ill refer to Lloyds as the seller to keep things simple.
 
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage. At the same time, Lloyds sold them a monthly 
premium PPI policy.
The PPI was in Mr Bs name. It would have covered Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage payments for 
up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
In 2003 Mr and Mrs B increased the cover under the PPI when they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage, so that their increased monthly repayment would still be covered 
if Mr B was off sick, or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Mr and Mrs B say they didn't know the PPI had been added. Ive seen a copy of their 
signed applications for both the original mortgage in 2001 and the further advance in 
2003. They each included a section on PPI, with equally prominent options to accept 
or decline the cover. On both occasions the box was ticked to indicate that Mr and 
Mrs B wished to apply for PPI. And on both occasions they completed a separate 
application form and direct debit instruction for the PPI. So Im satisfied that Lloyds 
made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional. And I think they decided to 
take it, knowing that they had a choice. But I can fully understand how they may no 
longer remember this, so many years later. 
Mr and Mrs B applied for both the 2001 mortgage and the 2003 further advance in 
face-to-face meetings. Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. This means it 
had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for them. But Im satisfied that it was 
suitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
 
Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B wouldn't have been entitled to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay from his employer at the time. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a 
significant, long-term financial commitment, secured on their home. And the 
consequences of not keeping up with their monthly mortgage payments could have 
been serious. If Mr B had made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid 
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months. I think this would 
have provided them with a valuable benefit at what would have been a difficult time.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs B have told us that they had some savings at the 
time. But theyd chosen to keep those savings, rather than taking out a smaller 
mortgage. And having the PPI would have meant that their savings would still have 
been available to them to use for other things if Mr B had been off sick, or if hed lost 
his job.
 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B have mentioned that they had life insurance. But 
thats a different type of insurance, and wouldn't have paid out in the same 
circumstances as the PPI. Theyve also mentioned that they had hospital insurance, 
and I can see they mentioned this on their PPI application when they took out the 
further advance. Theyve told us that the hospital insurance was in case of accidents, 
as that would be the only thing that would stop [Mr B] working. And they say Mr B 
always worked and never had sick days. But insurance is designed to protect people 
against unexpected events and situations. There could have been no guarantee that 
Mr B wouldn't become ill or lose his job. And hospital insurance wouldn't have given 
Mr B the same breadth of cover that the PPI provided. So I dont think the provisions 
Mr and Mrs B already had in place made the PPI unsuitable for them.
 
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the PPI better than it did. But 
Im satisfied that they chose to take out the cover, even if theyve understandably 
forgotten this now, so long after the event. The cover was competitively priced, and it 
looks as if Mr and Mrs B could afford it. So even if Lloyds had provided clearer 
information about the cost of the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs B would still have bought it. 
And since they were paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time 
with no further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer 
wanted the PPI.
 
Its possible Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (for 
example, unusual employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). But 
from what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs B would have been affected by any of these. So I dont think clearer 
information would have put them off taking the PPI.
 Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including what theyve said about not 
having been told about their right to cancel the PPI. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that 
they knew, when they applied for the PPI, that it was optional. And if theyd wanted to cancel 
the cover, I think theyd have contacted Lloyds to ask about it. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that they did so.
Mr and Mrs B have also mentioned that Mr B started taking medication for a medical 
condition in 2007. But that was some years after they took out the PPI, so I dont think it 
would have affected their decision about whether the cover was right for them.
So Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but having thought carefully about what theyve 
said, these points dont change my conclusion. Looking at all the information Ive been given, 
I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman