DRN-2562708
The complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declining a claim made against his pet 
insurance.
What happened
Mr S holds a pet insurance policy for his dog. In 2017, Mr Ss dog had an x-ray and was 
diagnosed with a condition in her left hind leg. Mr S made a claim against his policy for the x-
ray and anti-inflammatory medication that was required to treat that condition. That claim 
was accepted. The vet made no further recommendations for ongoing treatment or surgery.
In December 2019, Mr Ss dog had an accident and injured her hind leg, which caused her 
to develop a limp. The vet prescribed anti-inflammatory medication, which didnt improve her 
condition. So the vet carried out an x-ray which revealed Mr Ss dog required surgery to 
repair a torn ligament in her hind leg. Mr S made a claim on his pet insurance policy.
UKI declined the claim. It said that this surgery was linked to the condition Mr S made a 
claim for in 2017, which was no longer covered due to the policy having a 12-month limit on 
claims for each condition, which had passed. It said that the injury to the dogs leg was as a 
result of it being weakened by the condition identified in the 2017 claim so it was as a result 
of the same condition, which Mr S no longer had cover for.
Mr S doesnt agree that the claims are linked and states that his dog hasnt had any further 
issues with her leg since 2017. He says he has paid around £4,000 in vet bills and ongoing 
medication for his dog and would like UKI to reimburse his costs. He also says that he was 
aware there was a time limit and cost limit on the policy. But Mr S says that the condition he 
claimed for in 2017 wasnt noted as an exclusion in his policy documents or renewal letters 
and he thinks it should have been.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it was one that should be upheld. 
In short, she said that Mr Ss vet had confirmed that the two conditions were linked so she 
didnt think it was unfair for UKI to decline the claim.
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and Ill explain why.
I was sorry to read that Mr Ss dog sadly had to be put to sleep towards the end of 2020. As 
Mr S has identified, that doesnt affect my consideration of his complaint as my role is to 
decide whether UKI has acted fairly in declining the claim he made against his policy in 
2019.
UKI have provided us with the policy booklet for Mr Ss pet insurance policy. In it, it states 
that itll refund treatment costs for vet fees incurred during the policy period up to £4,000 or 
12 months (whichever is reached first) for each separate condition, from the date that the vet 
fees were first charged for treatment for that condition.
After UKI accepted Mr Ss claim in 2017, it states that it wrote to him to explain that cover for 
the condition identified in his dogs hind leg would end in November 2018 or when the 
monetary limit was reached if that was sooner.
UKI has also explained that while the injury in 2019 may have been caused by an accident, 
the underlying issue was that there was secondary arthritis as a result of the condition that 
had been identified in 2017  so it believes the two conditions are linked. To confirm this, 
UKI wrote to Mr Ss vet who replied to say that the conditions are linked. Due to the wording 
of the vets letter, I can see that UKI also phoned Mr Ss vet and directly asked her to confirm 
that the conditions were linked, which she did.
Based on the information provided by the vet, I dont think UKI acted unfairly in saying the 
two claims were linked. And as cover for that particular condition had lapsed in November 
2018, I dont think it acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr S has said that the condition should have been highlighted or listed as an exclusion in the 
policy and I have considered his comments. It isnt necessary for UKI to specify each 
condition excluded under the policy in its policy documents however I would expect it to 
make any exclusions clear. Having reviewed the policy booklet I can see that UKI has made 
it clear on page 2 of the policy booklet that each condition is only covered for 12 months 
from the first treatment date  which is prominent on the page. I can also see that the 
exclusions and details of what is covered are laid out clearly. So I think UKI made this clear 
and I dont think that UKI needed to take any further steps to highlight this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman