DRN-3329481
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) following a number of 
interactions with it.
What happened
Mr S complaint can be broadly separated into four main areas:
1. his experience at a branch when trying to withdraw cash;
2. what he was told when trying to order a new debit card;
3. delays in the bank responding to his complaint and not providing its final 
response (sometimes known as a deadlock letter);
4. inconsistencies in how the bank identifies him on the phone for security purposes.
Ill set out the summary details of each of these complaint points below. Each has been 
answered by one of our investigators. And Ive also discussed each point with Mr S, so 
Ive included relevant details where necessary.
1. The branch cash withdrawal
Mr S went to his local NatWest branch to withdraw a large sum of cash. He spoke to  a 
cashier, was identified, and he asked to make the withdrawal. The cashier asked Mr S 
why he needed the money.
Mr S didnt feel comfortable sharing this information and said he had a right to privacy. 
But the cashier would not give him the momeny without the information, and so Mr S 
asked to speak to the branch manager.
At first, the assistant manager arrived and Mr S restated that he wanted to speak with 
the manager. Once they arrived Mr S discussed his request again. After some 
discussion, the manager said a withdrawal could be made, but that a form would have to 
be completed. Mr S asked how long that would take and was told itd be around 15 to 20 
minutes. But Mr S no longer had time, given the wait to see the manager, and so left the 
branch without completing his withdrawal.
Mr S doesnt feel he should have to tell NatWest why he wants to withdraw his own money. 
Hes said he is known to the branch and had properly identified himself. And hes frustrated 
that the cashier didnt tell him he could complete a form to make the withdrawal.
NatWest said it followed its normal branch procedures. It believes its staff acted 
appropriately in the circumstances.
Our investigator felt NatWest had acted fairly and reasonably. She felt the bank had 
been fulfilling its obligation to protect Mr S from fraud and scams.
She understood Mr S point that he would have preferred to discuss the matter in private, 
but shed been told by the bank that meeting rooms werent in use because of covid-19 
restrictions. She didnt find that unreasonable.
She also noted that there was no guarantee the withdrawal would have been 
completed following the form being filled in. She said the outcome would still have 
depended on the answers given by Mr S.
Ive spoken to Mr S about why he disagrees with the investigators findings. Hes said that 
he believes the withdrawal would have gone ahead if the form had been completed, as 
the manager had said theyd allow the withdrawal. And he doesnt believe the banks 
meeting rooms were out of service as he saw a member of staff in one with another 
customer.
Mr S also feels the bank should have notified him of its policy on questioning transactions 
so that he could have been prepared for it.
2. The ordering of the debit card
Mr S wanted to order a new card but was told he couldnt. He spoke to a manager 
about this who missed that a card had already been ordered.
The bank has considered this complaint and has paid Mr S £50 in compensation for the 
poor service, along with £5.40 in call costs.
Our investigator found that outcome to be fair and reasonable.
Ive discussed this element of the complaint with Mr S and he was unaware of the 
compensation until our investigator told him. This ties in with the next complaint point about 
not receiving the banks final response to his complaint. Hes now agreed this matter is 
settled.
3. The time taken for the bank to deal with Mr S complaint and the issuing of its final 
response
Mr S has said he had to chase the bank for a response to his complaint and never 
received its final response letter. So he had to bring his complaint to our service after eight 
weeks had passed becuase he didnt receive an answer.
Our investigator could see there had been a number of contact points in the raising of Mr 
S complaint:
1 May 2021  the complaint was raised with the bank;
24 May 2021  the bank said it was still investigating;
27 May 2021 - Mr S called the bank to ask what was happening. He was told 
his complaint was waiting to be allocated to a case handler;
9 June 2021  Mr S discussed his complaint with a case handler;
12 June 2021  the bank issued its final response letter.
With those key dates in mind, our investigator said the bank had acted fairly and 
reasonably as it had responded to the complaint within the timeframes allowed.
Mr S has said he didnt receive the banks final response letter and thought it had 
only acted following contact from us.
4. Questions asked to identify Mr S
Mr S has said there are inconsistencies in how the bank verifies his identity when he calls 
them. Specifically, hes described how some members of staff will ask for his date of birth 
but move on to a different question if asked to. Whilst others will refuse to continue without 
a date of birth being provided.
Our investigator received evidence from the bank which showed the questions that will be 
asked to identify a customer and when a member of staff might proceed with a call. Having 
reviewed it she was satisfied the bank had been following its security procedures when Mr 
S had called. And she noted each member of staff had an individual responsibility in 
identifying callers.Ive discussed this point with Mr S, and hes said his frustration lies in the inconsistency of 
approach by different members of staff. Hed like this service to recommend the bank 
conduct further training with its staff. And hed like compensation for the inconvenience 
and time spent having to call the bank multiple times when he couldnt pass through 
security.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain my findings on each of Mr S complaint points in the same way as Ive 
addressed them in the background of this final decision. Overall, Im not upholding Mr S 
complaint.
1. The branch cash withdrawal
Ive discussed this point with Mr S, and weve talked through the reasons a bank will ask 
about the purpose of large cash withdrawals. Banks have an obligation to protect 
customers from financial harm that can result from fraud and scams. Im satisfied this is 
what the bank was doing when it asked Mr S about the purpose of his withdrawal. I dont 
consider its actions in doing so to be unreasonable.
Fraud and scams are a growing problem in the financial sector and it is right that banks 
play their part in stopping them. The withdrawing of large sums of cash can often be 
indicator that someone is falling victim to a scam. There are many occasions when that 
isnt the case and the purpose of the withdrawal is entirely legitimate. But without asking 
relevant questions the bank would never know that is the case. The first of any such 
questions is often what the purpose of a withdrawal is. Id expect there to then be further 
questions asked in order to satisfy the bank its customer wasnt falling victim to a scam.
I understand that the branch manager offered to allow Mr S withdrawal if he completed a 
form. Mr S didnt have time to do this and so it didnt go ahead. But Im satisfied that the 
managers offer did not guarantee that Mr S would have received the money. The form 
still asked questions relevant to fraud and scams. Its possible the withdrawal would have 
gone ahead, if the form had been completed. But the manager could also still have 
declined the withdrawal depending on Mr S answers. The answers to the questions on 
the form are what would have confirmed if the withdrawal could go ahead or not.
If NatWest had suspected Mr S was at risk of financial harm, it is more likely than not it 
would not have allowed the withdrawal. And it would have been fair and reasonable for it 
to do so, even considering Mr S right to privacy and his right to access the money in his 
account.
If the withdrawal had been allowed by the branch manager, perhaps without clear 
answers to some questions, that would have been them exercising their own discretion in 
their position as manager. It doesnt mean the cashier acted inappropriately.
Mr S has explained to me that he is well-known to the branch and doesnt present as a 
vulnerable person. I can completely accept that is the case. But it is not only persons 
unknown to branch staff, or those that are vulnerable that fall victim to scams. This service 
is sadly all too aware that anyone can fall victim if caught at the wrong time and in the 
wrong circumstances.
I can understand why Mr S would have felt more comfortable if hed been able to answer 
the banks questions in a meeting room or office. He disagrees with the banks explanation 
that the meeting rooms were unavailable due to covid-19 restrictions.It doesnt seem, from Mr S own version of events or the banks records, that Mr S actually 
asked to discuss the withdrawal in a meeting room. Ive read the transcript of the phone 
call in which he raises the complaint with the bank. Ive also listened to the call with our 
service in which Mr S raised his complaint with us. He doesnt say that a room was 
requested and then refused, only that one wasnt offered and that it would have been 
more appropriate. So it might be that the bank would have made an exception if asked at 
the time; theres really no way for me to know.
It does seem more likely than not Mr S wasnt proactively offered to discuss the 
transaction in a meeting room. But then that will often not be necessary when a 
withdrawal is being questioned. I dont find the bank acted incorrectly in not making such 
an offer up front.
Mr S has said he doesnt believe the banks explanation that the rooms were not in service. 
I dont have any reason to disbelieve what the bank has said here. It certainly seems more 
likely than not the bank will have been trying to limit close contact as much as possible 
given there were widespread lockdown measures in place across the country at the time. 
And that doesnt mean that what Mr S has said about a room being in use by other people 
when he was in branch isnt true. The branch staff may have made an exception for 
someone at the time.
Mr S did ask for evidence of what the bank had said in defence of this complaint point. I can 
confirm hes already had a copy of all we can send him, having double checked following 
our phone conversation. Ive already explained to Mr S that we wont share information 
about the banks internal policies and procedures as that information is sensitive. I dont find 
its necessary for any more information or evidence on this point to be gathered to reach a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
The point Ive made about policies and procedures not being shared also informs the 
answer as to why the bank doesnt notify its customers about what questions it might ask 
and when, in respect of transactions being made on an account. To do so would potentially 
limit their effectiveness and increase the risk of financial harm to the bank and its 
customers.
I dont believe the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in respect of the cash withdrawal.
2. The ordering of the debit card
Mr S has agreed this part of his complaint is settled and so Ill make no further comment on 
it other than to say it seems there was an element of human error that Mr S has now been 
fairly compensated for.
3. The banks response to Mr S complaint and the issuing of its final response
Mr S raised his complaint with NatWest on 1 May 2021 and it issued its final response 
letter on 12 June 2021. That final response letter included the bank setting out its 
compensation award for the debit card issues, as well as its findings on the other 
complaint points.
Mr S has said he didnt receive that final response and I can see he contacted our service 
(on 30 June 2021) without knowing the outcome of his complaint with the bank. But I am 
satisfied the bank did send the correspondence and that it was correctly addressed. Im not 
saying that means the letter was delivered. Mr S contact with us suggests it wasnt. But the 
bank did what it could to get its answer to Mr S and its impossible to say why it wasnt 
received. Im satisfied the bank did all it needed to in getting its answer to Mr S.
The dates show that NatWest responded to Mr S complaint within the timeframes 
allowed. And so theres no error on the banks part here.
4. Questions asked to identify Mr SMr S believes weve not been sent all of the transcripts of calls which highlight this issue. 
Ive explained we have the transcripts of two calls, but he believes there should be more. I 
can see our investigator did ask the bank to confirm if we had all available transcripts and it 
said we did. But even if we dont, I dont find theres a need for more evidence to answer 
this complaint point. Thats because, even if I take all Mr S has said to be true, and bank 
staff have appeared to be inconsistent, I still wouldnt be making an award against the bank.
Mr S has said he would like this service to recommend the bank carry out more training 
for staff that handle calls. But this isnt something we can do.
Its only right that staff at NatWest seek to properly identify callers when speaking to them. 
I know Mr S doesnt disagree. Instead, he sometimes doesnt feel comfortable in giving his 
date of birth. But its a standard and reasonable question for a bank to ask. Its commonly 
one of the key pieces of information any bank uses to identify callers.
As with the branch withdrawal issue, it may be that staff will have discretion when going 
through security questions. Each member of staff has individual responsibility to ensure the 
caller is who they say they are. And so, if a customer refuses to provide an answer to a 
reasonable question I dont find its unfair that they decline to proceed. Other members of 
staff might equally use their discretion in deciding to ask alternative questions. Those 
differences dont make one approach or the other wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman