DRN-3016402
The complaint
Miss H complains about the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very has 
administered her catalogue shopping account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H had a catalogue shopping account with very. She complains about three main things, 
which Ill summarise below:
- very didnt treat her fairly during a time of financial difficulties;
- very is asking her to repay significantly more than she owes; and
- very has charged her too much for a mattress. 
I will consider each in turn. 
very didnt treat Miss H fairly during a time of financial difficulties
Miss H had a catalogue shopping account with very. To maintain the account in line with the 
account terms and conditions she needs to make at least minimum payments by a certain 
date each month. I have reviewed her account statements. These show her balance in 
September 2019 was about £420, with about £60 being for a vacuum and about £140 for a 
mattress. 
From September 2019 onwards Miss H missed several minimum payments, and didnt make 
any payments in November or December 2019, January or March 2020. This meant she 
wasnt reducing the balance in the way intended, and as interest and charges were being 
applied, her balance increased overall. By March 2020 she owed £425, was about £60 in 
arrears and needed to make a minimum payment of about £95 by the next due date to get 
the account back on track. 
On 25 March 2020 Miss H asked very if she could have a payment plan for £20 a month. It 
took some time for very to respond but given the timing of Miss Hs request I dont think this 
was unusual, or unreasonable, given the backdrop of the pandemic. Ultimately, in May 2020, 
very declined Miss Hs request. It did this because Miss H had answered yes to the 
question At the end of the month do you struggle to find money for food?. Very has said it 
cannot in good conscience set a payment plan on an account in these circumstances, which 
is why it declined Miss Hs request and referred her to debt charities for support.
I acknowledge Miss H thinks very was wrong to decline her request. But Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for very to do so. I say this because her account history suggests she was 
struggling financially before the pandemic began. If she was struggling financially while 
making no payments to her very account, it seems unlikely £20 a month payments going 
forward would have helped Miss Hs overall financial position. And payment plans are 
intended as a short-term measure  Miss Hs circumstances didnt appear to be temporary. 
Miss H later asked for a Covid-related payment deferral. This formed part of the guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide short term support for people 
directly impacted by the pandemic. Miss H didnt meet the criteria for a payment deferral as 
her financial difficulties  demonstrated by the arrears on the account  were present before 
the pandemic began. In any case, I dont find a payment deferral would have been in 
Miss Hs interests. I say this because interest and arrears would have continued to accrue, 
so I think its likely a payment deferral would have left Miss H with a larger debt, and larger 
arrears, to deal with further down the line.
In the event, very waived/refunded interest and charges following Miss Hs
May 2020 statement. This was better for her than a payment plan or a Covid-related 
payment deferral as it meant she didnt need to make any payments while she was 
struggling, and her balance didnt increase. very went on to default the account, thereby 
suspending interest and charges indefinitely. 
Miss H may not want a default on her credit file, but given the payments shed already 
missed, that she wasnt able to get the account back on track and that she didnt want her 
balance to increase, I consider what very did reasonable, and likely in her best interests. 
very later referred the debt to a collections agency. It was entitled to do this.
 
very is asking Miss H to repay significantly more than she owes
Miss H says she repaid all the items she bought except the vacuum and mattress, so shes 
being asked to repay more than she owes. As I set out above, in September 2019 she owed 
about £420 and only about £200 of that was for the vacuum and mattress. very provided a 
breakdown of what the rest of the balance was made up of in its final response letter. I find 
the breakdown plausible. And Miss H hasnt provided any evidence to support her assertion. 
Based on the information presented to me, Im not persuaded Miss H has been asked to 
repay significantly more than she owes. 
Miss H asked for a breakdown of her account balance several times and it look a long time 
for very to provide it. It should have done better here. But it has now provided the breakdown 
and has, rightly, apologised for the poor service. In my view this puts matters right.  
very has charged Miss H too much for a mattress. 
Miss H says she purchased a mattress and has been charged £139.99 despite it being on 
offer for £99.99. very reviewed this and disagree this was the case. Its provided a link to the 
advert for the mattress on its website and suggested Miss H ordered a larger size and didnt 
notice the larger cost. It might be right. I can see the cost differs depending on the size 
ordered. But I can also see the mattress is on offer today, with a double costing £89.
Neither very nor Miss H has provided me with compelling evidence to show how much the 
mattress should have cost. But I think its most likely it should have cost £139.99. I say this 
because the order was placed on a website, therefore there was no manual intervention on 
the part of very. It couldnt therefore, have made a human error and I note the item is 
showing on Miss Hs statements as costing £139.99. Further, if Miss H thought shed been overcharged I would have expected her to raise it nearer the time, and not several months 
later. It may simply be shes misremembered.  
Overall
I accept Miss H will be disappointed by this final decision. But Im not persuaded very has 
done anything substantially wrong. It follows I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman