DRN-3358949
The complaint
Mr B complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited turned down his claim on his 
car insurance policy.
What happened
When out driving one day, Mr B says he saw the temperature gauge in his car spiking to 
high levels. When he stopped and removed the radiator cap, he says steam was coming 
from the radiator. He says he added water, which didnt hold, and carefully drove the car 
home.
Mr B then took his car to a garage for repairs. The garage repaired the cylinder head, refitted 
the gasket and removed the radiator, which was re-cored by another specialist garage. The 
repair costs were just under £233 for the radiator re-coring and just over £643 for everything 
else. Mr B claimed for these costs on his car insurance policy saying a piece of debris 
pierced the radiator and caused the head gasket to blow.
Markerstudy initially accepted Mr Bs claim, but then later turned it down, saying the damage 
he was claiming for resulted from mechanical breakdown, for which his policy didnt cover 
him.
When Mr B complained to Markerstudy about this, it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr B 
brought his complaint to us. He wants Markerstudy to reimburse his repair costs and pay him 
£400 in compensation for his time and effort in trying to sort things out.
The investigator who looked at Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold it. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence to support Mr Bs view that the damage was solely caused by debris 
impacting the radiator. Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first point Id like to make is that its for Mr B to show his claim is covered by his car 
insurance policy. The second is that, when an insurer turns down a claim, our role is to 
decide if its acted fairly in doing so  by looking at what happened, at the policy terms and 
conditions and at industry guidelines.
Mr B says his claim is covered by his car insurance because some debris from the road 
pierced the car radiator and caused the head gasket to blow. He says this based mostly on a 
report he got from the garage that carried out most of the repairs (other than the radiator re-
coring) which says:
Carried out inspection of the  vehicle and found the head gasket to be blown and [in] 
need to replacement, also found the radiator cap to be incorrect and faulty ..also found a 
leak on the front side of the radiator which possibly could have been caused by Debris.
Mr B says Markerstudy initially accepted his claim and only turned it down when it got the 
second invoice from the garage for just over £643. He says Markerstudy did this because it 
didnt want to pay out the higher claim value and was putting profit before customers.
In response Markerstudys engineer says:
The garage report says only that the radiator may have been damaged by debris. 
There are no images of the damage.
In the circumstances Mr B describes, the engine would only have been damaged if hed 
carried on driving when the temperature went up and if hed stopped the vehicle when the 
damage to [the] radiator occurred, there would not have been sufficient time for the 
engine to boil up and cause damage to the head gasket. 
Either Mr B carried on driving knowing his car was losing water quickly and overheating, 
and therefore not mitigating his loss, and most likely causing the head gasket damage, or 
the head gasket had already blown through fair wear and tear which we would not cover as 
mechanical failure, the cooling system may also have been compromised by the incorrect 
fitting radiator cap.
More recently, Markerstudy has said Mr B prejudiced his claim by having work carried out 
without contacting it first, meaning it couldnt carry out an inspection before the repairs were 
done. And its also reiterated that there are no images to prove or show the damage. And 
Markerstudy has gone on to say: The cost of repairing the radiator came in at around £230 
and [Mr B] has an excess of £100, so if there was valid proof the radiator was damaged by 
an object then the claim for this could be considered (as per the terms). Without images or 
confirmation from the garage I dont believe [Mr B] has any grounds for a claim.
My role isnt to decide what caused the damage to Mr Bs car. As Ive said, its to decide if 
Markerstudy acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Bs claim. From what Ive seen, I 
think Markerstudy has acted fairly and reasonably. Markerstudy wasnt able to inspect the 
damage before the repairs were done, there are no photos of the damage and the garage 
report isnt conclusive  it effectively says only that debris may have caused the damage to 
the radiator. I also dont think it was unreasonable of Markerstudy to rely on its engineers 
advice  based on the limited information he had  that the damage was most likely caused 
by mechanical failure. And, as Mr B knows, his policy excluded cover for mechanical failure.
I know Mr B is perplexed his claim was originally accepted and then turned down. 
Markerstudy says this is because, when Mr B first made his claim, he said his garage had 
told him a stone had hit the radiator. Also, at this stage, I think it had only received the 
invoice for the radiator re-core. It was only when Markerstudy got the other invoice from     
Mr B, as well as the garages report, that its engineer took the view these documents didnt 
correlate to the customers version of the event/diagnosis. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation for why Markerstudy subsequently changed its view on Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman