DRN-3250133
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Mortgage Lender Limited (TML) made an entry about him on the 
Cifas fraud protection database in connection with a mortgage application and that it refused 
to remove this.
What happened
Mr C submitted a mortgage application through a broker to TML in June 2018. TML declined 
the application on the basis that it had suspicions of fraudulent behaviour and recorded an 
entry about Mr C with Cifas. Mr C made a further mortgage application in August 2018 
through a different broker but was advised that it could not proceed.
Mr C contacted TML in December 2020 confirming that the documents he had provided to 
support his application were false and asking it to remove the Cifas marker. He said that he 
had bought a P60 and payslips from a website and submitted them as part of his application. 
He stated that he officially worked at the workplace mentioned in the documentation until 
2017. However, he had been working abroad since September 2017 and thought he would 
therefore not be eligible for a remortgage. He said that had he known that UK citizens 
working abroad were able to get a mortgage, he would not have made such a mistake and 
would have confirmed his proof of income from his work abroad. 
TML refused to overturn its decision to apply the Cifas marker. 
Mr C says that as a result of the Cifas marker, he has had job applications declined which 
means he is unemployed and has to claim social security benefits. He admits his mistake but 
says that he has not done this before or since so would like the marker to be removed.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and was of the view that TML hadnt acted 
unreasonably in making the report to the fraud prevention agency or in deciding not to 
remove it. This was because Mr C had submitted a false P60 and payslips which he had 
purchased on a third-party website in support of his mortgage application. She therefore 
didnt think TML had done anything wrong and couldnt fairly ask it to remove the marker.
Mr C disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He says that when 
making a decision, this service should look at whether a person has done this kind of thing 
before, the time since the mistake was made (which was nearly four years ago, and the 
record remains for six years) and whether the action has been repeated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services sector, allowing 
the sharing of information with financial businesses to protect themselves and their 
customers from fraud. However, the consequences for an individual of being added to a 
database can be severe, so its important that a marker is only entered where it can be 
justified. 
A business needs to have reasonable suspicion of fraud in order to apply a Cifas marker 
with sufficient evidence to back this up. There are various fraud offences, but a common 
feature is that a financial business has found dishonesty in the information supplied by the 
customer.
Ive taken this into account when looking at Mr Cs case. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
TML hasnt acted unfairly when it placed the marker on the Cifas database.
TMLs concerns were based on the fact that it suspected false employment and income were 
declared as part of a mortgage application made to it and false documents were supplied to 
support this. Mr C later contacted TML confirming that he had purchased the P60 and 
payslips and used these to support his mortgage application. Mr C therefore accepts that the 
documents he provided in support of his application were false.
Whilst I have noted what Mr C has said about the circumstances of him purchasing the 
payslips online and that he made a mistake which was an isolated incident some time ago, 
this doesnt affect my view of whether TML applied the marker fairly. The submission of false 
documents to support an application is exactly the type of situation which TML should 
reasonably report to Cifas.
In light of the above, I dont think it was unfair that TML put the marker on the Cifas database 
and I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require The 
Mortgage Lender Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman