DRN-3150285
The complaint
Ms Y says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Ms Y took out four instalment loans from 118 118 Money. A summary of her borrowing
follows.
Ms Y says 118 118 Money didnt complete proper affordability checks or an assessment of
any signs over indebtedness. She says its loans have worsened her financial situation,
which was already poor. When she complained to the lender it agreed it could have done
more before giving loan 4, and so upheld her complaint about that loan. Unhappy with its
response about loans 1-3 Ms Y came to this service.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ys complaint about loans 2 and 3. He said whilst the checks
were not proportionate for loan 1, from the available evidence he couldnt conclude that
better checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable. But for loans 2 and 3 he felt
there was evidence Ms Y had not given accurate information about her existing credit
commitments and so 118 118 Money should not have approved the loans.
Ms Y agreed with this assessment, but 118 118 Money asked for an ombudsmans review. It
said it didnt believe Ms Y had deliberately misled it when she applied so this was not a fair
reason to uphold her complaint about loans 2 and 3.
I reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator but based on different findings. So 
I issued a provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I 
asked both parties to reply with any comments by 5 November 2021.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Ms Y before it approved the
loans. It asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It says it completed income
verification with a third party to check her income  it hasnt shown how the results of this
impacted its affordability assessment. Each time, it checked Ms Ys credit file to understand
her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these checks combined
118 118 Money concluded Ms Y had sufficient disposable income to afford the loans. As the
lender has already agreed it should have done more before giving loan 4 I wont comment
further on that and I will focus my assessment on loans 1 to 3.
Loan 1
I think the checks 118 118 Money carried out were proportionate given the size and term of
the loan and the age of the lending relationship. Our investigator felt that given the results of
the credit check the lender should have carried out further checks. But I am not minded to
agree. Whilst there was some adverse data on Ms Ys credit check, much of it was historic
(over five years old) and the debts had later been settled. There was only one account that
had defaulted more recently and that was 18 months ago and had been settled seven
months previously. So I think it was reasonable for the lender to conclude Ms Ys finances
had stabilised and were no longer under pressure. Her active credit accounts were up-to-
date.
Ms Ys overall indebtedness stood at £10,777 - £9,391 was on a hire purchase agreement
with a £161 monthly repayment and the remainder was credit card debt. There was no
evidence the monthly cost of her existing credit commitments exceed the £305 she had
declared on her application. Ms Y had said that her income was £1,879 and her total
expenses were £1,334. This left her with disposable income of £545 from which to fund this
additional credit commitment of £73.60. So in the round I dont think 118 118 Money was
wrong to give Ms Y loan 1.
Loan 2
Here I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered  so I dont plan to comment further on whether its checks were proportionate, or
not. I say this because 118 118 Money could see from the credit check it completed that
Ms Ys unsecured indebtedness had increased substantially in the last year. It had doubled
to £21,136 and she had seven more active credit accounts. The report showed she was now
spending around £590 a month to service her existing debt. And she had told the lender that
her income had fallen to £1,498 a month. From this information I think 118 118 Money ought
to have realised that Ms Y was already spending a significant proportion of her income on
her existing credit commitments and increasing this further would mean there was a high risk
the loan would be unsustainable for her. And this was something it needed to consider  not
just the pounds and pence affordability - to meet its obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G). This
stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 2 to Ms Y.
Loan 3
For the same reason I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 3 to Ms Y. Her declared
income was marginally higher at £1,521 but her unsecured indebtedness had not noticeably
reduced at £20,426 and she had a further two lines of credit active. The credit check showed
her total monthly credit commitments now totalled £1,206. Whilst her credit card debt had
reduced by £684 she had made no inroads into her loan debt which stood at £18,448 and
her mortgage commitment had increased. 118 118 Money pointed out that her credit card
utilisation had fallen significantly to 13% - but this was primarily driven by a large increase inher combined credit card limits to £11,700, up from £4,000 at the time of loan 2. If anything I
think this ought to have further concerned the lender as it meant Ms Y had an already
approved capacity to significantly extend her indebtedness. So as with loan 2 I think 118
118 Money ought to have realised that Ms Y was already spending a significant proportion of
her income on her existing credit commitments and increasing this further would mean there
was a high risk the loan would be unsustainable for her.
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loan 3 to Ms Y.
In summary, I am planning to uphold Ms Ys complaint in part with regards to loans 2 and 3.
I havent found that the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms Y in some other
way.
I then set out what 118 118 Money would need to do to put things right If I upheld the 
complaint in part.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. 
118 118 Money and Ms Y both responded to the provisional decision accepting the findings 
and outcome.
As neither party sent in new comments or evidence it follows I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out. 
It follows I think 118 118 Money was wrong to give loans 2 and 3 to Ms Y.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Ms Y to repay the capital that she borrowed as part of
loans 2 and 3, because she had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and
charges on these two loans that shouldnt have been provided to her.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from loans 2 and 3 and treat all the payments
Ms Y made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Ys loan accounts results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ys credit file in relation to loans 2
and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Ms Y a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
 My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ys complaint in part. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman