The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited has turned down an accidental damage 
claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ts son was cutting back foliage around Mr Ts garage. He leaned too far over and fell 
onto the garage roof. The roof couldnt bear his weight and collapsed. So Mr T made an 
accidental damage claim on his buildings insurance policy.
Tesco turned down Mr Ts claim. It looked at photos Mr T had sent in of the damage and 
thought the garage roof hadnt been kept in a good state of repair. It felt a well-maintained 
garage wouldnt have collapsed under Mr Ts sons weight. So it said the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Mr T wasnt happy with Tescos decision and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Shed looked at evidence Mr T 
had sent in which showed the materials his roof had been made from couldnt bear weight. 
She didnt think Tesco had provided enough evidence to show the roof wouldnt have 
collapsed if Mr Ts son hadnt fallen on it. She didnt think it was fair for Tesco to rely on 
policy exclusion clauses to turn down Mr Ts claim.
Tesco disagreed. It said Mr T hadnt complied with a policy condition which requires 
policyholders to keep their home in a good state of repair. It also said the policy specifically 
excludes claims which happen because of restoring, altering or repairing; or damage which 
wouldnt have happened if there hadnt been a failure to deal with damage a policyholder 
was already aware of. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Tesco has 
treated Mr T fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr T has accidental damage cover on his buildings insurance. Accidental damage is defined 
in the policy as sudden, unexpected physical damage which has not been caused 
deliberately.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ts son fell through the garage roof. I think this falls squarely within 
DRN-1606365the scope of accidental damage cover. So Im satisfied Mr Ts shown he suffered an insured 
loss under the policy terms. This means Tesco either needs to deal with the claim or show 
why its not covered.
Tesco has relied on several policy terms and exclusions to turn down Mr Ts claim, including 
lack of maintenance and failure to deal with roof damage he was already aware of. I accept 
the photos Ive seen do show substantial foliage growth over the surface of the roof and 
there is a slight bowing in the doorway.
But Tesco hasnt provided any expert evidence to show me that the main cause of the 
damage was the lack of maintenance to the roof, or that the roof wouldve withstood Mr Ts 
sons weight had it been better maintained. It seems Tescos decision was based on looking 
at photos of the garage, rather than a detailed surveyors assessment of the cause of 
damage.
On the other hand, Mr T has provided us with some information from a government body 
explaining how to deal with roofs made from asbestos. This includes a Caution note which 
says: AC roofs are always fragile and cannot bear weight . In my view, this indicates that the 
likely reason for the collapse of the roof was Mr Ts son suddenly falling on it. Thats 
because it seems these types of roofs simply arent designed to take weight. Theres no 
suggestion though that these types of roofs only become fragile if theyre overgrown, or not 
fully maintained.
Tesco has partly relied on a policy term excluding cover where loss or damage has come 
about because of altering, repairing or restoring something. I dont think this term applies 
here. I dont think maintaining foliage which has grown onto a roof constitutes altering, 
repairing or restoring a garage. It seems to me its simply maintaining a property, by cutting 
back foliage that isnt part of the structure.
Overall, I dont think Tesco has shown that its fair or reasonable for it to rely on policy 
exclusions for lack of maintenance; wear and tear; failure to deal with damage or that Mr T 
hasnt kept his property in a good condition. Im persuaded by the information Mr T has 
provided about the nature of his type of roof and the fact it isnt designed to be weight-
bearing. I dont think Tesco has shown, on balance, that the roof wouldve withstood Mr Ts 
sons weight, but for the foliage growth. So it follows I think Tesco should reconsider Mr Ts 
claim under the accidental damage section of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to reassess Mr Ts claim, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman