DRN-3454435
The complaint
Mr A and Miss W have complained about the refusal of a business interruption claim under 
their business policy with The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as NFU Mutual (NFUM).
Mr A has conducted most of the correspondence in this complaint, so I will mainly refer to 
him. 
What happened
Mr A and Miss W own holiday let properties. They made a claim under the policy after 
bookings were cancelled following the national response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
NFUM says the main business interruption cover requires damage to the property but that 
was not the case here. NFUM also considered the claim under the Public emergency 
extension to the busines interruption cover. However, it said this excluded any claims arising 
from contagious disease. As the public emergency was Covid-19, NFUM therefore rejected 
the claim for business interruption losses. 
NFUM also reviewed the claim following the Supreme Courts judgement in the Financial 
Conduction Authoritys business interruption test case. It did not consider that this impacted 
Mr As claim. 
Mr A is very unhappy about this. He obtained advice form a solicitor who has written in 
support of the claim and complaint. The solicitor said: 
the exclusion of contagious disease would only apply if the disease was the direct 
cause of the losses. But Mr A did not have to close due to a Covid-19 outbreak on or 
around his premises; instead the losses were the result of the actions and advice of 
the Government in response to the pandemic, which led to clients cancelling their 
bookings. 
The clause is clearly intended to relate to losses directly resulting from disease. If the 
clause was intended to have a wider meaning, the words directly or indirectly would 
have been added. 
Covid-19 would not have been in the underwriters mind when the policy was drafted 
and so it is clear it cannot have been intended to exclude cover for this entirely 
unforeseen situation.
If the term is interpreted as alleged by NFUM then it is an unfair term as it is so wide 
that it would render the public emergency clause ineffective. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought NFUM was entitled to reject the claim for the reasons it had. 
Mr A does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
In the meantime, Mr A has also recently said that he disagrees that Covid-19 is a disease 
and that he is aware other insurers have been meeting claims. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr A and Miss Ws business. But I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether NFUM has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr A and Miss Ws claim.
The business interruption section of cover says it will pay for loss of income arising from 
damage to property at the premises. There is no dispute that there is no damage to property. 
This section also includes some extensions to that cover. The extension to the cover which 
both parties thought might be relevant to this claim is as follows: 
Public emergency
We will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a competent 
Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property occurring in 
the vicinity of the premises, which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the 
PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive hours.
However, it also says:
We will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
Mr A has also recently said that he disagrees that Covid-19 is a disease. Covid-19 is on the 
list of diseases notifiable to local authority proper officers under the Health Protection 
(Notification) Regulations 2010. I am satisfied it is therefore an infectious or contagious 
disease for the purposes of the above term.
The cover set out above requires there to be a public emergency in the vicinity of the insured 
premises, which in turn triggers a public authority response that hinders the use of the 
premises. 
Any emergency that may have been found to have occurred in the vicinity of the insured 
premises (and I make no finding on that here) would be the Covid-19 pandemic; and the 
resultant restrictions imposed by the Government, and which affected Mr As business, were 
in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I am therefore of the opinion that the exclusion set 
out above would apply to the claim under this section of cover, as the losses Mr A suffered 
were as a result of Covid-19, an infectious and contagious disease. 
Mr A has also said that this amounts to an unfair term, if interpreted in its widest sense. I do 
not agree. In my opinion the exclusion  is clear and unambiguous and I do not consider it to 
be inherently unfair. Insurers are entitled to decide what cover they want to provide in 
exchange for the premium charged. I do not think that the exclusion is so wide as to mean it 
renders this clause ineffective and does not provide any cover at all. There are a number of 
public emergencies that I consider might fall within this cover, even if it excludes this claim. Mr A has also said he has become aware of other insurers who have met business 
interruption claims and thinks the spirit of the offering under [business interruption cover]  
should be universal. Whether a claim will be met or not depends on the policy terms and 
unfortunately there is no part of Mr As policy that I think would cover his claim.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman