DRN-2159936
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible when 
increasing his credit card limit.
What happened
Mr Z has a credit card account with Halifax. In 2016, Halifax wrote to Mr Z saying it would 
increase his credit limit from £500 to £1,500 and gave Mr Z the option to opt out of the 
increase. In March 2017, Halifax increased Mr Zs credit limit to £2,000.
Mr Z complained to Halifax as he felt the increases were irresponsible. He explained hed 
entered into a Debt management Plan (DMP) in 2019 and the credit limit increases had 
contributed to his financial difficulty. Halifax didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that at 
the time of the increases there was no indication that Mr Z was in financial difficulty and that 
hed made more than the minimum repayments in the time leading up to the increases.
I sent my provisional decision, which is attached below and forms part of this decision, on 2 
September 2020. I explained that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint because I felt the 
checks Halifax completed were reasonable and proportionate. So, I didnt think it wouldve 
been aware of the situation Mr Z was in at the time. This was because it had checked Mr Zs 
account management and credit score at the time of the credit increases. And the credit 
score increased over this time and hed made more than his minimum repayments. As such, 
I didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Halifax agreed with my provisional decision. Mr Z disagreed. He sent in his bank statements 
and made the following points:
- Although Mr Z made repayments to his credit card account, he would immediately 
spend on his account again.
- The income he received into his bank account was before income tax and national 
insurance had been deducted. He also explained that Halifax didnt ask him for 
payslips to prove his income.
- Mr Zs statements show he had a number of payday loans.
- Halifax was wrong when determining his disposable income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome set out in my provisional decision, which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision. Im not upholding this complaint. But Id like 
to address Mr Zs points to explain why.
Mr Zs points relate to the income he was receiving and his general activity in his current 
account at the time. And, I can understand why this gives a good overall picture of other, 
short term, lending he was getting around the time of the increases. But my role here is to 
determine whether I think Halifax shouldve done further checks to look at this, based on the 
checks that it had done. And I dont think that it should have.
Halifax gave credit limit increases to Mr Z making his limit £1,500 and then £2,000. When it 
decided to offer Mr Z the increases Halifax looked at how Mr Z had managed his credit card 
account. It saw that hed regularly made more than the minimum repayments. It also 
checked his credit score and saw his scores were acceptable  and had got better between 
the first increase and second increase. Halifax used the income Mr Z declared on his original 
application to determine his income  and he hadnt made it aware that there had been a 
decrease. It also took into account the lending Mr Z said he had at the time of the original 
application, and when this would be repaid. From these checks, it made a decision to offer 
credit limit increases.
Given Mr Zs history of repayment and credit score I dont think Halifax wouldve been 
prompted to carry out more checks, nor do I think it needed to. Halifax has a duty to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before deciding to lend. In this case, I think the 
checks it carried out for Mr Zs credit limit increases were reasonable and proportionate. The 
increases werent significant in relation to Mr Zs income that hed declared. And the way 
hed managed his credit card account, as well as his credit score improving, indicated that 
the increases would be affordable.
I do understand that Mr Zs current account shows payday loans and hes now explained the 
situation he was in at the time. But I dont think Halifax needed to carry out any additional 
checks which may have uncovered this. Its also important to note that Mr Zs current 
account did show regular deposits and income into the account, as well as repayment of the 
loans within month. So, whilst I dont think Halifax needed to do any further checks, if it had 
looked at his account, it may still not have understood Mr Zs full position. I wouldnt have 
expected Halifax to ask Mr Z for his payslips or proof of income for a credit limit increase of 
this size. I think that the checks Halifax carried out when it decided to offer Mr Z credit limit 
increases were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, which is attached and 
forms part of this decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible when
increasing his credit card limit.
What happened
Mr Z has a credit card account with Halifax. In 2016, Halifax wrote to Mr Z saying it would
increase his credit limit from £500 to £1,500 and gave Mr Z the option to opt out of the
increase. In March 2017, Halifax increased Mr Zs credit limit to £2,000.
Mr Z complained to Halifax as he felt the increases were irresponsible. He explained hed
entered into a Debt management Plan (DMP) in 2019 and the credit limit increases had
contributed to his financial difficulty. Halifax didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that at
the time of the increases there was no indication that Mr Z was in financial difficulty and that
hed made more than the minimum repayments in the time leading up to the increases.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He believed Halifax shouldve carried
out further checks on Mr Zs situation before allowing him an increase  this was because
Mr Z had gone over his limit multiple times before the increases. The investigator said that
additional checks wouldve revealed Mr Z had taken five payday loans prior to the credit card
increase. He believed that Halifax shouldve done additional checks, and if so, it wouldnt
have granted the increase.
Halifax disagreed with the investigator. It said that the checks it had carried out were
proportionate to the lending. It said Mr Z had only gone over his limit by a few pence or
pounds, and then made a payment soon after paying more than his minimum payment. It
said it had checked his credit score which had increased and that his disposable income was
sufficient for the increases. Halifax also looked into the payday loans after the investigator
mentioned them and it said it still wouldve increased Mr Zs credit limit if these had been
known to it. This was because the payday loans werent used to repay debt and were often
repaid in full within the month when Mr Z had large payments into his account. Halifax said
there were no indications Mr Z was in financial difficulty when it increased his credit limit, so
it asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different
outcome to the investigator. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the
increases wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for;
and Mr Zs personal circumstances at the time of increase. As Mr Z has complained about
two increases, Ill look at these both separately.
2016 increase
Halifax increased Mr Zs credit limit from £500 to £1,500 in August 2016. I can see that at the
time it did this, it looked at Mr Zs income and his credit score. It also looked at the way he
managed his credit card up to that date.I can see that Mr Z went over his limit a number of times prior to the increase. But Ive taken
a look specifically at how much he went over his limit by, and for how long. I can see the
most Mr Z was over his limit by was £22. And sometimes it was only a few pence. Each time
Mr Z brought the account back into credit and I can see the over limit fees were refunded.
Mr Z regularly made more than his minimum payments.
Halifax was able to see Mr Zs income at the time. And it could see that after Mr Zs debts
(that it knew of), housing costs and essential expenditure he had in excess of £2,000
disposable income. This was sufficient to cover the new credit limit in full. I dont think Halifax
wouldve known that Mr Z was in financial difficulty. And I think it conducted proportionate
checks for the type of credit it was providing.
I do understand that Mr Z took out payday lending prior to this first increase. Halifax has
explained that it didnt see this as it didnt need to conduct further checks. It also noted that
the payday lending was repaid within a month and so it didnt flag up on the credit check it
did. I agree with the investigator that payday loans would usually indicate theres a problem.
But as Ive explained above, I dont think Halifax had to undertake more checks than it did
here. And it doesnt appear, from his statements or card activity, at this point that Mr Z was
in financial difficulty. So, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in increasing his credit limit.
2017 increase
In March 2017, Halifax increased Mr Zs credit limit by £500 to £2,000. In the months prior to
this increase I can see that Mr Z hadnt made many transactions on his credit card and
continued to pay more than his minimum repayment. In some circumstances hed made
substantial payments towards his credit card. So, when Halifax decided it would lend him an
additional £500 in credit it checked his account activity and his credit score. I think this was
proportionate.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mr Zs credit score had increased since the first
increase, and that his disposable income had increased as well to over £3,000. So, I dont
think it wouldve been alerted that something might be wrong, or that it should conduct
further checks.
I understand that Mr Z was experiencing some difficulties at this time financially, but I dont
think Halifax wouldve known this. Mr Z said he had different accounts and had some debt
he was paying off from those other accounts including school fees. But Halifax wouldnt have
known this at the time. It didnt have details of Mr Zs other accounts, and the checks it
carried out didnt show any cause for concern. Nor did Mr Zs account activity. So, I think that
it was reasonable for it to increase his credit card limit based on the checks it did carry out.
In summary I believe proportionate checks were carried out by Halifax when it increased
Mr Zs credit limit in both 2016 and 2017. And based on those checks, I think the decision to
lend was fair. I do understand Mr Z was having financial problems at the time of these
increases, but I dont think Halifax couldve known this based on the information it had. And I
think it has shown that had it done further checks at the time, the credit limit increases would
still show as affordable based on Mr Zs income. This is because some of the debts Mr Z
had werent paid from his Halifax account, and so it wouldnt have known about them unless
Mr Z told them. I cant see Mr Z made Halifax aware he was having financial trouble at the
time of either of these increases. So, I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong in
increasing his credit limit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
 
Charlotte WilsonOmbudsman