DRN-3594449
The complaint
Mrs H complains her mortgage adviser gave her unsuitable advice in relation to her interest 
only mortgage.
The advisers firm was an appointed representative of HL Partnership Limited (HLP) until 
2016. Where I refer to the actions of HLP in this decision, I am also referring to the actions of 
Mrs Hs adviser unless I say otherwise. 
What happened
In around June 2013 Mrs H approached HLP for advice about a mortgage when, as part of 
an agreement reached with her ex-husband when they divorced, she was obliged to move 
home. In August 2013 HLP put in an application to port her existing mortgage which had a 
term remaining of seven and a half years. 
The lender wrote to Mrs H in 2019 to say shed have to repay the mortgage in 2021. Mrs H 
had understood from HLP shed be able to continue paying on an interest only basis 
throughout her life and repay her mortgage when the property was sold after shed passed 
away. She tried to discuss things with her adviser then and was distressed when he wasnt 
available. 
Mrs H was able to arrange a mortgage herself when her existing mortgage came to an end. 
But she felt HLP had mis-advised her in 2013. She was unhappy she couldnt speak to her 
adviser in 2019. And she was concerned the new mortgage had much higher contractual 
monthly payments (CMP) than the previous mortgage. She complained to HLP.
HLP didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. They said the adviser had given suitable advice based 
on her needs and circumstances at the time. And they werent responsible for Mrs Hs 
difficulties in getting hold of the adviser in 2019 as he hadnt been part of their network since 
2016.
Our investigator acknowledged Mrs Hs adviser had led her to believe hed take care of her 
mortgage arrangements and shed be able to continue on an interest only basis when the 
term of her existing mortgage ended. But she didnt think the advice hed given about the 
mortgage in 2013 was unsuitable. And she said we couldnt consider the complaint about 
what had happened after 2016 against HLP since they werent responsible for the advisers 
actions then. Since Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators view, her complaints been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the challenges Mrs H has faced over the years. And I acknowledge her 
strength of feeling about what happened. But, having considered everything carefully, I dont 
uphold her complaint for the reasons Ill explain. Id like to reassure Mrs H and HLP Ive 
taken into account all theyve told us, even if I dont mention something specifically in my 
decision. No discourtesy is intended by that  it simply reflects the informal nature of the 
service we provide.
Mrs H has told us shed had an historic relationship with the mortgage adviser who advised 
on her mortgage in 2013. For personal reasons it was important she should be able to 
remain in the house she was buying at the time. Mrs H trusted the adviser who reassured 
her hed look after her interests in that regard. 
Mrs H says she didnt see any of the paperwork relating to the advice HLP gave her in 2013 
until the Financial Ombudsman got hold of it as part of our investigations. Ive no reason to 
doubt Mrs Hs recollection of events. But Im conscious memories can fade. And I think she 
probably saw at least some of the documents at the time. She signed both the fact find and 
suitability letter HLP prepared confirming shed received them and accepted the information 
they contained as accurate. And I think its likely the mortgage offer would have been sent to 
her direct by the lender, in line with usual practices. 
I can understand Mrs H may not have appreciated all the information the documents 
contained at the time since shed relied on what HLP had told her verbally. And she disputes 
the accuracy of some of the information they recorded. For example, she never planned to 
sell the house to repay the existing mortgage as the documents suggest - she intended to 
stay there for the remainder of her life. But, from what shes told us, I think Mrs H understood 
her mortgage was interest only and the term would end after seven and half years. 
If Im wrong about that, the HLP fact find and suitability letter set out the information in a way 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. If Mrs H had read them, as I think it would be 
reasonable to expect given their importance, even taking account of her circumstances, I 
think she ought to have understood the information they contained. And she had the chance 
to point out any inaccuracies at the time. The mortgage offer issued by the lender also 
explained the terms of the mortgage. 
Bearing the above in mind, I think the crux of Mrs Hs complaint is that HLP reassured her 
theyd put in place arrangements beyond the end of the term so she could stay in the 
property.
Before considering that, Ive thought about whether the recommendation HLP made in 2013 
was suitable. Mrs H had to move because of an agreement shed reached as part of her 
divorce, so it was right for HLP to make recommendations on an appropriate mortgage. The 
fact find recorded, broadly, Mrs H wanted an interest only mortgage and her main objective 
was to keep her CMP low and benefit from her existing interest rate.
HLP could have considered whether a lifetime mortgage was suitable for Mrs H. That would 
have avoided the need to make new arrangements when the existing mortgage term ended. 
But its likely that would have had a higher CMP if Mrs H had chosen to make interest 
payments. I think Mrs H would probably have chosen to pay interest as its what she has 
now chosen to do through a retirement interest only mortgage. So, I dont think a lifetime 
mortgage option in 2013 would have met Mrs Hs objective of keeping her CMP low or been 
cost effective overall.
Mrs H says HLP never discussed the possibility of a repayment mortgage with her. The 
suitability letter said she couldnt afford a repayment mortgage, which was the only way of 
ensuring she would have paid off the loan at the end of the term. So, even if the possibility 
wasnt discussed verbally, it was set out in the paperwork I think Mrs H probably received 
and would have understood. A repayment mortgage would have cost roughly £1800 a 
month. The available figures suggest Mrs H would have had enough disposable income to afford that. But it would have taken a considerable amount of what she had left each month. 
And increases in interest rates could have reduced that further. Mrs H feels the CMP she is 
currently paying of over £570 is too high. So, on balance, I dont think she would have 
chosen a repayment mortgage in 2013, even if that had been an affordable option for her.
HLP carried out an appropriate search of available interest rate products and filtered those 
that might be suitable for Mrs H. None was as favourable as her existing deal. Even though 
there was the possibility of the tracker rate she had leading to her CMP increasing, I think 
the recommendation to port her existing mortgage and stay on that rate was suitable in the 
circumstances. It reasonably met her objectives at the time. And she benefited from the 
lower rate for the remainder of the term.  
Since Mrs H understood HLP would make arrangements for her to continue to remain in her 
property, she was understandably concerned when she wasnt able to get in touch with her 
adviser and faced having to sell. I think its unlikely HLP would have guaranteed in 2013 the 
arrangements they could potentially make once the term of the existing mortgage ended. 
Any decision to extend the term of the existing mortgage would have been for the lender to 
make. And the types of mortgages and available interest rate products change over time. 
So, its unlikely HLP could have given any firm indication of the mortgages available to     
Mrs H, the rates she might be able to access, or what her CMP might be, several years 
down the line. HLP would have had to investigate what might be available when the existing 
mortgage ended. 
On balance, I dont think its fair to hold HLP responsible for any indication given by the 
adviser hed be available to advise Mrs H or that thered be a suitable product he could 
recommend in a changing mortgage marketplace several years later.
Whilst Mrs H was upset the adviser wasnt available to help her in 2019, I dont think HLP did 
anything wrong in 2013. Its possible that if Mrs H had been able to speak to the adviser in 
2019, he would have been able to arrange an alternative mortgage for her. Im pleased to 
see she was able to arrange things herself, although I acknowledge the time and trouble that 
took. And although Mrs H is concerned about the CMP, thats a reflection of changes in the 
products available since she took out her previous mortgage. Theres no guarantee the 
adviser would have been able to arrange more favourable terms.
Mrs H felt someone should have contacted her about what to do even if the adviser was no 
longer part of HLPs network from 2016. In the end she had to make her own arrangements 
for a lifetime mortgage with another lender. Since the adviser wasnt part of the HLP network 
from 2016, I cant hold them responsible for the advisers actions from that point onwards. I 
wouldnt have expected HLP to have contacted Mrs H to let her know the adviser was no 
longer under their umbrella. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs H will be disappointed and I do 
understand the stress the situation has caused her, I dont uphold her complaint against 
HLP.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Julia WilkinsonOmbudsman