DRN-3707400
The complaint
Mrs L, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Mrs L was advanced five home collected loans between September 2015 and 
March 2018. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 15/09/2015 25/05/2016 34 £10.00
2 £300.00 25/05/2016 02/12/2016 33 £15.00
3 £300.00 02/12/2016 26/07/2017 33 £15.00
4 £300.00 26/07/2017 06/03/2018 33 £15.00
5 £1,000.00 06/03/2018 13/03/2019 52 £35.00
Following Mrs Ls complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 1  3 so she didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint about these loans. But 
she thought the lending was now harmful for Mrs L by the time loans 4 and 5 were granted 
and so she upheld Mrs Ls complaint about these two loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome and Ive summarised its comments below;
Mrs L repaid these loans without undue hardship.
Morses says for loan 5, it carried out more thorough checks before granting it.
Mrs Ls income was checked with the credit reference agency and so Morses was 
happy the figure declared was accurate. 
These loans appeared affordable for Mrs L.
Mrs L had a good repayment history. 
Mrs Ls representative hasnt commented on the outcome reached by the adjudicator. 
The case was then referred to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs L could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Ls income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs L. These factors include:
Mrs L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs L.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs L could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs L was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ls complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs L (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. 
I would add, that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans. So, I say no more about these loans. 
Loans 4 and 5
For loans 4 and 5, Morses has shown that it asked Mrs L for details of her income and 
expenditure. She declared, for each loan an income of £250 with outgoings of £70 per week. 
This left Mrs L with a weekly disposable income of £180 per week for each loan to make her 
weekly repayments of no more than £35. 
Based solely on Mrs Ls income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mrs L had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Mrs Ls finances. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very 
least, started to have verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest it carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mrs L. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs L, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ls case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs L was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs L had taken out four loans in 23 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mrs L was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Mrs L was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous 
loan was repaid and some the loans were used to fully repay the previous one. For 
example, it seems that some of loan 3 went towards repaying loan 2. To me, this is a 
sign that Mrs L was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather than 
as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mrs Ls weekly commitments generally 
either increased or remained the same. There was no time when her commitment 
decreased. Which may have given Morses confidence that Mrs L was no longer 
reliant on these loans. However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive 
manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Mrs L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out 34 months after Mrs Ls first loan and was to be repaid over the longest 
term  52 weeks. Her final loan was the largest capital loan to date and was more 
than five times the value of the first loan.  Mrs L had paid large amounts of interest to, 
in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs L lost out when Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ls indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs L borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mrs L may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs L would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mrs L with loans 4 and 5. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs L towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs L originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs L the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Ls borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans entirely from Mrs 
Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs L as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman