DRN-3824319
The complaint
Ms R complains that Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard) wrongly sold around 
£200 worth of her investments without her knowledge or consent to cover a payment it 
incorrectly described as fees after it failed to collect a direct debit payment it should and 
could have taken from her bank account. She is unhappy that Vanguard gave her various 
explanations for its actions and that the reason it gave for not taking the direct debit is 
contradicted by different information from her bank. 
To put things right, Ms R wants:
a full investigation to find out exactly what happened, and 
Vanguard to pay her more redress than it has so far paid to provide financial 
recompense for the investments sold without her consent, and 
to reflect the distress shes been caused as a result of her missing funds and being 
charged a fee that was never owed. 
What happened
Ms R held ISA investments with Vanguard and she had a regular £200 monthly direct debit 
arrangement set up that enabled her to fund her Vanguard account from her bank account 
around the end of each month. 
On 21 March 2022, Vanguard said it had initiated collection of her regular £200 direct debit 
payment with the intention of collecting this amount on the 31 March 2022.
On 25 March 2022, Ms R cancelled her regular direct debit payment directly with Vanguard. 
Ms R understood from Vanguard that any payments scheduled within the next 8 business 
days would still be collected so that the direct debit payment due on 31 March 2022 would 
still leave her bank account and fund her ISA account.
On 31 March 2022, Vanguard followed its usual process and pre-credited Ms Rs account 
with £200 and invested the money on 1 April 2022. It did not however receive a direct debit 
payment.
On 4 April 2022, Vanguard reversed the pre-credited £200 Regular Deposit it had put on 
Ms Rs account as this hadnt been made. This meant there was a negative cash balance on 
the account which needed to be replaced. Vanguard generally allows 8 days to cover any 
shortfall by means of a debit card payment before a deduction is made. 
On 19 April 2022, Vanguard sold funds to bring the account back into credit. On Ms Rs 
statement, Vanguard described this transaction as: Selling of account investments for 
payment of Fees.
When Ms R complained to Vanguard, it said it had automatically credited Ms Rs account 
and invested in the funds she had requested but when it was unable to collect the direct 
debit, it reversed the payment back. Vanguard said it had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions when taking action to cover the shortfall on her account. It apologised for the error 
made regarding the terminology used on her cash statement but said it wasnt upholding her 
complaint.
Ms R was told by her bank that there was nothing to show Vanguard had made any attempt 
to take the debit payment and so she didnt accept Vanguards explanation when it told her 
that: The collection was rejected by your bank.
Vanguard maintained that it had instigated the collection process before Ms R cancelled the 
debit but hadnt been able to collect the direct debit on the due date. It said it had then 
followed its standard process of removing the pre-credit on her account when the cash failed 
to reach her ISA and taken steps required to cover the pre-funded deal as per its process. 
Vanguard accepted however that the cash statement had been misleading and that when it 
incorrectly described the shortfall resulting from reversing the £200 pre-credit as fees this 
had caused additional and unnecessary confusion. For this trouble and upset, Vanguard 
credited Ms Rs bank account with £25.
Ms R didnt accept that Vanguard had attempted to take the March direct debit as her bank 
continued to assure her that its records would show a declined direct debit and it had no 
such record. 
Ms R didn't feel this was enough to resolve her complaint so she came to us and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. At the instigation of the investigator, Vanguard 
reviewed Ms Rs complaint. It said (in brief summary) that:
Vanguard attempted to collect the direct debit but couldnt as this had been blocked 
by Ms Rs bank
it confirmed that the reason the direct debit did not go through was due to the 
payment rejection by Ms Rs bank 
Vanguard accepted when that happened, it should have sent Ms R a message 
explaining that her direct debit had not been collected and the steps needed to rectify 
the situation. As Vanguard didnt do this, Ms R couldnt amend her account in time 
it added the payment to her account and when she didnt pay the money into her 
account, the holdings it had purchased for her were sold without her knowledge in 
line with Vanguards process but causing Ms R to complain.
Vanguard said that when Ms R took corrective action and re-purchased the funds herself on 
27 April 2022, in the event she hadnt been financially disadvantaged on the transactions as 
it had checked prices and these were lower than the price on 1 April 2022. Vanguard made a 
further payment of £75 to Ms Rs bank account in recognition of Ms Rs frustration at the 
issues she faced with the direct debit and the fact that it didnt update her about the situation 
in the first instance and conclude things for her in a timely manner. 
Our investigator felt that Vanguard had dealt reasonably with Ms R overall having 
acknowledged the shortcomings in the service it had provided and paid her £100 for the 
trouble and upset its actions had caused. So our investigator said she wouldnt be asking 
Vanguard to do anything further.  
Ms R disagreed with our investigator and sent detailed observations, which Ive briefly 
summarised as follows:
Ms R feels the investigators opinion lacks explanation and mentions things she did 
not say, putting the whole investigation in question
she wants to know why we havent further investigated the possibility that Vanguard 
cancelled the direct debit prematurely and that this is the reason the direct debit couldn't be executed
Ms R says we need to see both sides (of the direct debit transaction) and more 
information to confirm what Vanguard has said
she says Vanguard's notes do not have a greater weight than her conversations with 
her bank and whilst her bank had no reason to falsify information, Vanguard had 
reason to withhold information.
The complaint comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanguard has acknowledged there were service failings on its part so I can completely 
understand why Ms R feels upset and frustrated by what happened. But after carrying out an 
independent review, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in our approach. My 
focus is on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. This means 
I wont necessarily mention everything that Ms R has brought to my attention or pursue 
unanswered questions where I dont consider this necessary to reach a fair outcome. And, 
like the investigator, Ive expressed in my own words what I understand are Ms Rs main 
complaint issues. 
Ive kept in mind that Ms R told us: I just want a proper investigation so that consumers like 
myself can be confident terms will not be breached, undue fees will not be incurred and 
stock sold without our knowledge or consent and that consequences will act as a deterrent 
to any potentially unlawful actions. And I appreciate that Ms R would like us to carry out a 
full investigation as theres some contradictory information about, amongst other things, why 
the direct debit wasnt taken. But Id like to explain at the outset that my role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Ms R and Vanguard and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. This service is not here to deal 
with misconduct or wrongdoing. I do not have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses or tell a business it must change the way it operates. Thats the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And its not for me to legally determine 
whether or not theres been unlawful action in the same way that a court or tribunal would. 
I can tell Vanguard to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am 
satisfied that it did something wrong or it acted unfairly or unreasonably  and this led to 
Ms R suffering some detriment and/or financial loss which hasnt yet been addressed. 
The crux of Ms Rs complaint seems to me to be whether Vanguard acted fairly and 
reasonably in connection with what happened after she cancelled her direct debit, resulting 
in Vanguard selling the £200 worth of investments it had purchased on the strength of the 
pre-credit, so putting her Vanguard account into deficit. 
I've no good reason to doubt what Vanguard has said about why the direct debit payment 
failed. As I would expect, Vanguard had already set things in motion to take the debit on 
31 March 2022 prior to Ms R cancelling it on 25 March 2022. And it has provided evidence 
from its system records that I am satisfied shows it attempted unsuccessfully to take the 
£200 direct debit on 30 March 2022. I appreciate that Ms R disputes this happened and she is relying on information her bank has provided to her. But what Ms R (and her bank) says 
isnt enough to persuade me that shes correct in thinking that Vanguard mistakenly made no 
attempt to take the direct debit. I must make my decision based on what I think is most likely 
to have happened taking into account all the information thats available. And I must be 
impartial and give due weight to information from both parties when making my decision.
I find, on balance, that Vanguard tried and failed to collect Ms Rs regular £200 direct debit at 
the end of March 2022. This means I dont find that Vanguard made any error or that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms R in the run up to calling for the debit or that it has 
misinformed her about this.
But it is not in dispute that Vanguard failed to tell Ms R, straightaway when her direct debit 
transfer failed, that she needed to take steps to correct the position. Vanguard accepts this 
was an error on its part so I dont need to say more about this and I've concentrated on the 
question of fair redress. 
Ms R had ample funds in her bank account available to cover the direct debit transaction 
and, had she been alerted to what happened by Vanguard, its likely she would have taken 
immediate steps to rectify the position. So its fair and reasonable to expect Vanguard to 
cover any shortfall if its error left Ms R out of pocket financially. 
Vanguard has said it cost Ms R less to buy her investments back than the same transactions 
cost on 1 April 2022  which it reversed at no loss to Ms R. I havent been provided with any 
information to show that Vanguards pricing information isnt correct. This leads me to 
conclude that Ms R isnt worse off in money terms as a result of Vanguards failure to alert 
her to the need to correct the position on her account sooner. 
I appreciate that Ms R feels she is owed compensation for the time she was disinvested. But 
had the purchase she made on 1 April 2022 not been reversed by Vanguard, then she would 
have been holding investments that were worth less on the date she actually bought them 
back again later that month. All this leads me to conclude that theres no identifiable cash 
loss that Vanguard needs to redress. 
But fair compensation isnt just about not being worse off in money terms  it needs to 
properly reflect the full impact on Ms R of Vanguards service failings on this occasion. 
When thinking about redress, I must keep in mind that we expect consumers to take 
reasonable steps to mitigate loss when things go wrong. Theres more information on our 
website about our approach to redress. Thinking about what happened on 31 March 2022 
when Vanguard failed to alert Ms R to the failed direct debit, I think it's fair to say that Ms R 
could have discovered this information herself if she had checked her bank account to 
ensure that the final direct debit payment had been made successfully. I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect she might have done that in this situation. And had she discovered 
the debit hadnt left her bank account, I think she wouldve likely taken action to pay the 
failed £200 direct debit payment, within the 8 day window Vanguard allowed for this 
purpose, and so avoided much of the stress and anxiety she has been caused.
 
I can see how Vanguards handling of matters undoubtedly caused Ms R some distress and 
inconvenience but I think the payments it has made are fair compensation for this. 
All in all, I consider that the £75 payment Vanguard paid to reflect the trouble and upset it 
caused Ms Rs when it didnt update her about the failed direct debit more promptly is 
broadly fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances.In coming to my decision, Ive also taken into account that Vanguard admitted it 
misdescribed fees on Ms Rs ISA statement. Ms R told us that on 5 April 2022 she also 
received a secure message telling her that fees were due. As her fees were set up through 
Vanguard to be automatically paid from her bank account she left this to happen 
automatically. It was only later she found out these fees were in fact the £200 pre-credit 
repayment. 
I agree that the wording used when describing fees was unhelpful and inaccurate, but this 
didnt have any adverse financial impact on Ms R  she wasnt any worse off in money 
terms as a result of the wording Vanguard used. And the statement and secure messages 
where this appeared were private and intended only for Ms Rs eyes, so Vanguards error 
had limited reach. Having thought about this, I consider that Vanguards £25 payment is 
adequate to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused her.
Ms R said shed been extremely worried and shed had to spend a lot of time dealing with 
this matter, not least because she was told different things by different people at Vanguard. 
Ive looked carefully through all the information provided, including the exchange of secure 
messages. The root of the problem seems to me to be that it simply wasnt possible for 
Ms R to reconcile what Vanguard was saying about the direct debit payment with 
information Ms R had been told by her bank. With the benefit of hindsight, I can see that 
things might not always have been explained as well as they could have been, but I havent 
seen anything to show that Vanguard told Ms R anything that was materially misleading or 
that suggests there was ever an intention to be other than informative and helpful. 
Looked at overall, Vanguard has paid a total amount of redress (£100) that is in line with the 
level of award I consider fair to reflect the extent and impact on Ms R of service failings on 
Vanguards part. I dont find it would be fair to ask Vanguard to make any additional 
payment here.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R. But as Im satisfied Vanguard has dealt with her complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful 
and even though this isnt the outcome Ms R hoped for, she will feel that her complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint and I do not require Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd to 
take any further action in relation to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman