DRN-3906869
The complaint
Mr M complains about Simplyhealth Accesss handling of his dental insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Simplyhealth has explained that Mr Ms initial claim submission did not go through its 
system properly, and needed to be processed manually. By the time the claim was 
assigned to someone, Mr M had already resubmitted his claim. 
Whilst its unfortunate that Mr Ms initial claim submission did not go through 
automatically, there is nothing to suggest that Mr Ms documents were lost or 
accessible to third parties. Simplyhealth has confirmed the documents were not lost. 
It says its advisers could not see the claim on its system when Mr M called because 
the claim had not been manually processed at that point.
Mr M thinks Simplyhealth changed the date of his later claim submission to hide 
evidence of its delays in processing the claim. However, our investigator has already 
explained the claim date was changed to when Simplyhealth started to manually 
process the claim. I dont find that Simplyhealth caused unreasonable delays in 
assessing the claim. 
Mr M complains Simplyhealth didnt respond to his complaint about changing the 
date of the claim submission. Though as our investigator has said, we cant consider 
concerns that relate solely to complaint handling. DISP 2.3.1R says our service can 
consider a complaint if it relates to a regulated activity. Complaint handling on its own 
isnt a regulated activity, so I wont comment further on this point.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman