DRN-2741012
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group (ZAD) 
dealt with their claim. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C booked a holiday on 15 January 2019 which was due to depart on 28 January. 
They bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy on 25 January. Mr C declared hed 
had back pain and this was accepted by ZAD.
On 28 January, Mr C saw his GP for pain relief due to back pain. Mr C told his GP that he 
had low-level back pain on 23 January but the intensity had developed over the weekend.
Mr C was unable to go on the holiday and made a claim for cancellation. But ZAD declined 
the claim because Mr Cs back pain had started before Mr C bought the policy. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think ZAD had declined the claim 
unfairly as Mr C didnt tell ZAD about the lower back pain hed experienced at the time of 
purchasing the policy. 
Mr C disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 18 March 2021. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy excludes the following:
Circumstances which you knew about before you purchased this insurance or at the 
time of booking your trip (whichever is the earlier) which could result in a claim.
Mr C says that although he had lower back pain on 23 January 2019, this wasnt something 
he thought would become more serious at the time he took out his insurance. And he also 
didnt see his doctor until 28 January, which meant it only became severe enough to see the 
doctor after hed bought the insurance policy. 
timeline 
15 January 2019  holiday booked
23 January 2019  Mr C had low back pain
25 January 2019 Mr C bought the insurance policy 
28 January 2019  Mr C visited his GP as his back pain became more severe. The trip was 
cancelled 
Mr C says that when he experienced lower back pain on 23 January 2019, he didnt have 
any concerns and this sort of pain hadnt prevented him from travelling in the past. When he 
bought his policy on 25 January, he fully expected to travel on 28 January. His pain 
intensified on 26 January and he saw his GP on 28 January. 
ZAD has said Mr C was aware he had a problem which was getting worse before purchasing 
the insurance. And although he declared the condition, he was aware of a potential need to 
make a claim as he had suffered an exacerbation of the condition at the time of purchase. 
Mr C says his lower back pain is a fairly common occurrence and not an exacerbation. It was 
the onset of severe spasms on 26 January which led to his claim. 
ZAD has relied on the above exclusion. 
The exclusion talks about the earlier circumstances of either booking the holiday, or buying 
the insurance - to which the exclusion applies. But at the time of booking his trip, which was 
the earlier event, Mr C didnt have any low back pain. In addition, Mr C says the low-level 
back pain didnt give him cause to think he may need to cancel his holiday. 
Mr C didnt see his GP until 28 January. And hed declared his back condition which ZAD 
had accepted, which would include the risk of a cancellation based on back problems. So I 
dont think its fair for ZAD to decline the claim based on Mr Cs low back pain on 23 
January. Mr C has explained that as someone with a long-term back condition, it wouldnt be 
unusual to suffer from low back pain  and Im persuaded by his explanation and testimony, 
especially since Mr C had declared back problems at the time of booking his insurance. 
putting things right 
ZAD should pay the claim, minus any applicable excess and pay 8% simple interest per year 
from the date the claim was declined, to the date of settlement. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have responded to my provisional findings, which I adopt as part of this final 
decision. Mr and Mrs C have accepted my provisional decision but ZAD has not. In 
summary, it has said:
The real issue is that Mr C bought the insurance after he began to experience back 
pain
Mr C didnt buy the insurance at the same time as booking his flights, hotel and car 
service
It could be argued that Mr C knew he would use the policy to file a claim as he was 
still in the 14-day cooling off period and could have cancelled his travel policy and his 
trip
The medical evidence states pain started 5 days before the trip and the policy says 
claims will not be covered that could reasonably be anticipated at the time the trip 
was booked
Ive considered ZADs points very carefully. Mr C isnt required to buy his insurance at the 
same time as booking his flights, hotel and other services. So I dont think this is relevant. 
Ive also fully considered whether Mr C knew he would use the policy at the time be bought 
his insurance. And Im persuaded by his testimony that he didnt think he would need to cancel his holiday as he had previously travelled with low level back pain and the pain only 
intensified at a later stage. 
The medical evidence isnt in dispute. Mr C accepts that the low-level pain started prior to 
buying the insurance policy but it was the later spasms which caused him concern and led to 
him to seeing his GP and ultimately submitting a claim. The policy says claims will not be 
covered which could reasonably be anticipated at the time the trip was booked. At the time 
the trip was booked, Mr C was completely symptom free.
Im not persuaded that Mr C deliberately took a policy knowing that he might need to claim. 
And he had bought an annual multi trip policy and so I dont see why Mr C would cancel it 
within the 14-day cooling off period as he would be able to use it for other trips he booked in 
that year. 
Mr C has raised concerns about the way ZAD dealt with his complaint. But complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity and so I cant comment on that in my decision. 
Having considered both sides responses, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. 
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr C accepts our final decision, I direct 
ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group to pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim and pay 8% simple 
interest per year from the date the payment should have been made, to the date of 
settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman