DRN-3922405
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mrs B was looking for work. She found an advert on a popular social media website and 
began communicating with someone claiming to represent a company that Ill call P. 
Ps representative explained that, in order to earn money, shed need to deposit funds on to 
its platform. This would allow Mrs B to reserve tasks. The tasks would consist of liking 
social media posts in exchange for money. 
Mrs B, despite expressing both some surprise that shed need to pay money in order to earn 
and some confusion about the concept as a whole, agreed to deposit funds onto the 
platform. Her husband, sister and several friends also lost money to the same scam. 
She was added to an instant messaging group, where she says hundreds of other users of P 
were very positive about it. She says that there were also a significant number of positive 
reviews of the platform. 
Mrs B deposited over £2,000 over a few days in late January 2022 by sending faster 
payments to two limited companies which were not obviously linked to P. I understand that 
by February 2022 the app stopped working and it was revealed that P had been operating as 
a scam.
Mrs B referred the matter to Monzo, but it declined to refund her money. It said that it had 
considered the case under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires it signatories (or firms like Monzo that have agreed to adhere to 
its principles) to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances, 
but that Mrs B had failed to carry out sufficient due diligence. 
The matter was referred to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold the 
complaint. They thought that the returns were too good to be true and Mrs B clearly doubted 
the veracity of the scheme. They also noted that the limited company which Mrs B said that 
shed checked before depositing any funds, hadnt actually been registered until after she 
made her deposits. 
Mrs Bs representatives didnt agree, they argued that:
-The scam was very convincing  particularly the professional looking app, including a 
support function.
-Mrs B was given a detailed and plausible explanation of how the scheme worked and 
that explanation is consistent with information that is publicly available. 
-Mrs B reasonably believed that P was affiliated with a genuine firm that shared part 
of its name.
-Mrs B was able to withdraw money from the platform, which strengthened her belief 
that it was operating legitimately. 
-She also carried out various online checks, none of which revealed P to be a scam 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mrs B will be responsible for payments shes authorised 
herself. But, as already mentioned, Monzo have agreed to adhere to the principles of the 
CRM Code. In this case it seeks to rely on at least one of the exceptions to reimbursement  
that Mrs B made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was 
the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered this point carefully and, while I know this will be disappointing for Mrs B, I 
think that Monzo acted fairly when it declined her claim on this basis. I also havent found 
any other reason for Monzo to be responsible for her loss. 
Im aware that there are many victims of this scam. I understand that seeing that many other 
people were involved and seemed to be having positive experiences would have been 
reassuring for Mrs B. While the app doesnt appear to me to be the most professionally 
designed, it clearly had a significant degree of functionality and seems to have been 
available through major app stores.
Like the Investigator, I note that the limited company that Mrs B says she researched prior to 
going ahead with the payments was only registered after she made them  so I cant agree 
this could have played a part in reassuring her of Ps legitimacy. Mrs B says she carried out 
other checks too  such as searching for P on the Financial Conduct Authority website. I 
cant see that she would have found anything about P on its website (either positive or 
negative), so Im not sure how reassuring this would have been either. Im aware that P 
claimed to be operating under some sort of permission of the FCA, though its not clear 
whether this claim had been made to Mrs B.
Mrs B says that she believed that P was affiliated with a genuine company which shared part 
of its name. But, Im not sure how reasonable that belief was and it would have been easy to 
verify whether that was the case by simply checking with the genuine firm. 
More broadly, I think there were two inherently concerning aspects of the job opportunity:
-The suggestion that an individual would be able to generate a reasonable income 
simply by liking social media posts; and
-That in order to earn money, a user would have to first pay a significant (in 
comparison to the amount being generated) sum of money.
Mrs Bs representatives have provided a link to a website which they say shows that there is 
a market in purchasing likes. Im also aware thats the case. But the link provided shows that 
10,000 likes can be purchased for less than $100. 
So, had Mrs B known about the genuine market for purchasing likes, she would have seen 
that what she was being offered just didnt add up. There would never be sufficient value 
generated from individually liking social media posts in order to generate any significant 
income. Its not clear that Mrs B did know about the (arguably) legitimate market for purchasing likes. 
But she did know and express some surprise about the notion that shed need to deposit 
funds in order to earn money. She initially turned down the offer, seemingly for this reason. I 
agree with Mrs B that it was an unusual proposition. So, Ive thought about the explanation 
she was given for this and whether that was reasonable. It was explained to Mrs B that the 
money she paid acted like a deposit  taken in order to ensure that she would complete a 
particular task. She was assured that she could withdraw the funds at any time if she no 
longer wanted to go ahead with the tasks. Again, this strikes me as a rather odd and illogical 
explanation. If the user could decide to stop completing the tasks at any time and receive a 
full refund, then there would be no reason for the employer to take a deposit.  And given that 
the deposits were far larger than the amount that could be earnt from any single task, any 
prospect of breaking even or making profit was some months away. While Mrs B was able to 
withdraw a small sum, this was only a fraction of the amount deposited. 
Ive also noted that Mrs B was asked to pay money to two separate accounts, neither of 
which had any obvious connection to P. One of them appears to be an import/export 
business. I think this should have been of some concern to Mrs B.
Overall, while I accept there were some convincing aspects to this scam, I think Mrs B 
should have, and to some extent did, recognise that there were significant reasons to think 
that P might not have been a legitimate enterprise. So, I think Monzo can fairly rely on one of 
the exceptions to reimbursement in the CRM Code. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo ought to have, in line with its own obligations under 
the CRM Code, as well as what I consider to be fair and reasonable, recognised the 
possibility that the payments Mrs B made were as a result of fraud. But, the payments here 
werent particularly suspicious in nature. While not insignificant sums, the largest payment 
was for just over £1,000 and although the payments took place over a matter of a few days, I 
dont think that there was anything particularly concerning about their nature or frequency. 
So, I dont find that Monzo has failed in its obligations under the CRM Code and Im not 
persuaded it could have reasonably done anything to prevent the fraud. 
Finally, Ive considered Monzos attempts to recover Mrs Bs money. It contacted the firms 
which received her money within 24 hours of Mrs B reporting the scam, but they advised that 
no funds remained. In my view, Monzo ought to have acted a little more quickly.  However, 
Ive seen evidence from one of the firms which shows Mrs Bs money was removed from the 
account before she reported the fraud. The other firm which received her money did not 
respond to our investigators request for information. But, given that there were numerous 
other victims of the same scam and Mrs B made the payments some weeks before reporting 
what had happened, I think its very unlikely that any faster action on Monzos part would 
have meant that any of her money could have been recovered. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs B and Im sorry that shes lost out as a result of 
a cynical scam, but I cant hold Monzo responsible for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rich DruryOmbudsman