DRN-3720528
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by WPS ADVISORY Ltd (WPS) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr G is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr G.
What happened
Mr G agreed voluntary redundancy with his employer around July 2020. As part of the 
process, his employer arranged financial advice for him, in relation to the portion of the 
redundancy payment in excess of the tax free cut off. The advice was also to cover Mr Gs 
DB scheme, which hed been a member of via the employer. The advice was to be provided 
by WPS and funded by his employer.
Mr G was also sent a summary of the pension benefits he held under the DB scheme. This 
set out that, as at the date hed taken redundancy, the full pension hed be able to take was 
£15,989.34 per year. Or hed have the option of taking £75,736.79 in tax-free cash (TFC) 
and a reduced pension of £11,360.52. The summary also explained that the DB scheme 
provided a 50% spouses pension. And it said that the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of Mr Gs pension benefits was £493,130.83.
WPS wrote to Mr G on 29 July 2020, introducing itself. Mr G called WPS and said hed like 
to proceed with advice and an appointment was booked for an introductory phone call with 
an adviser, at which WPS would gather information about Mr Gs circumstances and 
objectives. In advance of that call WPS sent Mr G a fact-finding document to fill in and 
return.
The form noted that Mr G was 62, married with no dependent children. It said that he and 
Mrs G were both now retired. It was recorded that Mr G was receiving a monthly income of 
£883.72, after tax, from another pension, but that was their only income at that time, and 
their outgoings exceeded this. They had a mortgage, with a balance remaining of just over 
£8,250 which was due to be repaid within the next year. They also had some unsecured 
debt which was noted as totalling just under £3,000. And they had no savings or 
investments.
In the initial conversation with the adviser, which Ive been provided a recording of, Mr Gs 
circumstances were discussed in more detail. He and the adviser discussed that:
Mr G had been off work due to ill health prior to the redundancy and hadnt in fact 
received salary in 2020.
As a result, hed borrowed about £15,000 from his son to cover living expenses 
which he was going to have to pay back.
Mr Gs thoughts were that hed be interested in taking a drawdown pension and 
transferring. This was because, due to his health conditions, he didnt necessarily 
expect to live a long life so thought it might be better for his wife to benefit from the 
whole value of the fund.
Mr G was interested in clearing all of his outstanding debts of approximately £26,400, 
including the borrowing from his son.
They expected to need an income of just over £17,000 per year in retirement to meet 
their needs as they stood at the time, some of which Mr Gs other pension was 
already meeting.
The adviser said he didnt have a problem with the drawdown approach because of 
the flexibility and death benefits this would provide Mr G, but he had to be aware 
there would be risks involved.
Mr G had no previous investment experience and acknowledged that WPS was the 
expert.
Following the call, WPS sent Mr G a questionnaire to complete to help establish his attitude 
to risk. After this was returned it deemed him to have a moderate attitude to risk.
On 27 October 2020, WPS sent Mr G a written summary of its advice. It recommended that 
he transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension with a specific provider and take the 
maximum amount of TFC on transfer. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that Mr G was looking to retire comfortably and meet his expenditure 
without having to rely on working any further, he wanted to be able to clear his mortgage and 
other debts, he wanted the option of taking benefits on a flexible basis and he wanted 
alternative death benefits. The suitability report said WPS role is to help you achieve the 
retirement objectives you have told me you would like to achieve. And it felt a transfer 
allowed him to do this. Following the transfer, WPS would provide ongoing servicing, at a 
cost.
Mr G complained in September 2021 to WPS. He said he didnt think the transfer advice was 
suitable as he was always unlikely to match the benefits that he was giving up and he had 
alternative ways of meeting his objectives. He also noted that the majority of the TFC hed 
taken out of his pension remained untouched in a bank account  which showed it wasnt 
needed.
WPS didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said the advice had been based on Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives, and based on this WPS still considered that the advice was 
suitable. It also said that all relevant alternatives had been discussed and discounted and 
the risks made clear to Mr G. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said 
WPS should compensate Mr G for any loss the transfer had led. She thought Mr G wasnt 
likely to improve his pension benefits by transferring and felt his goals of clearing debts and 
achieving a sustainable and comfortable income couldve been met by taking benefits 
immediately under the DB scheme. On the subject of death benefits, she thought the 
existing benefits had been underplayed and in any event she didnt think transferring to 
achieve alternative death benefits was suitable, particularly as, although Mr G had health 
conditions, him not living to or beyond his average life expectancy was only a possibility.
WPS disagreed. In summary it said, via a representative, that it felt the advice given was in 
line with the regulatory requirements, that Mr Gs objectives were not unreasonable and that 
the advice was entirely appropriate based on his circumstances and having regard for what 
he wanted to achieve. It also said improving on the pension benefits offered by the DB 
scheme wasnt an objective or a reason for transferring. And it said it believed that Mr G was 
in fact unlikely to be worse off as a result of the transfer, based on current market conditions.
Mr Gs representatives largely accepted the Investigators findings. But they said they didnt 
think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to account for income tax was fair as this didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr G may incur.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided detailed arguments in this case, and Id like to reassure both parties that 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I dont comment on or refer to 
everything Ive been sent or that either party have said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or 
because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is because my decision will address what I 
consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of WPS' actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, WPS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs 
best interests. 
WPS says it believes it has complied with the requirements of it and that the advice was 
correct and suitable. But for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont agree that it was in 
Mr Gs best interests.
Financial viability 
WPS obtained a transfer value comparator (as required by the regulator). This estimated 
that the cost of obtaining a comparable income, to that the DB scheme provided at the 
scheme normal retirement age, was £619,175. So, this was £126,044 more than the CETV of the DB benefits. And so, in order to just obtain the same benefits as Mr G was already 
guaranteed under the DB scheme, his fund would effectively need to grow by that amount.
Mr G was 62 at the time of the advice so only had two full years to his normal retirement 
age. So normally, the growth Ive referred to would need to happen in that period. Based on 
this and his moderate attitude to risk, I think achieving this level of growth was unrealistic  
particularly when considering the regulators standard projection rates, that have remained 
unchanged since 2014, the upper projection rate being 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2%.  
But I understand that Mr Gs DB scheme here actually allowed for immediate retirement 
without him incurring an actuarial reduction. So, he could take the full benefits hed accrued 
to that point, which hed normally have been due at age 65, at age 62 instead. The scheme 
information refers to this being an option for active members taking retirement. And the 
suitability report WPS provided said hed be considered an active member at that point. So, 
the growth required would not be obtainable. 
WPS has said that improving on the benefits the DB scheme offered was not an objective of 
Mr Gs and was not a reason for its recommendation. But again, WPS needed to 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. And a pension is primarily for the 
purposes of providing for the pension holders income needs in retirement. So, how the level 
of income differed following a transfer is still, in my view, an important consideration as to 
whether a transfer was in their best interests. There would be little point in Mr G giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I think he was always likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with that attitude to risk. So, from a financial viability point of view, I dont 
think a transfer was in his best interests.
The suitability report does reflect this, as it says WPS would not advise Mr G to transfer if he 
were just looking to replicate the benefits he already had. But it says he had other objectives 
which WPS thought made a transfer suitable. And financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
WPS says Mr G wanted the option of taking further withdrawals on a flexible basis. It says 
he was also looking to retire comfortably and be able to cover his expenditure without being 
reliant on having to work again. And it noted he and Mrs G expected to need an income of 
just over £17,000 per annum in retirement. It also says Mr G wanted to clear his outstanding 
debts at the time of the transfer. And it has said he also wanted to have an emergency fund 
in place.
The suitability report said that WPS role was to help Mr G achieve the retirement objectives 
he had said he wanted. But I dont entirely agree. WPS did have to think about Mr Gs 
objectives. But WPS wasnt there just to put in place what Mr G mightve thought he wanted. 
It needed to recommend what was in his best interests, even if that went against what Mr G 
thought he might like. 
The debts Mr G was hoping to clear totalled just under £26,500. Mr G was due to receive 
£30,000 tax free as part of his redundancy settlement, with additional funds deferred. So, his 
debts couldve been cleared without needing to take any money from his pension. The 
suitability report said Mr G could take his DB scheme pension immediately without an 
actuarial reduction and receive £15,989.34 per year. This, when combined with the pension he was already in receipt of, paying roughly £10,600 per year, which I understand was also 
from another DB scheme, wouldve exceeded his income requirements.  And this is before 
even accounting for the deferred part of Mr Gs redundancy payment, his and Mrs Gs state 
pension entitlement which wouldve become payable a couple of years later and the fact that 
the DB scheme pension would continue to escalate in retirement. So, Mr G couldve retired 
comfortably and repaid his debts without leaving the DB scheme.
WPS says Mr G also wanted an emergency fund in addition to clearing his debts. But this 
too couldve been achieved through the DB scheme. The suitability report said that Mr G 
could also opt to retire immediately under the DB scheme and take £75,736.79 in TFC and a 
reduced starting pension of £11,360.52. The TFC plus the redundancy settlement wouldve 
cleared Mr Gs debts and left him with a sizeable emergency fund. And the reduced starting 
pension from the DB scheme, combined with the other pension he was in receipt of, 
wouldve still comfortably exceeded his income goal, allowing him to retire comfortably. And 
again, that is before even accounting for the deferment, Mr and Mrs Gs state pension 
entitlement and the DB scheme pensions escalating while in payment.
It is true that transferring provided access to even more TFC. But I cant see that Mr G had 
any need or specific objective that meant he required that additional amount. 
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied Mr G couldve met his income requirements, 
without having to rely on an income from work, cleared his debts and created an emergency 
fund without transferring and exposing his pension fund to risk.
It is true that Mr Gs other DB scheme pension, when combined with his and Mrs Gs state 
pension entitlement appear to have been enough to have met their income needs, from the 
point they started drawing state pension, without this pension. And WPS says Mr G wanted 
flexibility  and it said his plans were not unreasonable. But again, WPS wasnt there to just 
put in place what Mr G mightve thought he wanted. It needed to advise him about what was 
in his best interests. And I cant see that he needed flexibility. Flexibility mightve sounded 
appealing to him, but that doesnt mean it was in his interests to give up a guaranteed 
pension to achieve this, particularly when he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value as a result of transferring.
WPS says it had regard for these alternatives and discussed them with Mr G, but he was 
interested in transferring. And as it believed his objectives were reasonable it felt a transfer 
was suitable. Ive heard a recording of the initial information gathering call between the 
adviser and Mr G. Mr G said early on in this call, he was drawn towards the idea of 
transferring. The adviser did discuss that there were potentially alternative ways of meeting 
Mr Gs objectives. But effectively it said it was Mr Gs choice without giving him advice. And 
towards the latter part of the call, the conversation shifted to being on the understanding that 
a transfer was the course of action that would be pursued, as Mr G preferred this.
While I wouldnt necessarily have expected advice to be provided in this initial call, the 
overall message being that it was Mr Gs choice and later that a transfer would be pursued 
because he preferred this isnt, in my view, in line with the requirement to begin by assuming 
that the transfer would not be suitable.
The information Ive been provided indicates there was no further conversation between the 
adviser and Mr G. There were a number of calls where Mr G contacted the business upset 
that he could not get hold of the adviser. After the suitability report was issued, a different 
member of staff from WPS called Mr G to make sure hed received the report. But Ive seen 
no evidence of a call where the advice was delivered. 
The suitability report, while talking about the risks involved, recommended the transfer. And this again seems to have been on the basis that this is what Mr G had indicated he was 
interested in. But that doesnt mean that transferring was in his best interests. And for the 
reason Ive explained, I dont think he needed flexibility. And so, transferring to achieve this, 
wasnt, in my view, in Mr Gs best interests.
Death benefits
WPS says Mr G was drawn to the alternative death benefits provided by a personal pension 
as he was keen to ensure that Mrs G was provided for and he had concerns about his health 
and life expectancy. And this is reflected in the information Ive been provided. The lump 
sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to 
Mr G. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G appears 
to have thought it was potentially a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr G about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. Again, a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement 
to the pension holder. 
If Mr G had begun drawing benefits from the DB scheme but then passed away, the DB 
scheme wouldve provided Mrs G with a 50% spouses pension. The scheme information 
indicates this was 50% of the full pension he couldve taken, £15,989.34, regardless of if he 
opted to take TFC or not. So, if Mr G had passed away shortly after taking his DB scheme, it 
wouldve provided Mrs G a starting pension of just under £8,000. But in addition, if Mr G 
passed away within the first five years of taking his DB scheme benefits, the scheme would 
also pay a lump sum equivalent to the remaining amount that Mr G wouldve been due within 
those five years. So, effectively, the full amount Mr G wouldve received for the first five 
years would be honoured and paid to Mrs G, with the spouses pension continuing after that. 
In the call between Mr G and the adviser, Mr G said his other pension that was already in 
payment would also pay a 50% spouses pension. And Mrs G was due to receive her state 
pension around a year after the advice. The combination of these benefits wouldve meant 
that Mrs G received an income in retirement in excess of the £17,000 that she and Mr G 
expected to need. And these were guaranteed and escalated  they were not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.  
So, Mr G couldve ensured that Mrs G was provided for by remaining in the DB scheme.
Mr G did say he had children, although not financially dependent on him. So, the prospect of 
providing something for them, in the form of a lump sum from this pension to his estate, 
might also have appealed to him. And the CETV would no doubt have been attractive as a 
potential lump sum. But the sum that wouldve been available would not have only been 
dependent on investment performance but wouldve been diminished by any income that 
Mr G had drawn in his lifetime. 
I acknowledge that Mr G told WPS he had health conditions and had concerns about his life 
expectancy. But Mr G not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility. It was also 
possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr G wouldve needed his pension to last 
longer and the sum remaining on death was likely to have been significantly different to the 
CETV. 
In any event though, I dont think prioritising the potential death benefits of a personal 
pension over his security in retirement was in Mr Gs interests. Again, WPS seems to have 
advised him on the basis that Mr G thought this was a good idea. But his aim to provide for 
Mrs G couldve been met through the existing scheme. And overall, I dont think different 
death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits 
for Mr G. Control 
It was noted that having control of his pension appealed to Mr G, which he wouldve 
achieved by transferring away from the DB scheme. But Mr G was not an experienced 
investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. Indeed, WPS noted as much in the suitability report and that 
hed be reliant on ongoing advice.  
I dont doubt, having just been made redundant by his former employer, that the thought of a 
clean break appealed to Mr G. But given he was always likely to receive benefits of an 
overall lower value, while taking on the risk that was otherwise borne by the DB scheme, I 
dont think it was in his best interests to transfer for this reason.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding this complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr G, it follows that I dont need to consider the investment recommendation. 
This is because Mr G should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments via the personal pension wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension sounded like attractive features to Mr G. But again, WPS wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted. And I think that is to a large 
extent what it did here. When its role instead was to recommend what was in Mr Gs best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr G was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this, particularly as his objectives could largely be met through 
his DB scheme. 
So, I think WPS shouldve advised Mr G to remain in his DB scheme and draw benefits 
immediately, to benefit from an actuarial reduction not being applied. As the reduced 
pension hed have received if taking TFC wouldve been enough, in conjunction with his 
other provisions, to meet his income needs, wouldnt have impacted the spouses pension 
and would still have escalated while in payment, on balance I think its likely Mr G wouldve 
opted to take the available TFC from the scheme. As this wouldve provided him with an 
emergency fund.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've looked to transfer anyway, against 
WPS advice. 
Ive considered this carefully. Im conscious that Mr G made a number of calls to WPS as he 
was concerned with how long the process was taking. And he reiterated in emails to WPS 
that he was minded to proceed with the transfer, for the reasons hed discussed with WPS in 
the initial call with the adviser. But I think this was as a result of WPS indicating in the initial 
call that it was a matter of Mr Gs choice and that the adviser didnt have an issue with this 
course of action. 
I think its clear from his initial contact with WPS that he was looking for advice. And in the 
call with the adviser, he even stated that WPS was the expert. So, Im not persuaded that 
Mr G wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against WPS advice. Mr G was an inexperienced investor. And although he suggested he had a moderate attitude to 
risk, he was about to take his retirement benefits, and this pension made up a significant part 
of those. So, if WPS had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining that he could meet his objectives without incurring any risk and why 
transferring wasnt in his best interests, I think that wouldve carried significant weight and 
that Mr G wouldve accepted that advice. So, I dont think Mr G would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think WPS should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I've thought about Mr G's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr G would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr G 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view 
that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr G for the impact of the unsuitable advice he 
received.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for WPS unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. WPS believes that 
Mr G might not have incurred a loss. But I still consider that the advice was unsuitable and 
that the relevant calculation should be carried out to determine this.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. So, WPS must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, although I understand Mr G took some part time work around the time of the 
advice, he had effectively retired at that point, aged 62. And I think, not least because by 
taking benefits under the DB scheme at that point, according to the suitability report, hed 
have qualified to receive his pension benefits without an actuarial reduction, hed have 
elected to draw benefits from the DB scheme at age 62. And in all likelihood, I think hed 
have also chosen to take the maximum available TFC at that stage. So, this should be the 
basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
WPS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
A copy of the redress calculation should be shared with Mr G and his adviser. If the redress 
calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid into Mr Gs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date WPS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes WPS to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect WPS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require WPS ADVISORY Ltd 
to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£355,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I would additionally require 
WPS ADVISORY Ltd to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £355,000, I would only require 
WPS ADVISORY Ltd to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £355,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I also recommend that 
WPS ADVISORY Ltd pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on WPS ADVISORY Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman