DRN-3189140
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded the money he lost to a scam.
Mr B is represented by his brother in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr B himself.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, Mr B has explained that in July 2020, someone knocked on his door 
offering to clean his guttering, which Mr B agreed to. Sadly, unknown to Mr B at that time, 
this individual was actually a fraudster. 
As the fraudster claimed to be working for a roofing company, Mr B also asked for a small 
leak in his kitchen roof to be investigated. The fraudster recommended Mr B have his kitchen 
and utility room roof replaced. Following discussions with the fraudster, on the fraudsters 
recommendation, Mr B also agreed to have his loft boarded and his bathroom refitted. He 
was quoted £65,000 for the work.
Mr B paid for the work by cash withdrawals, as well as bank transfers. However, as he made 
payments, the scope of the work escalated. Mr B has explained that walls and ceilings were 
removed unnecessarily, he was told on a number of occasions that areas of his home were 
at risk of collapse if he didnt act quickly to remedy different issues, he was left for long 
periods with no washing facilities and told there were rat infestations. He was also told 
different pieces of machinery and building supplies were required, which Mr B paid for, but 
they never materialised. In total, Mr B paid £277,500 to the fraudsters across the following 
payments:
date method of payment value
10/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £20,000
14/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £20,000
14/07/2020 bank transfer £25,000
15/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £20,000
15/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £10,000
15/07/2020 bank transfer £25,000
16/07/2020 bank transfer £23,000
23/07/2020 bank transfer £25,000
27/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £10,000
27/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £10,000
27/07/2020 bank transfer £24,500
30/07/2020 bank transfer £25,000
30/07/2020 branch cash withdrawal £40,000
Mr B has explained he utilised savings, an ISA and took a mortgage out on his home to keep 
up with the payment demands. In desperation, after making these payments he called his 
brother for support. Mr Bs brother requested the builders suspend work until a detailed 
breakdown of costs could be provided. The builders didnt return after this point and Mr B 
realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr B contacted Trading Standards who confirmed the company name given to Mr B by the 
fraudsters was not for a registered company and not linked to the address Mr B was given, 
that several Trading Standards departments were investigating this same company and that 
the Police were treating the matter as fraud. Mr B subsequently had the damage corrected 
and the work completed for £12,000 by a reputable builder.
Mr B has said he was pressured by the builders into getting money up front, being told it was 
needed critically for remedial work that day and even at times being driven to the bank by 
the fraudsters to collect the money. He said that he was working from home while his house 
was a building site and felt isolated by the Covid 19 pandemic.
Lloyds investigated Mr Bs fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Mr B with a 
refund. Lloyds said on 15 July 2020, it discussed the large cash withdrawals Mr B was 
making and Mr B said he was having extensive building work done. It says it discussed 
common scam scenarios and the risk of paying by cash. Lloyds said Mr B told it he was 
receiving a discount for paying by cash and was happy to proceed with the work. 
Lloyds considered that as the builders had started the work, this would be considered a civil 
dispute and not a scam, so didnt consider it was liable to provide a refund. Lloyds later 
offered Mr B £50 for the delays in responding to him.
Mr B disagreed with Lloyds outcome so brought the complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered the complaint and disagreed that this was a civil dispute. She considered Trading 
Standards review of the company, the police fraud investigation and actions of the fraudster 
were indicative that the fraudsters intended from the outset to defraud Mr B, rather than 
provide a service. 
The investigator therefore considered the complaint under the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which Lloyds is a signatory of. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of APP scams like this, 
where payments are made to the fraudster by bank transfer, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. The investigator initially recommended informally that Lloyds fully refund Mr 
B, but having reviewed Lloyds response, determined both Lloyds and Mr B should split 
liability equally. 
The investigator thought that Lloyds didnt do enough to assure itself that Mr B wasnt at risk 
of financial harm, based on the out of character transactions he was making. However she 
also thought Mr B didnt complete enough checks to assure himself that he was paying a 
legitimate company. The investigator also awarded £300 in compensation for the additional 
stress and delays caused by Lloyds not treating the claim as a scam.
Mr B considered 50:50 liability wasnt a fair outcome and that Lloyds should be held more 
responsible than him. Lloyds didnt respond to the investigators view, so the complaint has 
been referred to me to reach a final decision. Since the complaint has been referred to me, Lloyds has agreed to treat the complaint as a 
scam, but considers Mr B should be held liable for his losses. To summarise, Lloyds has 
said:
Mr B received no written contract for the work being completed
The bank transfers he made went to an account that appears to be linked to a 
motoring business, which shouldve caused Mr B to stop and question this further.
Mr Bs brother appears to have connections to the building trade. Lloyds questions 
why Mr B didnt contact him, Trading Standards, or Action Fraud sooner.
Lloyds advised Mr B of common scams and the risks of using cash, but Mr B chose 
not to tell the bank what was happening.
The circumstances presented by Mr B appear inconsistent and unusual. Mr B was 
sadly scammed a second time following the events mentioned above and Lloyds 
considers that the amount Mr B has paid out is implausible for the work agreed to. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised it.
In this case, Mr B made some payments via online banking transfers, which are covered by 
the CRM Code that Lloyds is a signatory of. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances and it is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to 
meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.While the cash withdrawals Mr B made arent covered by the CRM Code, I consider Lloyds 
should still fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
As different considerations apply to the bank transfers and cash withdrawals Mr B made, Ill 
consider Mr B and Lloyds liability for each payment method separately.
Bank transfer payments
I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mr B under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement 
under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for believing the payments he made were genuine?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Lloyds has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr B was making are enough to support its position that he 
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he made. I 
dont think Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mr B has explained the fraudster in question got in contact with him by doorstep knocking - 
so Mr B hadnt requested his services. The initial quote was £65,000 which seems an 
excessive amount for the work Mr B had agreed to. This is supported by the remedial work 
being completed by a legitimate builder for £12,000. The first bank transfer Mr B made was 
for £25,000 and by this time hed already provided £40,000 in cash in the previous five days. 
This means the full agreed price had been paid, despite the works not having been 
completed. The account details provided by the fraudster were also for a motor company. Mr 
B says he was told the account belonged to a family member, but wasnt given a reason for 
the fraudster not using his own account.
Mr B has acknowledged he didnt complete any checks on the company before agreeing for 
works to be completed, or conduct any research on whether the price was realistic. With all 
of these points in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr B 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the builder he had contact with and that, 
in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Bs part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the builder was offering 
a genuine service and so fell below the level of care expected of him under the CRM Code.
Did Lloyds provide an effective warning to Mr B?The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence to be considered on whether it provided an effective 
warning to Mr B when he was making payments online. Its for Lloyds to demonstrate that it 
met the provisions of the Code and did enough to protect Mr B from financial harm. In the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think Lloyds has evidenced this.  
Lloyds did provide some form of warning to Mr B when he attended a branch on 15 July 
2020, but as these were relating to the cash withdrawals and not covered by the Code, Im 
not considering whether these warnings were effective. The context of the conversation in 
branch is also important here  by the time Mr B spoke to the advisor, hed already 
completed prior bank transfers and cash withdrawals, seemingly without any warning or 
intervention.  
Even when Lloyds were made aware that Mr B was having building work done, I dont think 
this negates the requirement for Lloyds to provide an effective warning, as Lloyds wouldve 
been aware of the prevalence of rogue trader scams and so there was still an identifiable 
risk here.
For the reasons Ive explained, I think both Lloyds and Mr B share some responsibility for the 
losses Mr B incurred when making the bank transfers and I therefore think they should share 
liability 50:50. Ill now consider the cash withdrawals Mr B made in branch.
Cash withdrawals
As explained above, Ive thought about whether Lloyds shouldve identified the cash 
withdrawals Mr B made as out of character or unusual. 
Lloyds has said it spoke to Mr B about his cash withdrawals on 15 July 2020, although I think 
Lloyds shouldve questioned Mr B from the first cash withdrawal he made. I say this because 
the withdrawal was unusual for Mr Bs account, being the largest in the previous 12 months.
Lloyds notes suggest Mr B advised he was having extensive building work done which he 
was paying for in cash. The notes also state Mr B was provided with information on common 
scam scenarios and warned against the risks of using cash. From the information provided I 
dont think Lloyds went far enough to protect Mr B here from financial harm, particularly 
considering that by the time Lloyds did intervene, Mr B had already spent £65,000 in just a 
few days. Similarly, by the time Lloyds next intervened, Mr B had made payments totalling 
£143,000, requiring a re-mortgage of his home, in a timeframe of just over two weeks
While Mr B had said the money was for building work, rogue trader scams are prevalent and 
well known to banks. Had Lloyds had a meaningful conversation with Mr B, I think the 
circumstances surrounding Mr Bs building work wouldve alerted Lloyds that he may be at 
risk and had the common features of such scams been highlighted to Mr B, I think he 
wouldve looked further into this before making payments and ultimately, wouldnt have gone 
ahead.
Lloyds has said Mr B chose not to tell it what was happening, but I disagree with this. I also 
disagree that there have been inconsistencies in Mr Bs testimony and have been fully 
persuaded by the legitimacy of his testimony throughout his correspondence. He told Lloyds he was having building work done and that hed been asked to pay in cash. I see no reason 
why, had Lloyds asked additional questions, Mr B wouldnt have been honest. 
I appreciate Lloyds comments that Mr B fell for a similar scam some months after this one  
but arguably had Lloyds acted sooner from the outset, before Mr B was under the pressured 
spell of the fraudsters, the outcome of conversations could have been very different. 
Ive also thought about whether, in all the circumstances of the case, Mr B should bear some 
responsibility for the losses incurred from his cash withdrawals. For similar reasons as Ive 
mentioned above, I think he should. As Ive explained, I think Mr B should also have 
completed more research into the company he was paying and the works he was having 
completed before proceeding with payments. I therefore think again that a 50:50 liability is a 
fair outcome in the circumstances.
Redress
Im satisfied that Lloyds should refund Mr B 50% of the money he sent to the fraudster, 
totalling £138,750.
I also think the £300 recommended by the investigator is fair compensation to acknowledge 
the delays caused to Mr Bs complaint. I think there was strong evidence from Trading 
Standards and the Police from the outset that this wasnt a civil dispute. Rogue trader scams 
are well known to banks and its a common hallmark of fraudsters to start some work to draw 
victims into making additional payments. I therefore dont think Lloyds shouldve decided the 
matter was a civil dispute on this basis alone and I think that decision caused further, 
unnecessary distress to Mr B.
I understand that Mr B used funds from several sources to make payments to the fraudster, 
including his current and savings accounts, ISAs and a home re-mortgage. So, in this case, I 
think Lloyds should pay interest on the money Mr B lost at a rate of 8% for loss of use of 
money as a pragmatic solution in the particular circumstances of this case. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC. I required Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr B 50% of the money he lost to the scam, totalling £138,750
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date the payments were made to the date of 
settlement
Pay £300 to Mr B in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman