DRN-3723488
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under his home emergency policy, 
saying his shower wasnt covered under the policy.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
This decision covers a complaint raised by Mr S with this service in August 2022, relating to 
a decision by Aviva to decline a claim for a replacement shower. Mr S had previously raised 
a complaint to this service following a complaint he made to Aviva in August 2021 following 
an earlier decision by Aviva to decline his claim. Following Mr Ss earlier complaint to this 
service, Aviva reassessed their decision and said a replacement shower was covered under 
the policy. However, in August 2022 Aviva became aware of the specific type of shower of 
Mr S, and they reassessed their decision and told Mr S the policy didnt cover that type of 
shower and so they wouldnt replace it.
What happened
The events in this case are well known to both Mr S and to Aviva, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
 
Mr S had a home emergency policy with Aviva covering plumbing and electrics, including 
faults on an electric shower unit. In 2021, an intermittent problem arose with his shower and 
he contacted Aviva. However, they declined to replace the shower as they said it was of a 
type not covered by the policy. Mr S complained to Aviva, who confirmed their decision to 
decline his claim. Mr S then complained to this service. Following this complaint to this 
service, Aviva reassessed their decision and said a replacement shower was covered under 
the policy. Mr S then withdrew his complaint to this service.
 
Aviva offered to send an engineer to Mr Ss property to replace the shower, but Mr S said 
hed prefer to wait until hed changed his boiler. This took some time, but Mr S gave Aviva 
details of the make and model of shower in August 2022. Having details of the shower, Aviva 
reassessed their decision and told Mr S the policy didnt cover that type of shower (a 
mixer/digital shower) and so they wouldnt replace it.
Mr S was unhappy at Avivas decision and complained. Aviva upheld the complaint. In their 
final response, they apologised for giving Mr S incorrect information that his policy would 
cover a replacement shower, as further investigation led to the conclusion his model of 
shower wasnt covered (as mixer and digital showers werent covered). The policy only 
covered electric wall-mounted self-contained shower units. Aviva acknowledged they initially 
said the shower wasnt covered, but then agreed to reconsider if Mr S withdrew his first 
complaint to this service. Aviva then [incorrectly] advised Mr S his shower was covered, 
before concluding it wasnt. In acknowledgement of the loss of expectation, Aviva offered Mr 
S £200 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Unhappy at Avivas final response, Mr S made a second complaint to this service. The main 
point of his complaint was that hed been told his shower was covered under the policy, but 
theyd then said that it wasnt. He felt deceived by Aviva and it was stressful having to use 
the shower but not knowing whether it would work. He wanted Aviva to pay for the cost of a 
new shower and to compensate him for the stress the episode had caused him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva had acted fairly in 
declining Mr Ss claim in line with the policy terms and conditions, as Mr S had a 
digital mixer shower that was excluded from cover under the policy. This exclusion 
was made clear to Mr S when he took out the policy. While there had been confusion 
over whether his shower was covered, the investigator thought that Avivas offer of 
£200 compensation was fair.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He said hed been told by Aviva his shower would be replaced 
and he wanted them to honour what theyd said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is whether his shower is covered under his policy. Mr S is 
unhappy that  having initially been told it wasnt  he was then told by Aviva that it was, only 
for them to change their decision and say that it wasnt. Mr S thinks Aviva should cover his 
shower. Aviva say Mr Ss shower isnt covered, as the policy doesnt cover digital and mixer 
showers (the policy only covers electric wall-mounted self-contained shower units).
The issue is therefore, firstly, what type of shower Mr S has. And, secondly, whether that 
type of shower is covered under the policy or not.
On the first issue, from the evidence and information Ive seen, Mr S gave Aviva the precise 
make and model of his shower in August 2022. I can see Aviva considered the details of the 
shower, including the shower instructions, and their technical team concluded it would fall 
under the category of a digital or mixer shower. As Mr S provided the details of the shower 
and Aviva assessed it from a technical perspective, Im persuaded that it is a digital and/or 
mixer shower.
On the second point, Ive looked at the policy document. The summary part of the policy 
document includes a summary section headed Heres a quick reminder of what your policy 
covers which states:
 Faults on the electric shower unit
There follows a section headed Whats not covered which includes the following:
X Mixer and digital showers
A more detailed wording appears later in the policy document, where the Examples of 
claims covered lists Electrical failure of a wall-mounted self contained electric shower unit. 
Under a more detailed Whats not covered section the following exclusions are listed:
j) Mixer showers (inc thermostatic), shower pumps, digital showers and separate 
shower controlsm) Any parts of the electric shower not contained in the wall mounted unit itself, e.g. 
shower trays, heads, hoses, riser rails, mixer valves and the water supply to a 
shower
Looking at these terms and conditions, I think they make it clear that digital and mixer 
showers arent covered by the policy. So, Ive concluded Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in 
line with the policy terms and conditions in declining to replace Mr Ss shower.
While Ive come to this conclusion, I have considered the sequence of events in this case, 
given Mr Ss concerns about being told Aviva would cover replacement of the shower, only 
to change their decision. I can understand why he feels Aviva should honour their previous 
decision that they would replace his shower. However, from what Ive seen in Avivas case 
notes, it suggests they either thought the shower was electric (which would be covered) or 
they werent aware of the specific type (make and model) of shower. In the circumstances, I 
think its understandable why they thought replacement would be covered. When Mr S did 
tell them the specific make and model (in August 2022) they were able to assess the specific 
model against the policy terms and conditions and  as Ive concluded  act reasonably in 
declining to replace the shower as its type is clearly and specifically excluded from cover 
under the policy terms and conditions.
However, I agree that Mr S has suffered from a loss of expectation [that his shower would be 
replaced]. There has been a delay from the date of the issue first arising (and the original, 
withdrawn complaint to this service) but from what Ive seen that was due to Mr S wanting to 
replace his boiler first, before considering the replacement of his shower. And it was only 
when he provided details of his shower, Aviva could then consider whether it was covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I dont think Aviva can be held responsible 
for the delay. Taking all the circumstances of the case into account, I think Avivas offer of 
£200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman