DRN-2514291
The complaint
Miss W complains about information Hastings Insurance Services Limited gave her when 
she contacted them about making a claim against her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W arranged her car insurance through Hastings. So when her car was hit by another 
driver, Miss W called the phone number Hastings had given her for making a claim. After 
taking details about the incident, Hastings asked if Miss W was happy to take the claim 
forward with a company they referred to as approved repairers. Miss W said that was okay. 
That choice meant the repairs Miss Ws car needed werent paid for by the underwriter of her 
car insurance policy. Instead, the repairers did the work on credit, and then got the insurer of 
the driver that hit Miss Ws car to pay for it.
Miss W came to better understand this difference when she had a complaint about the work 
the repairers had done. Hastings said that complaint was for the repairers to deal with, as 
the work hadnt been done under Miss Ws insurance policy. Unhappy with this response, 
Miss W came to us. 
Our investigator has looked at whether Hastings explained the choice to Miss W in enough 
detail before she made it. He listened to Miss Ws call with Hastings, and found they hadnt. 
He said Hastings should pay Miss W compensation to acknowledge the upset theyd added 
to the situation.
A separate part of our service will look at the complaint about the work done by the 
repairers. Thats because the work appears to have been done by  or on behalf of  a 
claims management company. They follow different rules and regulations to financial service 
providers. Its not clear to me whether the service Miss W was given by the repairer was 
regulated in a way that we can help with. But the separate part of our service that currently 
has that complaint will be able to decide that better than me. 
My decision today is being made because our investigator hasnt been able to informally 
resolve the complaint about Hastings. They disagreed with his findings, feeling the call with 
Miss W had done enough to make clear to her that the claim wasnt going ahead under the 
car insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by thinking about whether this should really be a complaint about the 
underwriters of Miss Ws car insurance policy. Usually, a complaint that relates to making a 
claim against a policy sits against the policy underwriter, even if the claim is actually handled 
by another company acting as agents for the underwriter. 
The terms Hastings have shown us for Miss Ws policy show they  not the policy 
underwriter  could arrange additional extras for her. Making a claim outside of the car 
insurance policys terms seems to me like it would be such an extra. So I dont view Hastings 
as acting for the underwriter in this case. 
Ive then listened to Hastings call with Miss W. As someone who understands the accident 
management and insurance claim processes, I can hear some explanation in what Hastings 
has said. They mentioned about no policy excess being payable. They mentioned credit 
repair. And they even at one point said the repairs wouldnt be done under the terms of 
Miss Ws policy.
But I can understand why Miss W  who doesnt have a background in these things  was 
later surprised that Hastings wouldnt help when she had a problem with the repair work. Key 
here is that Hastings referred to the repair company as approved repairers. That made the 
choice they gave her sound like a choice between using the insurers approved repairer to 
do work as part of an insurance claim, rather than using a repairer Miss W chose for herself. 
I find Hastings needed to do more here to make it clear to Miss W what she was being asked 
to choose between. They should have explained it was more than a choice of who would do 
the repair work  it was also about how that work would be overseen and paid for. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about how this situation would have been different, if Miss W had been given the 
details she needed in order to make a fully informed choice. 
Hastings have confirmed that if the claim had gone ahead under Miss Ws car insurance, 
they would have used the same repair company to decide what repairs were needed. So I 
think its likely the quality of the work done wouldnt have changed that much, even if the 
claim was made under the policy. If the quality was the same, so too were the chances 
Miss W would complain about it. 
A better explanation from Hastings would have made it clear Miss W would have to pay her 
£495 policy excess if making a claim under her insurance policy. As I understand it, she 
didnt have to do this going through the repairers. 
Given the choice of sending her car to the same repairers with or without paying an excess, I 
find it more likely Miss W would have preferred not to pay it. Choosing to make the claim 
through the repairers rather than under the car insurance policy achieved that. 
So I conclude there wouldnt have been a major difference in the choice Miss W made, or 
the chances that shed later complain about the repairs. But she would have better 
understood what was happening. That in turn would have made it less surprising and 
upsetting when she found she couldnt complain to Hastings or her insurance underwriter. 
I cant go back and undo that upset and unwelcome surprise. But compensation from 
Hastings would acknowledge their role in causing it. Putting a figure on such compensation 
is a matter of opinion. But I find the figure our investigator put forward - £150  does enough 
to balance the impact of Hastings failing here. 
It reflects the experience Miss Ws described during our investigation. And it stops short of 
trying to compensate for Miss W feeling she needed to complain about the repairs, which 
Ive found it was likely shed have done even if Hastings service had been better.
My final decisionWith the above in mind, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint about Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited. To put things right, they should pay her £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman