DRN-3584743
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited failed to carry out appropriate due 
diligence on an investment she intended to make before accepting it into her self-invested 
pension plan (SIPP).
What happened
In September 2008 Mrs K was advised by an independent financial adviser (Firm A) to 
open a SIPP with Suffolk Life and switch two personal pensions into it. A total of £32,829.47 
was transferred to the SIPP and Firm A advised Mrs K to invest £22,520 into the Centurion 
Argent DMS Enhanced SP Fund (Centurion fund). 
The Centurion fund was a traded life policy investment, where the fund invested in the life 
assurance policies of pensioners within the United States. The fund purchased the policies; 
it paid the policy premiums and returns were generated by collecting the policy proceeds 
when the policyholder died.
The remaining funds were invested in various funds by a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM).
In addition to the two personal pensions that were transferred to the SIPP, Mrs K had a 
pension arranged with her employer. She also had a PEP and ISA portfolio managed by the 
same DFM who was managing the funds in the SIPP that were not invested in the Centurion 
Fund. Mrs K also owned a second property that provided a rental income.
The financial adviser Mrs K had previously dealt with at Firm A moved to another 
independent advisory firm (Firm B) in 2010. But the servicing of Mrs Ks SIPP moved with 
the adviser to Firm B.
In 2011 the Centurion fund started to experience liquidity problems and suspended 
redemptions from the fund. And in Mrs Ks October 2012 annual SIPP statement, it showed 
her investment in the Centurion fund was valued at £22,332.08, having been valued at 
£26,402.76 in her October 2011 statement.
Between 2012 and 2015 Mrs Ks adviser received further updates from Centurion about the 
fund. The updates warned investors that the fund had a net asset value of zero and they 
would most likely not get the full amount they invested returned to them.
In December 2018 Mrs K made a complaint to our Service through a representative. Mrs Ks 
representative complained about the various parties involved, including Firm A and Firm B. It 
said the advice to invest in the Centurion fund was not suitable for Mrs K, who was an 
inexperienced investor. And it said Suffolk Life should not have allowed this plainly 
unsuitable investment to be held in Mrs Ks SIPP. Mrs Ks representative added that Mrs K 
had been charged extortionate fees and had no way of closing the SIPP to avoid the 
continuing fees.
Suffolk Life didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint, saying that it is an execution-only SIPP provider 
and it accepted an instruction from Firm A, a regulated financial adviser, to open a SIPP and 
invest Mrs Ks funds in Centurion. It said there was no obligation on it to consider the 
suitability of the advice, that Mrs K understood this and confirmed shed received advice 
from Firm A. Suffolk Life added that the investment in Centurion was permitted under its 
schedule of allowable investments, and the fees were agreed at the outset and accepted by 
Mrs K. However, given the status of the investment, which was now considered to be illiquid, 
it would no longer charge annual fees. This meant the plan was effectively closed.
Mrs K asked our Service to consider her complaint but our Investigator didnt uphold it. She 
thought Suffolk Life had done what could reasonably be expected of it at the time under the 
regulators rules, guidance and what was considered to be good industry practice. She noted 
that Firm A was regulated to provide investment advice and that Suffolk Life had carried out 
appropriate due diligence on the investment, which was liquid at the time and could readily 
be exited. She didnt think the issues experienced from 2011 couldve reasonably been 
foreseen at the time of the transaction. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Suffolk 
Life to permit the investment to be held in Mrs Ks SIPP.
Mrs Ks representative didnt accept this. It said that Mrs K had complained about all of the 
parties involvement in the investment but our Service had chosen to focus only on Suffolk 
Life, even though the adviser involved was still working as a financial adviser (albeit not for 
Firm A or Firm B). It said Suffolk Life needed to fully understand the risks involved and not 
just accept the investment at face value. It added that Firm A had recommended a large 
number of consumers that it referred to Suffolk Life to invest in Centurion. And that this 
shouldve caused concern in light of the regulators guidance. The representative also said 
that just because the Centurion fund was registered overseas that didnt mean the 
investment should have been allowed.
The representative also made reference to the courts findings in Adams v Options SIPP, 
which it believed demonstrated Suffolk Life owed Mrs K a duty of care, and as such ought to 
have questioned the suitability of the advice. It noted this case involved an unregulated 
introducer but thought the principle could still be applied in the circumstances of Mrs Ks 
complaint given it involved an unregulated investment. Overall, the representative didnt feel 
that Suffolk Life had done enough to investigate the credibility of the investment.
The Investigator explained that Mrs K needed to make separate complaints about the other 
parties involved and she was only considering the role Suffolk Life had carried out here. But 
as she wasnt persuaded to change her opinion on the matter, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook, are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And I consider that Principles 2, 3 and 6 
are relevant to my consideration of this complaint. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive also considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP, which Mrs Ks 
representative has referenced in support of her complaint. In that case, Mr Adams had made 
an investment into storage pods through his SIPP. Since that decision the Court of Appeal 
has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams appeal. Ive taken 
both judgments into account when making this decision.
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles. These are:
The regulators 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports;
The regulators October 2013 Finalised SIPP Operator Guidance; and 
The regulators July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered these publications in their entirety when reaching my decision on this 
complaint. 
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether Suffolk Life complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mrs K), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Suffolk Life 
could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Mrs Ks relationship with Suffolk Life
Suffolk Life says it is an execution only SIPP administrator, which means that it only acts on 
the instruction of the investor or any third party professional who has authority to make an 
instruction on their behalf. Suffolk Life says it does not provide advice or recommend 
investments to its clients and only acted upon the instructions received from Firm A.
Mrs Ks financial adviser, Firm A, gave Mrs K advice to transfer her pensions to the SIPP 
with Suffolk Life. And I accept that Suffolk Life didnt provide any advice here, and so it didnt 
have an obligation to consider the suitability of the investment for Mrs K. However, Mrs Ks 
representative says that Suffolk Life owed Mrs K a duty of care, as established under Adams 
v Options SIPP. And that this ought to have led to Suffolk Life to question the suitability of 
the investments for Mrs K. But I dont agree that the findings of the court in Adams v Options 
SIPP can be interpreted in this way. While I think Suffolk Life had a duty to act in Mrs Ks 
best interests, and comply with the Principles, I dont think that meant it shouldve also carried out its own suitability assessment. Like in the Adams case, Suffolk Life only agreed 
to provide a non-advisory service to Mrs K and it was not authorised to give advice on the 
suitability of the investments.
So, I think Suffolk Life was required (in its role as an execution only SIPP provider) to 
consider whether it was appropriate to accept business from Firm A and to consider whether 
the investment in the Centurion fund was an appropriate investment to make within its SIPP. 
And overall, I think Suffolk Lifes duty as a SIPP operator was to treat Mrs K fairly and to act 
in her best interests. And taking account of the regulators guidance and what I consider to 
have been good practice at the time, I think it needed to carry out due diligence to at least 
ensure:
that Firm A was regulated to provide pensions and investment advice and had a clear 
disciplinary history;
that it understood how the investment would operate;
that the proposed underlying investment for the SIPP was a genuine asset and was 
not part of a fraud or a scam or pensions liberation;
that those who held significant positions of control and influence were fit and proper;
that any third-party due diligence that they used or relied on had been independently 
produced and verified.
Im mindful that the September 2009 Thematic Review report gave examples of measures 
that SIPP operators, such as Suffolk Life, could take, which included: 
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large transactions or 
more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that 
introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. 
from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was 
recommended
Mrs Ks representative says that the FCA was implying here that Suffolk Life did in fact have 
an obligation to consider the suitability of the investment before accepting it. But I dont think 
that is what this guidance was seeking to convey. I dont think it placed an obligation on the 
SIPP operator to check the suitability of every investment proposed. Instead, I think it sets 
out that the regulator expected SIPP operators to seek further information or clarification if it 
had particular concerns about the investment proposed. And I think that is in relation to the 
nature of the investment proposed rather than its suitability for the particular investor.
What checks did Suffolk Life carry out on Firm A
In its final response letter, Suffolk Life said:
With regards to our duty of care towards you as the investor, Suffolk Life only accepts 
business from introducers and advisers that are authorised, and regulated by the FCA. 
Before appointing a firm as the adviser on a Suffolk Life plan, we check the FCA register to 
ensure they are authorised. As the FCA monitors firms and individuals, making sure they 
meet their standards before being authorised, as well as setting clear expectations of ethical 
behaviour, this offers us the assurance that the investor will have received independent 
advice, suitable to their individual financial needs, and that the pension fund benefits from 
the protection that the framework of financial regulation provides. The FCA also supervises
how firms operate, and can stop those that don't meet their standards from carrying out the 
activities they regulate.And upon further questioning from the Investigator, it added that Suffolk Life did not have an 
introducer agreement with Firm A and the only remuneration it received was the pre-agreed 
sum specified in the SIPP application. It said it didnt pay Firm A any commission or other 
payments as a result of Firm A recommending its SIPP. While it wouldve been good 
practice to have had an introducer agreement in place with Firm A, I dont think the absence 
of one means Suffolk Life should not have transacted with Firm A.
Suffolk Life confirmed that at the time of the investment, Firm A was regulated and the 
specific adviser who gave the advice had authorisation to recommend and introduce new 
SIPPs and investments. It said it was reliant on the FCA informing it of changes to the 
authorisation status of financial advisers and there were no changes or notices relevant to 
Firm A between the advice being given and the servicing of the SIPP moving to Firm B. So, 
I think Suffolk Life did enough in terms of checking Firm A and the advisers permissions and 
disciplinary history.
Suffolk Life also disclosed that during the seven years that Firm A was regulated, it 
introduced 24 clients to Suffolk Life and during this same period it received thousands of 
new SIPP applications. It also explained that eight of those 24 clients invested in Centurion.
Mrs Ks representative said that volume shouldve been cause for concern, in line with the 
regulators guidance. But I dont think that eight was such a significant number that it 
shouldve led Suffolk Life to question the motivations of Firm A or the suitability of the 
investment proposition for Mrs K purely based on the number of customers investing in 
Centurion.
So, overall, I dont think there were any grounds to be concerned about accepting business 
from Firm A. So it follows that I think it was reasonable in principle for Suffolk Life to accept 
the SIPP application. Although, as I will go on to discuss, an important part of Suffolks Life 
decision to accept the application from Firm A should also include its consideration of the 
investment proposition. 
What due diligence checks did Suffolk Life carry out on the Centurion investment?
It isnt in dispute that Suffolk Life understood it needed to carry out due diligence on the 
Centurion investment. So, Ive considered the checks Suffolk Life carried out here and 
whether it met its obligations to Mrs K in line with the Principles Ive referred to above and 
COBS.
Suffolk Life said that upon receipt of an investment instruction, it checked to ensure that the 
investment met with its schedule of allowable investments. It said the schedule was created 
based on guidance set by the FCA, the implication being that the investments it allowed to 
be held in its SIPPs were permitted by the FCA. But Suffolk Life hasnt said what this 
guidance was. And, as far as Im aware, the FCA did not have any set criteria for 
investments that could be held in a SIPP at that time. It left it to SIPP operators to determine 
what investments could be held in their SIPPS, reminding them in 2009 that they were 
subject to the Principles and that they should be wary of an anomalous and esoteric 
investments. So, I havent placed great weight on what Suffolk Life has said about the 
schedule being based on FCA guidance. 
Nevertheless, Ive looked at the schedule and this shows that unregulated open ended 
investment companies (OIECs) and other unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS) were permitted investments to be held in the SIPP. As the Offering Memorandum 
confirms, the Centurion fund was a UCIS.
The schedule also set out the following liquidity requirements:Investments (with the exception of direct property investments) must be:
(a) redeemable for cash within 90 days; or
(b) freely transferable to another person eligible to invest in that investment.
The Centurion Offering Memorandum explains that the investment was valued on a monthly 
basis, and the redemption of shares would generally take place on the first day of each 
calendar month at the request of the shareholder. Therefore, the shares could be sold with 
notice and were also freely transferable. So on this basis alone, Suffolk Life determined that 
this type of investment was permitted to be held in the SIPP.
This means that Suffolk Life has essentially said that its due diligence duty in respect of the 
investment made by Mrs K was limited to ensuring that it could legitimately be held in the 
SIPP and was not a scam. But that is only partially in line with the regulations and what 
I think was good industry practice at the time. As the regulator has made plain, SIPP 
operators have a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business that they administer. 
SIPP operators should undertake appropriate enquiries about the nature or quality of an 
investment proposed before determining whether to accept or decline it into its SIPP. And 
I think Suffolk Life ought to have known that its due diligence shouldve gone beyond simply 
checking that the type of investment was permitted on its own schedule of allowable 
investments.
I think Suffolk Life ought to have made checks to ensure it understood the nature of the 
investment proposed so that it could identify anomalous investments, such as unusually 
small or large investments, or more esoteric investments. Had it done so, I think that it ought 
to have been clear to Suffolk Life that both UCIS and life settlement funds should have been 
regarded as esoteric. Although the regulator drew attention to the risks involved in life 
settlement funds in 2011, I think its clear those risks were present in 2008 and so they 
should have been appreciated by Suffolk Life at the time. That doesnt mean that I think 
Suffolk Life shouldve foreseen the collapse of this particular fund or the sector as a whole, 
but it ought to have been clear it was a specialist investment that was unlikely to be suitable 
for most retail investors. And so, I think it ought to have proceeded with caution, rather than 
simply accepting the investment on face value.
Mrs Ks representative says that Suffolk Life should not have allowed Mrs K to invest in a 
UCIS, saying that UCIS are high-risk and not suitable for normal retail investors like Mrs K. 
And it again points to the 2009 Thematic Review which it says shouldve led to Suffolk Life 
declining to accept the investment given its esoteric nature.
But while the FCA prohibited the promotion of UCIS to retail investors in January 2014, in 
2008 it was permitted for IFAs to recommended UCIS investment to clients who were not 
sophisticated or high net-worth clients if they thought the investments were suitable for them. 
So, the fact that it was an esoteric investment that had been recommended to Mrs K, does 
not mean that Suffolk Life could only reasonably have rejected the application to make that 
investment. Suffolk Life couldve decided to only accept applications from sophisticated 
investors, and/or high net worth investors, and/or investors who had been advised by an 
authorised independent financial adviser. And as we know in Mrs Ks case, Firm A 
recommended that she make the investment.
Nevertheless, despite the investment having been recommended by Firm A, I do think there 
were some features of Mrs Ks application that warranted further scrutiny from Suffolk Life. 
These are that:Mrs K invested only around £33,000 in her SIPP which is generally a small 
investment amount for a SIPP.
In the SIPP application, Mrs K appointed a DFM to be used to manage the remaining 
funds in her SIPP. This amounted to only £7,000 being invested with that manager  
an unusually small amount to invest with a DFM.
Mrs K invested around £22,500 in the Centurion Fund. This was a UCIS, and 
although this type of investment was permitted by Suffolk Life, it was high-risk and 
subject to restrictions on the type of investors it could be promoted to  generally 
sophisticated investors and high net-worth investors.
In addition to being a UCIS, the Centurion Fund was a life settlement fund which was 
an esoteric type of investment.
So, based on the application, it wouldve been apparent to Suffolk Life that Mrs K was 
seeking to invest two thirds of her relatively small pension in a UCIS investing in life 
settlements. The investment strategy also included a very small investment with a DFM, 
which was anomalous. Based on these facts alone, this should have caused Suffolk Life 
some concerns that, to use the words in the 2009 Thematic Review, the application might 
involve possible instances  of consumer detriment such as an unsuitable SIPP. And 
under this guidance about the existing requirements to act in accordance with the Principles, 
I think Suffolk Life couldve reasonably been expected to seek clarification in these 
circumstances.  
However if Suffolk Life had checked with Mrs Ks authorised financial adviser, Firm A, I think 
it would have discovered the following facts:
The DFM selected to manage funds in the SIPP was also managing Mrs Ks PEP 
and ISA portfolio, which meant the small managed part of the SIPP no longer looked 
so anomalous. It also demonstrated some experience of investments.
Mrs K also had other pension provisions with her employer, meaning the overall 
proportion of her pension provision invested in the UCIS was not as large as it 
seemed if only the SIPP was considered.
Mrs K also had a second property providing a rental income. Whilst this doesnt 
necessarily show she was a sophisticated investor, it was part of an overall picture 
that showed Mrs Ks financial position was relatively secure and not an obvious 
cause for concern.
Given these additional facts, I think any initial concerns Suffolk Life couldve had about the 
Mrs Ks SIPP and investment application wouldve been allayed. Furthermore, and as Ive 
said above, it still remained Firm As responsibility to assess the suitability of the investment 
for Mrs K, not Suffolk Lifes.
In terms of the specific investment proposed, it doesnt appear that Suffolk Life carried out 
any checks on the fund manager, Centurion Fund Managers Ltd, or the persons with 
significant control within it, which I think ought to have formed part of the due diligence 
checks. The company was registered in the Cayman Islands and so it couldve sought 
information about it through the Cayman Islands General Registry. But had it done so, Im 
not persuaded it would have found anything concerning about the company or the people 
involved.
Theres also no evidence that Suffolk Life made any independent enquiries in relation to the 
Centurion fund  instead it only considered the Offering Memorandum. But this was 
produced by the fund itself so wasnt independently verified. But, despite this, I dont think in 
the circumstances of this complaint, it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that it 
treated Mrs K unfairly and facilitated an investment that it otherwise shouldnt have done.The Centurion fund was a genuine asset, incorporated in 2003 and so by the time Mrs K 
invested it had been operating for five years and appears to have been delivering returns in 
line with the 9% targeted return set out in the Offering Memorandum. So, at the time of the 
investment, the fund was liquid and performing.
In summary, although Mrs K was being advised to invest in a UCIS, which I accept was 
generally considered to be a higher risk investment, Im not persuaded that Suffolk Life 
shouldve declined to accept the Centurion investment into Mrs Ks SIPP. I accept there 
were some reasons to have some concerns in this case about the investment. But Suffolk 
Life wasnt Mrs Ks adviser, Firm A was. Suffolk Life, as the SIPP operator, was not required 
to or authorised to advise on suitability of the investment for Mrs K in her personal position. 
As Ive set out above, I think Suffolk Life could have done more to clarify Mrs Ks personal 
circumstances, given the implications of the information contained in the application form. 
But even if had done so, on balance, I think it would reasonably still have allowed the 
application and permitted the investment to be held in the SIPP. So, while I understand this 
will be very disappointing for Mrs K, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman