DRN-2406711
The complaint
Mr M says IN-SYNC Credit Services irresponsibly lent to him. He says there was a lack of 
due diligence by IN-SYNC and checks to establish whether the lending was affordable for 
him. As a result of the lending, both he and his familys health and financial circumstances 
have suffered.
 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans IN-SYNC provided to Mr M between July and 
August 2016. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 18/07/2016 04/08/2016 2 £250.00 £167.01
2 14/08/2016 04/05/2017 4 (weekly) £350.00 £126.70
In our latest assessment, our adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think that loan 
two should have been given. The repayments for that loan should have caused IN-SYNC to 
carry out additional checks about Mr Ms financial circumstances and if it had it should 
reasonably have concluded that Mr M wasnt managing his money and it shouldnt have lent 
to him.  
Mr M said he was satisfied with the proposed outcome. 
IN-SYNC disagreed but didnt give us anything further to consider. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
IN-SYNC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that IN-SYNC should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that IN-SYNC was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M was satisfied with the adjudicators opinion. Because of this, I dont think there is any 
ongoing disagreement about loan one. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. 
But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with IN-SYNC. So, it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Mr M returned for more borrowing at loan two the same day that he repaid loan one. And the 
amount borrowed increased by £100 to £350 and the term of the agreement doubled. 
Returning for a higher amount of borrowing the same day a previous loan is repaid can be 
an indication that someone is in financial difficulty or having problems managing their 
finances and juggling their money in order to make ends meet.
And I note the credit agreement for loan two states there was to be an initial repayment of 
£126.70 and followed by a further three weekly payments for the same amount. So, Mr M 
would be repaying a total of £506.80 within a four week/one month term. This represented a 
relatively large portion of Mr Ms income and that, along with the quick uptake of further 
borrowing at loan two after repayment of loan one, should have caused IN-SYNC to 
reconsider whether it should agree to the lending to Mr M without carrying out further checks 
about Mr Ms financial situation. 
If IN-SYNC had carried out more proportionate checks in order to build a better picture of   
Mr Ms circumstances, I think it most likely that it would have seen he was having problems 
managing his money. I say this because by gathering further information about Mr M, IN-
SYNC would have become aware that Mr M was borrowing from other short-term credit providers  at least eight  which would also need financing. By agreeing to loan two, IN-
SYNC worsened Mr Ms already poor financial situation so I dont think it should have given 
the loan.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan two and IN-SYNC should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress IN-SYNC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M at loan two, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce IN-SYNCs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan two from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires IN-SYNC to take off tax from this interest. IN-SYNC 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. IN-SYNC Credit 
Services should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman