DRN-2823964
The complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) has declined to deal with his 
claim under a motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C was driving his car on a road he uses regularly. His car hit an area of deep water in the 
road. It was flooded and subsequently written off. 
One Insurance investigated Mr Cs claim under his motor insurance policy and declined to 
deal with it. It said hed breached the policy terms and conditions. These say he must take all 
reasonable steps to protect the car from loss or damage. It said hed known the road was 
wet. And there was a flood warning sign. It also said he wouldve seen other road users 
struggling with the conditions. 
One Insurance said it couldnt accept Mr C had taken reasonable steps to protect his vehicle 
in accordance with the policy terms. And as hed breached the policy terms it couldnt 
therefore indemnify him for his loss. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said hed fulfilled the policy condition. He was completely 
unaware of the volume of water on the road due to a river having just burst its banks. The 
waters depth had suddenly increased. Mr C wants One Insurance to deal with his claim. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. In addition to wanting One Insurance to deal with 
his claim, he complains that One Insurance handled the whole claim process badly. 
Specifically, he complains that One Insurance transported his vehicle to a storage facility 
200 miles away and didnt tell him where it was until 15 days after the incident. 
Our investigator felt his complaint should be upheld. He thought it was unfair to say that Mr 
C didnt take adequate precautions to protect his car. He felt One Insurance should deal with 
the claim. 
One Insurance disagreed. In summary it said that Mr C did have time to react to the 
conditions. So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 April 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
One Insurances policy made clear in its terms and conditions that, amongst other things, 
You or any person in charge of your car must take reasonable precautions to:
Maintain your car in an efficient and roadworthy condition
Protect your car from damage or loss
This term has been brought to Mr Cs attention and he accepts it was a condition of his 
policy. 
So, the question I must consider is whether or not Mr C did in fact take all reasonable steps 
to protect his car and whether One Insurance have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions by declining to deal with his claim. 
Mr C strongly denies that he put his vehicle at risk. He says the following: The flood had 
only just happened, and was still happening because, although I went into a foot of water, 
the water was still rising, and I had to get out of my vehicle and wade to a safe spot. He 
says this proves that the river had only just burst its banks at the time of the incident. Mr C 
also says: In my opinion there were no clear indicators that the river had burst its banks. 
When I swerved to avoid the debris in the road, the road was no different to the usual after 
heavy rain. Indeed, there is a cautionary sign stating that there may be a potential hazard 
ahead, namely a flood, but no more of a flood than the usual 1 to 2 inches. He notes that he 
drives on this road two or three times a week, so he knows it very well. So he says he knows 
that when theres been heavy rainfall the road does flood a little.  
Mr C also says that he brought his vehicle to a stop as soon as he realised what was 
happening, noting that this was well within the stopping distances for a vehicle travelling at 
30mph. Mr C says that the fallen barrier he drove around before reaching the flood waters 
was a foot under water ten minutes after the incident.
One Insurance says Mr C shouldve been aware of the risk of flooding from all of the warning 
signs  the flood warning sign, the fallen barrier, the other stopped vehicles and the surface 
water. It says that despite these clear observations, he begins to accelerate towards the 
water. Only begins to slow down after hitting deep water and is too late to avoid. 
In their final response letter, One Insurance gave the following reason for rejecting his claim: 
As the dash cam footage showed clear indicators of risk prior to you proceeding to drive 
further down the road, it is deemed the incident could have been prevented should the 
warnings have been adhered to.
Although the policy term says Mr C must take all reasonable steps to protect his car I dont 
think this can fairly mean he must take all possible measures to avoid damage that he 
himself couldnt reasonably or didnt actually foresee. 
In this case the incident was recorded on Mr Cs dash cam. So Ive been able to review the 
footage. It shows that it was dark. Mr C had to avoid a barrier which had fallen over. The 
dash cam shows Mr C was driving at around 20mph. He swerved to avoid the fallen barrier, 
thinking it was debris in the road. I think most drivers wouldve done the same. Almost 
immediately after that, he reached the flood waters. So although the dash cam shows that 
he braked at this point, by the time he stopped the flood waters were up to his bonnet.
Taking everything into account I agree with Mr C that he acted responsibly by reducing his 
speed to reflect the poor light, visibility and wet road conditions. I think he was reasonably 
aware of the potential risks he faced given the general conditions and his knowledge of the 
road. 
And I dont think theres anything to suggest Mr C was negligent or reckless by proceeding 
and continuing to drive as he did. I dont think on balance that he continued driving after he 
shouldve recognised there was an actual deep-water risk ahead of him. Neither do I think 
that he recognised the risk but ignored it, thus deliberately disregarding the cars safety. 
So I dont think One Insurance have shown that Mr C failed to take all reasonable steps to 
protect his car from damage or that hes breached the policy terms. So Im not satisfied that 
its fairly declined to deal with his claim. I intend to ask One Insurance to deal with Mr Cs claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should also pay him interest on the amount it pays him from the 
date of the claim until the date of payment. 
Distress and inconvenience
Its clear that Mr C has experienced considerable additional distress and inconvenience, 
over and above that which any consumer experiences in dealing with a similar claim, as a 
result of the way One Insurance has declined this claim. While it is of course reasonable for 
One Insurance to investigate the damage in an incident like this to see if the policyholder 
acted negligently, Im satisfied that it reached the wrong decision on his claim. I think its 
reasonable for Mr C to be compensated for this. 
Because Mr Cs claim was declined, he was never offered a courtesy vehicle. So hes been 
without the use of a vehicle since the incident, but is still paying for the vehicle. 
Mr C also notes that his vehicle has been stored 200 miles from his home. So hes not even 
been able to retrieve his personal belongings. He didnt find out where his vehicle had been 
taken until 15 days after the incident.
Mr C recently provided additional information. He said that on the day of the incident he 
first phoned his roadside assistance provider for help. He said they arrived within 45 minutes 
of the incident. And that they told him they could tow his vehicle out of the flood waters with 
approval from his insurance company. He says he immediately phoned One Insurance and 
told them his roadside assistance provider was on scene and could tow his vehicle out. He 
says One Insurance told him not to allow that. And that it would send one of their own 
contractors to collect the vehicle. He goes on to say that his vehicle couldve been pulled 
from the water an hour after the incident. But One Insurance didnt retrieve the vehicle for 
two days.
I can see that One Insurances claim notes state that the vehicle would be retrieved when 
the water levels had fallen. But I imagine it mustve been frustrating for Mr C having to wait 
to have his vehicle towed, knowing more damage was being done to it all the time it was in 
the water.
Considering everything, including the level of awards we make, I think a payment of £500 
compensation for this is fair for all the distress and inconvenience Mr C has suffered. 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither One Insurance or Mr C responded to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set 
out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, I require One Insurance Limited to: 
1. Deal with Mr Cs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
including excesses and limits. 2. Pay simple interest at the rate of 8% a year* on the settlement payment it makes 
from the date of the loss until the date it pays it; and 
3. Pay Mr C £500 compensation. One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays 
later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year* simple. 
* If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to do 
what Ive set out in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman