DRN-3769918
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the support he received from Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) when he 
was in financial hardship.
When I refer to what Mr R has said, and VF have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr R entered into a conditional sale agreement with VF to acquire a car. The 
total cash price of the car was around £20,288 and the total amount payable was 
approximately £23,110. Mr R paid a deposit of £20. The first repayment was approximately 
£529. There were 58 subsequent repayments of around £380 and a final repayment of 
around £529.
In February 2020, Mr R called VF to inform them that he may experience difficulties making 
his payments due to a family member being unemployed at the time. He wanted to reduce 
his monthly payments, so VF suggested a renewal of the agreement and asked Mr R to 
return certain information back to them. Mr R never returned this information but kept making 
his payments.  
On 23 March 2020, the United Kingdom (UK) government announced that UK would enter a 
lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr R said that due to the pandemic his income and 
finances were affected. He missed his finance agreement payments in April and May 2020. 
At the beginning of June 2020, Mr R contacted VF to request financial assistance as he was 
furloughed. At that time VF offered him a loan extension for three months to cover his April, 
May and June 2020 payments. This loan extension had a charge of £181.61.
At the beginning of August 2020, Mr R called VF and explained that he was still experiencing 
financial hardship, and VF send Mr R a voluntary termination pack. Following this, they sent 
him a default notice in mid-August 2020. 
Towards the end of August 2020, Mr R made a payment of £200 towards his agreement and 
in September 2020, he made a further payment of £150 towards his agreement. At the 
beginning of October 2020 Mr R paid £200 towards his agreement and paid a further £200 at 
the beginning of November 2020.
In January 2021, Mr R completed an income and expenditure form. A couple weeks later, he 
was provided with options of voluntary termination and voluntary surrender. And towards the 
end of January 2021, Mr R confirmed that he wanted to voluntary terminate his agreement. 
The car was collected and in February 2021, Mr R agreed with VF that he would be making 
payments of £50 a month to clear the balance, and Mr R started making payment towards 
this balance in April 2021.
Overall, Mr R didnt think that he got enough support from VF, when he was in financial 
difficulties, so he raised a complaint with them. 
In January 2022, VF responded to Mr Rs complaint. In this correspondence, they said in 
summary, that they werent upholding his complaint. They said numerous promises to pay
were broken and partial payments made, therefore charges and overdue interest were
added to the agreement. They explained that later, when Mr R was back in full time 
employment, they couldnt accept an agreement renewal request. In this correspondence, 
they also said that all charges were in line with their collections process, and that a finance 
liability of around £1,899 was payable by Mr R once voluntary termination was completed, as 
the halfway point in the agreement was not met. 
Mr R was unhappy with VFs response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of the investigators at our service, looked at his complaint and thought that VF 
shouldve done more to help Mr R when he was experiencing financial difficulties. The 
investigator thought that VF should pay Mr R compensation of £350 for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused. The investigator thought that VF should also remove the 
charge for the loan extension, as well as the additional interest for missed/late payments 
since April 2020. She also thought that VF should amend Mr Rs credit file to reflect the 
payments missed between April 2020 and September 2020 were due to Covid-19, so any 
adverse information reported on his credit file since April 2020 should be removed. 
Mr R agreed with the investigator, but VF disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to consider the relevant rules, guidance, 
the law, and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. Mr R acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement, 
which is a regulated consumer credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of 
agreements. 
In summary, Mr Rs main complaint point is that he was not treated fairly by VF when he 
found himself in financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He also feels that the car 
was wrongly taken from him. 
VF have told us that they have acted fairly and in accordance with the guidance set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). More specifically, they feel that the interest on the 
agreement was added correctly and was to be paid at the end of the agreement, as agreed 
with Mr R. They reiterated that he was furloughed for four months and then returned to 
employment, plus they said that he avoided contact with them on numerous occasions.
So, Ive taken the above into consideration and Ive considered whether VF have done 
enough to support Mr R, when he told them that he was experiencing financial hardship. 
When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant rules and guidance at the time. The 
rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to customers and consumers, and I will be 
using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words are to have the same 
meaning.  
 
On 24 April 2020, the FCA published additional guidance which came into effect on 27 April 
2020  Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This 
guidance introduced temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted 
by Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. In relation to the payment deferrals, the guidance states the 
following: Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience 
temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and 
wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral 
for three months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020, and later in September 2020. 
Both updates build on the previous guidance that was issued and stipulate that payment 
deferrals can be granted for a total period of six months. It is also important to note that 
within the mentioned guidance it states that: There is no expectation under this guidance 
that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether 
the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
Ive considered that in June 2020, when Mr R informed VF that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties not all of the above mentioned FCA guidance on Covid-19 had been 
published or in force. But Ive considered that before, and after, the additional Covid-19 
guidance was in force, there was other guidance such as the FCA  Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), and, in particular, CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery 
(including repossession), which say that firms should treat consumers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as considering suspending, 
reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, allowing deferment of 
payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. And from 
what Ive seen, it looks like VF was trying to help Mr R, by treating him with forbearance and 
due consideration. I say this because when Mr R had difficulties making payments towards 
the finance agreement, they offered Mr R a three-month extension of his agreement to cover 
the payment missed in April, May and June 2020. But there was a charge for this of around 
£182. So, Ive gone on to consider whether they shouldve done more.  
I think the FCA Covid-19 guidance, mentioned above, was intended for customers in 
situations like the one Mr R found himself in, and it was in force at the time. So, I think VF 
shouldve given Mr R the benefit of a three-month payment deferral as per the FCA Covid-19 
guidance. I think it would be fair if this was applied retrospectively for the payments missed 
in in April, May and June 2020. I think, had VF done this then, Mr Rs account wouldnt have 
been in arrears. Ive also thought about what shouldve happened after, when at the 
beginning of August 2020, Mr R called VF and explained that he was still experiencing 
financial hardship. 
I know that VF at that time sent him a voluntary termination pack, but I think during that time 
he was still impacted by Covid-19. So, I think it wouldve been fair for VF to apply the FCA 
Covid-19 guidance mentioned above. As per the guidance, a payment deferral couldve 
been extended for a further three months. This wouldve covered the July, August and 
September 2020 payment. Overall, together, I think the payment deferrals shouldve been 
applied for a total of six months from April 2020 to September 2020. And at that point in time 
VF and Mr R couldve had further discussions of how the further repayments should be paid 
back.
Especially given that the above mentioned FCA guidance states that where a customer can 
resume full repayments after the payment deferrals, but is unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately, the firm should allow them to repay the deferred amounts over the 
remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer period for the repayment. It also says that 
the firm should consider what is most in the customers interests. And, if Mr R was still 
experiencing financial difficulties, then FCA expected firms to offer tailored support to 
customers who were still facing financial difficulties after taking out the maximum six-months 
payment deferrals. The Tailored Support Guidance, issued by the FCA in January 2021, 
which originally came into force in October 2020 and was updated in November 2020, 
indicated that the FCA expected firms to be flexible and employ a range of short-term and 
long-term forbearance options. 
I think VF havent applied all the FCA guidance mentioned, which forced Mr R to keep 
attempting to clear the arrears by making certain payment towards the agreement, as seen 
by August 2020 payment of £200, September 2020 payment of £150, £200 payment in 
October 2020, and a further £200 at the beginning of November 2020. The first two of these 
payments were made while Mr R wouldve been in a six-month deferral period, had VF 
followed the FCA guidance mentioned above. Also, Mr R told us that he tried to make a 
payment arrangement with VFs agents, but as no agreement was reached, I think most 
likely this may have made him feel that the only option was to voluntary surrender. 
Obviously, it is difficult to say in what state Mr Rs account wouldve been if six-months 
worth of deferrals had been granted, and whether the account wouldve been in the same 
position as it was when Mr R decided to voluntary terminate. But definitely Mr Rs account 
wouldve been in a better position had the above FCA guidance been followed. So overall, I 
think VF have to take some steps to put things right for Mr R.
I think it wasnt reasonable for VF not to grant the deferrals to Mr R, and I think had they 
done this he most likely wouldnt have incurred the £181.61 charge for extending his 
agreement for three months, so I think they need to remove this charge. As mentioned 
above, the guidance states that firms should allow consumers to repay the deferred amounts 
over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer period for the repayment. But 
these options were not available at the time as VF never offered a six-month deferral to Mr 
R. Also, the guidance says that the firm should consider what is in the customers best 
interests at the time. And I dont think VF considered Mr Rs interests fully as at the time, 
without the six months deferral, his financial situation seemed a lot different than it wouldve 
been had he been grated the deferral.
VF should also remove any additional interest for missed/late payments they charged Mr R 
from April 2020 onwards, as he wouldnt have incurred these had VF granted him a six-
month payment deferral. After the deferral, VF shouldve followed The Tailored Support 
Guidance which says they wouldve needed to employ a range of short-term and long-term 
forbearance options. Even though it is now difficult to say what avenues wouldve been 
agreed between Mr R and VF sometime after September 2020, I think, had Mr R initially 
been given the six-months breathing space, his situation wouldve been much better than it 
was. And, considering that Mr R was making ad hock payments towards his agreement, 
such as the four payments mentioned above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for 
Mr Rs credit file to have any adverse information recorded on it from April 2020 onwards. 
Also, I think it is only fair and reasonable that they compensate Mr R £350 for the stress and 
inconvenience that this situation caused him. I say this because during this time Mr R had 
additional financial pressure which he wouldnt have had, if the payment deferral been 
granted, and he wouldnt have needed to make the August 2020 payment of £200 or the 
September 2020 payment of £150. 
Mr R has mentioned that the car was taken away when it shouldnt have been. But as the 
agreement ended and the car has been collected and sold, I cant ask VF to reinstate the 
agreement and return the car to him. Also, Ive considered that Mr R confirmed to VF that he wanted to exercise this option. This was after VF explained this option to him on more than 
one occasion. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for VF to collect and sell the car. 
To repay the remainder of the amount due under the voluntary termination, Mr R and VF 
have agreed a repayment plan of £50 a month. Considering this amount works for both 
parties, I think this is reasonable. If Mr Rs circumstances change at any point in time, he 
should discuss this with VF at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Vauxhall Finance plc to:
- Remove the £181.61 charge for extending his agreement for three months;
- Treat the April to September 2020 missed payments as a six-month payment 
deferral;
- Remove any additional interest charged for missed/late payments since April 2020;
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file from April 2020 
onwards; and 
- Pay Mr R £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman