DRN-1616385
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc has sent it postal statements in a way 
that means the balance of its account is visible through the envelope.
What happened
C says that its staff were able to see the bank balance through the unopened statement 
envelope. This was due to the size of the envelope window and the strong ink used on thin 
statement paper. C says that this has resulted in questions about the sizeable balance and a 
request for better terms from its staff. When C complained TSB paid it £50 in compensation 
and £6 towards call costs.
Our investigator did not recommend that TSB do anything further. The information in 
question was not personal data as it was about Cs bank account. And so, she was not able 
to say that data protection legislation had been breached. Shed looked at physical examples 
of statements sent in by C and she said in her view of the complaint that I can see that even 
though the statements enclosed are folded over, some of the figures and columns do show 
through but I had to look very closely and study the window envelope to make out what the 
actual figures were. I dont feel they are easily or clearly visible - its not clear if figures are 
outgoing or incoming payments and I cant see the final account balance for the time period 
the statements relate to. Our investigator went on to say that the processes used by TSB 
were not something we could look at, but it had acknowledged an issue and was looking to 
resolve this. The compensation was reasonable. C had since complained that despite asking 
for statements to go to the directors personal address, they had still gone to the business 
address and this was a new complaint that would need to be looked at separately.
C did not agree. The director said that there was clearly a problem. It was not reasonable 
that the staff at C and even the postman could see how much money was in the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As C says TSB accepts that there is an issue with the way that statements have been 
printed and sent. In its response to this service TSB questions whether the balances printed 
on the right-hand side of the statement would be visible through the envelope. And our 
investigator gave her view about the difficulty of seeing the figures when looking at the actual 
physical statements. Ive not been able to do that, but I accept that, possibly with some 
effort, staff were able to see the balance as I dont see any reason for C to make this up. 
And on any view some figures were visible.
I agree that this is not personal data, but I still need to think about the impact for C. It cant 
suffer distress as a company, so I need to think about inconvenience and the impact on its 
business. The director has not said and shown whether she has paid additional money to 
staff that would not otherwise have been paid. And I note that for a limited company some 
information is already in the public domain  with cash at bank of a similar amount to that 
referred to by C being reported in the most recent filleted accounts Ive been able freely to 
view online.
We cant tell TSB how to operate as we are not the regulator. Im sure it wasnt the intention 
that confidential information could be viewed in this way. But the issue is that TSB is clearly 
on notice of this problem. And if it continues to send statements to C in this way then there 
would be the basis for further complaints as already referred to above. Im looking at the 
circumstances of this one and on balance Im satisfied that the payment is appropriate to the 
level of inconvenience caused and so I wont be asking TSB to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that TSB Bank plc need take 
no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman