DRN-2955855
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Trace and Access (T&A) cover wasnt highlighted as an exclusion 
under a Landlord Emergency Cover add on policy to his Landlord Insurance policy with U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI). Mr C complains that the Emergency Cover 
policy was mis-sold to him.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr C made a claim under the Landlord Emergency cover policy for a leak 
coming through a ceiling from an upstairs bathroom. UKI is the insurer but it delegated the 
handling of the emergency cover claim to an agent. For the purposes of my decision, the 
agent is included in any reference I make to UKI. 
UKI arranged for a contractor to attend. Mr C said the contractor told him he wasnt 
authorised to cause damage in order to carry out any repair. The contractors note says he 
was unable to see a visible leak from the shower or bath and advised Mr C to contact UKI to 
claim under his buildings insurance under T&A.
In July 2020 Mr C arranged for a plumber to attend the property. He cut a hole out of the 
ceiling, located the source of the leak and carried out a repair. Mr C has provided a copy of 
the invoice for £85 and a photo of the ceiling after the hole was cut out. He said he had to 
pay a plasterer to repair the ceiling and this cost him £250. 
A few days later Mr C complained to UKI. He thought it should have highlighted that T&A 
was excluded from the Emergency cover part of the policy. Mr C said hed cancelled a 
similar policy with another business that included T&A and had been attracted to UKIs policy 
due to there being no excess for claiming under the Emergency cover policy. 
Mr C believed UKI had mis-sold the Emergency cover policy to him. 
UKI said it listened to the key sales call and while there was a lengthy discussion about  
what was and wasnt covered, Mr C didnt ask about T&A and the agent didnt discuss it 
either. 
UKI said it cannot list all its exclusions  but the fact that the policy wording didnt include 
T&A meant it hadnt done anything wrong. So UKI didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Mr C said an agent at UKI 
acknowledged that the policy wording wasnt clear and offered to have the wording changed 
in order to resolve his complaint. 
Our investigator listened to the sales call and looked at the policy wording. He didnt find UKI 
had acted unreasonably. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he says the Emergency cover policy is a specialised policy 
and so it should have highlighted that T&A was excluded. He says the whole point of 
emergency cover is to carry out emergency repairs in order to mitigate further damage in the 
event of a claim having to be made against the main policy. 
Mr C says the policy wording highlights cover for leaks from a plumbing system as a main 
feature of the policy cover, which would be a main cause for emergency assistance and 
plumbing systems contain both visible and hidden pipes. Mr C says he read the policy and 
accepts that it doesnt say T&A is included. But he believes UKI should have clearly 
highlighted that T&A is excluded under this specialist policy.
As Mr C didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C wants us to listen to the call he had with UKI when he discussed his 
complaint. He says the agent agreed with him that the policy wording wasnt clear and 
offered to arrange for it to be changed. But the evidence I find key to considering Mr Cs 
complaint is the sales call, the policy wording Mr C was provided with, and the final response 
UKI gave. Along with all of the information provided by both parties, these key pieces of 
information are behind Mr Cs complaint.
UKI sold both the Landlord insurance policy and Landlord Emergency policy to Mr C on a 
non-advised basis. This means UKI didnt provide Mr C with advice as to whether the 
policies suited his needs. As a commercial customer, Mr C discussed the Emergency policy 
with UKI at length before deciding to buy it. 
Its not for us to say what an insurer should and shouldnt include as part of its cover, but we 
can consider if the policy wording an insurer provides is clear and not misleading.
UKI sent Mr C the policy documents which he acknowledges he read. If Mr C had any 
questions about the policy, he could have contacted UKI and if unhappy, was able to cancel 
the policy within the cooling off period. 
Ive carefully considered the comments Mr C makes about the purpose of having Emergency 
cover and why he is of the view that T&A should have been highlighted as an exclusion. But 
I dont think UKI mis-sold the policy to him. Nowhere under the Emergency cover policy does 
it refer to T&A. So I dont think UKI led Mr C to believe this cover was included. This is a 
benefit available under the main Landlord Insurance policy Mr C held with UKI under the 
insured peril of an escape of water. 
Ive looked at the contractors comments following his visit to the property in June 2020. 
They reported:
Ph (policyholder) has a leak from the shower or bath. No visible leaks from either of 
them. Not a continuous leak it only leaks when facilities are used. Will require trace 
and access. Advised landlord to contact his buildings insurance for further 
maintenance.
So I dont think UKI acted unreasonably  and this means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman