DRN-4100198
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) handled a dispute about a 
payment he made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr K bought flights using his HSBC credit card. However, the flights were impacted by the
global Covid-19 pandemic, and he was informed by the travel agent that the return trip was
cancelled.
Mr K raised a dispute with HSBC to try and get the full amount he paid for the flights as he
said that is what the travel agent promised. HSBC applied a temporary credit and raised a
chargeback, but it was declined because Mr K had already received a partial refund back
from the airline via the travel agent. HSBC didnt pursue the chargeback further  it also did
not uphold a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) as it
didnt think there was a technically valid claim. It did offer Mr K £50 for the customer service
he received and also some accrued interest that an agent had promised he would get back.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint about the way the claim was handled. She
didnt think HSBC shouldve done anything more in relation to chargeback or Section 75.
However, she thought HSBC should pay Mr K more for the way it handled the claim. She
recommended it pay him another £100.
Mr K did not agree  he explained the travel agent had said he would get a full refund and
suspects this is what the airline paid it. He also says he cant be sure the partial refund he
received is a fair reflection of the flights he lost, and he is out of pocket for more expensive
replacement flights which he had to source months later.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 12 April 2023. In this I said:
Im sorry to hear about the disruption caused to Mr Ks plans due to the global pandemic.
However, it is important to note that HSBC is not the supplier of travel services which are the
subject of the dispute. So I have considered its liability in respect of its role as a provider of 
financial services. In that respect the key protections are chargeback and Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). So I have considered these when determining 
what HSBC should fairly do to put things right.
Section 75
Section 75 can in certain circumstances allow Mr K to make a like claim against HSBC for
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid for goods and services on his
HSBC credit card. There are certain technical requirements that must be met for a valid
Section 75 claim as set out in the legislation.
I note HSBC has said that Section 75 does not apply here because there is no valid debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. I dont think this is quite right  Mr K has a Section 75 claim,
but it is limited to his agreement with the travel agent that he paid for the booking. As a result
his Section 75 claim would concern any breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of
the travel agent but not the third-party airline.
I have clarified how Section 75 applies here  however, I dont think it means that Mr Ks
claim shouldve been upheld. I say this because the terms and conditions of the travel agent
are clear that it is not responsible for the operation of flights or airline cancellations. It says
that although it provides assistance in processing payments, where an airline cancels a
booking it is not responsible for the application of refunds. So although Mr K believes the
airline should have refunded him more money  even if this were the case I dont think this
would be a breach of contract that HSBC would be liable for here.
I also note Mr K is claiming consequential losses for the replacement flights he booked
months later in order to get home. I am sorry to hear these were costly for him. However, the
travel agent is not responsible for the cancellation, and it is also clear in its terms that it is not
responsible for paying compensation for this.
I note Mr K has indicated that the travel agent promised him a full refund  but I think the
communication he received was not an outright promise and indicated that this would
depend on the airlines policy. In any event I note this communication was after he entered
the booking agreement paid for using the credit card.
In summary, although Mr K has a claim against HSBC under Section 75 I dont think it gives
rise to a breach of contract or misrepresentation. So I dont think HSBC were wrong in
declining the Section 75 claim here.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way HSBC can try and recover money Mr K has spent on his card. The
rules are set out by the relevant card scheme. I understand that in this case these are the
VISA rules. There are question marks here over whether Mr K raised the matter in time for
HSBC to have a valid chargeback. I dont consider it necessary to focus on the time limits
here as even if the chargeback were raised in time I dont think it had a reasonable prospect
of success in any event  I will explain more below.
I note that Mr K received a partial refund for the flights from the airline because he had used
the outbound journey. This appears to be the reason HSBCs chargeback attempt was
declined.
I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in not taking the chargeback further here. I am not
persuaded that Mr K was promised that a full refund would be processed and on the face of
it the amount he got back (although less than half of what he paid) looks like it could
plausibly relate to the portion of flights that were not received.
I know Mr K has said he has no way of knowing if what he got back is the right amount (the
booking was not itemised)  and he suspects the travel agent got a full refund  but
ultimately I think it is difficult to say that there was a clear case for HSBC to carry on
pursuing this matter through the chargeback scheme. So overall I think it acted fairly.
Customer service
I note that HSBC could have handled the claim better - it also appears to accept this. From
what I can see from the evidence available it wasnt always clear about things like thetemporary credit it paid Mr K, it kept him waiting on the phone for some time and did not
always call him back. It also appears to have taken a long time to give him an answer on the
outcome of his claim which was made in November 2020. Although HSBC says Mr K was
sent a letter regarding the chargeback outcome in March 2021 it is not clear to me that it
gave him an answer on his Section 75 claim until its Final Response in January 2022.
Overall, it seems that communication had failed here at least in part. So in considering an
award of compensation I have taken all this into account.
I note HSBC has proposed a certain approach to weighting the amount of compensation
which I have noted but alternatively I consider what is fair and reasonable globally in light of
our guidance for awards of this kind. In doing so I note that Mr K has been caused more than
the level of frustration and annoyance that might be expected from day-to-day life and the
impact is more than minimal. There have been repeated small issues with the way it handled
the complaint that has resulted in reasonable effort for Mr K to sort out. Overall, I think that
an award of £150 is fair. I understand that HSBC has already paid Mr K £50 so my direction
will be to pay the additional £100.
I asked the parties for a response. HSBC said it had nothing further to add and Mr K did not 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has added anything that would make me change my provisional findings 
(copied above). I still consider the outcome I am proposing to be fair and reasonable for the 
reasons already stated.
Putting things right
Pay Mr K the compensation outlined below.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr K £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman