DRN-3876266
The complaint
Mr G complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions 
unfairly invoiced him for end of contract damage charges when he returned car at the end of 
a hire agreement.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr G entered into a three-year hire agreement for a new car. The car he 
hired was registered in 2019. Under the terms and conditions of the hire agreement there 
was a 10,000 miles annual mileage limit. The hire agreement also said that Mr G would be 
responsible for damage or deterioration of the vehicle that was found to be outside of fair 
wear and tear as indicated by British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) 
guidelines.
Mr G had the car in his possession for around three and half years and, at the end of the 
agreement, made arrangements for the car to be handed back. This included the car being 
inspected by a third-party company before it was collected and returned. The person 
inspecting the car prepared a condition report and took photos of the car to corroborate any 
damage that was said to be found. The cars mileage was recorded as 7,110.
Mr G received an invoice from Novuna for £515 in respect of damage found on the car. Mr G 
complained to Novuna about the charges. He said the car had been in a very good condition 
and that he thought the person who had inspected the car had been trying to find faults with 
it. Mr G also said it was unfair that he wasnt given credit for the low mileage.
Novuna didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said it had reviewed the inspection report and was 
satisfied that the reported damage was beyond what was considered as fair wear and tear 
under the BVRLA guidelines. It said the charges were fair.
Novuna said that the person inspecting the car wouldnt have any reason to find damage 
unnecessarily and they were trained in the use of the BVRLA guidelines. It disagreed that 
the inspector had acted unfairly. Novuna also said that although the cars mileage was lower 
than allowed by the contractual agreement, mileage had no bearing on the damage that had 
been found. It said there were no provisions in the hire agreement that suggested there 
would be a reduction in end of contract charges if there had been a lower-than-expected use 
of the car. Novuna said Mr G remained liable for the £515 damage charges that had been 
invoiced.
Mr G was unhappy at Novunas response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think Novuna had 
acted unfairly in charging Mr G for the end of contract damages. 
Our investigator also said that the hire agreement didnt include a term that there would be a 
refund if the mileage was below the limit provided in that agreement.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view. He said his photos, which he had provided, 
showed the car was in excellent condition. He also disagreed that it was unfair to ignore the 
low mileage for the car as this would have a direct impact on its value.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G signed the hire agreement for the car in October 2018. Looking at this agreement it 
sets out that he will be responsible for any damage or deterioration of the quality of the car if 
it is considered to be outside of fair wear and tear as set out in the BVRLA guidelines.
The BVRLA guidelines are accepted as setting the industry standard as to what is and isnt 
accepted as fair wear and tear when a car is returned at the end of a financial agreement for 
the first time. So, I think it was fair for Novuna to apply these guidelines to Mr Gs car when 
he returned it.
I appreciate Mr G felt the person who inspected his car went out of his way to find faults, but 
I havent seen any evidence that they would have been motivated to exaggerate their 
findings. Ive also seen that photos were taken at the time of the inspection to confirm the 
recorded findings.
Mr G has also provided photos of the car which he says shows the car was in an excellent 
condition when he returned it. But I dont think these photos are as sharp and clear as those 
provided with the inspection report, and they dont concentrate on the areas where the 
damage was found. The inspection photos also show a ruler and reflector board in order to 
demonstrate the actual size of the damage. Im therefore accepting the inspection report 
photos are accurate when considering whether or not charges under the BVRLA guidelines 
should be applied.
I also think that as the car was supplied new to Mr G, that its more likely than not that any 
damage found when it was inspected in August 2022 had occurred during the time Mr G was 
responsible for it.
Looking at the inspection report of the damage found on the car, firstly there was a scuff on 
the front left alloy wheel. The photo provided with the inspection report clearly shows the 
scuff and that it was over 50mm in length. The BVRLA says anything over 50mm would not 
be considered fair wear and tear. Im satisfied that the charge of £65 was fair.
There was damage found to the front bumper which was misaligned around the headlight. 
The photo provided shows this misalignment and that this will require repair. Im satisfied this 
damage is outside what would be considered as fair wear and tear and the charge of £50 for 
this is fair. There were also a number of scratches to the same bumper. The photos show 
deep scratches over 25mm which according to the BVRLA guidelines are not fair wear and 
tear, so Im satisfied that an additional charge of £175 for this damage was fair. This makes 
a total of £225 to be paid for the damage to the front bumper.
The front left wing mirror casing was found to have a scuff around 50mm, and this wasnt 
one that could be polished out. The photo with the inspection report clearly shows this and 
the size. BVRLA says scuffs less than 25mm are acceptable, so Im therefore satisfied that 
the charge of £75 was fair.
The photo of the rear bumper confirms the inspectors findings of dirt in the paintwork. Im 
satisfied that this is the result of a poor repair as the paint is contaminated by dirt. The BVRLA says poor repairs with evidence of paint contamination are not acceptable. Im 
satisfied that the charge of £75 is fair.
The quarter panel trim has contamination as there is an area of the trim which is distorted. 
The BVRLA guidelines say that there should be no discolouration to body mouldings and so 
I think this damage is outside what would be considered fair wear and tear. Im satisfied the 
charge of £75 was fair. 
So, I think the damage charges of £515 were fair when looking at the condition of the car at 
the time it was returned at the end of the contract. 
Mr G says it is unfair that he wasnt given credit for the mileage being lower than expected 
under the agreement since this would have had an impact on the value of the car. But 
looking at the terms and conditions of the agreement there isnt a term which provides for 
any refund if the mileage limit isnt reached. And I dont think that because there is a term for 
charging an excess fee if the mileage limit is exceeded that it means that its necessarily 
unfair that there isnt a similar term to reimburse the customer should the opposite apply. 
And since such a term doesnt exist then I dont think its reasonable to require Novuna to 
make any such reimbursement. 
I accept Novunas view that the cars mileage isnt related to the charges for the damage as 
these are separate matters. Thats because under the agreement Mr G is responsible for the 
cars condition and has liability for any damage found that it isnt fair wear and tear. Mr G has 
also signed this agreement to show he was content to abide by its terms and conditions. I 
therefore dont think Novuna has acted unfairly and unreasonably when it charged Mr G for 
the damages found as outlined above without applying any reduction for the low mileage.  
For the reasons above, and while I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr G, Im not 
upholding his complaint.
Ive seen that Mr G is concerned about repaying these charges. I would expect Novuna to be 
open to discussing ways of repayment with him.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman