DRN-2234604
The complaint
Mr V complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr V was given a single loan by TFS in January 2014. He borrowed £4,000 that he agreed 
to repay in 48 monthly instalments. Mr V told TFS that he intended to use the loan to 
refinance some existing debt. TFS hasnt told us whether or not the loan has yet been 
repaid.  
Mr Vs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
checks TFS had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. But she thought the 
results of those checks should have led TFS to conclude it was unlikely Mr V would be able 
to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. So she didnt think the loan should have been 
agreed and she asked TFS to pay Mr V some compensation.
Disappointingly TFS didnt provide a response to that assessment. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Mr V accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Vs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr V required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr V. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr V undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr V. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr V.
TFS gathered some information from Mr V before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure although this was recorded as nil. It checked his 
credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed 
credit in the past. And it looked at two months bank statements provided by Mr V to verify 
what hed said about his finances.
Mr V was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of four years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Vs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient for TFS 
to achieve that aim  I think that TFSs checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
When he applied for the loan Mr V told TFS that he earned £1,000 per month. As a result of 
its checks, TFS used an income of £816 per month when assessing the affordability of the 
loan. But from looking at Mr Vs bank statements I cannot conclude that he was earning 
anywhere near that amount. Mr Vs bank statements show his income from his employer for 
October, November, and December 2013. Those amounts were £379.33, £654.92, and 
£698.29. I accept that there are some other credits in November showing as PayPal 
payments. But there appears to be no pattern to their receipt, nor were any received during 
December. So I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude those formed part of Mr Vs 
normal income.
So, whilst it might often be reasonable for a lender to accept a consumers declaration of 
their income, here I think TFS had clear evidence that Mr Vs earning were far less than he 
had stated when he applied for the loan. And when considering that lesser income, together 
with the other evidence from Mr Vs bank statements of his day to day spending and what 
TFS could see he needed to repay to other lenders, I dont think it could reasonably 
conclude that the repayments on this loan would be sustainably affordable for him.TFSs credit check showed that Mr V had a significant balance on what was called a mail 
order account. It was that account that Mr V said he wanted to partly refinance with the loan 
from TFS. But the outstanding balance was £9,949. So even if Mr V used the entire 
proceeds of the loan from TFS to refinance that debt he would still be left with a remaining 
balance of almost £6,000.
In my experience the rate of interest charged on these sorts of accounts is less than the 
APR of the loan that TFS offered to Mr V. So it is likely that refinancing his account in that 
way would have increased both the total amount that Mr V needed to pay, and the term over 
which he was indebted. Whilst that might have provided Mr V with some short-term relief 
from any obligations to repay the mail order account I cannot reasonably conclude that TFS 
offering a loan to Mr V for the sole purpose of refinancing that debt would be in his best 
interests.
So on balance I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to give this loan to Mr V. I dont think 
the results of its checks suggested that he would have sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably meet his repayments for a period of four years. So TFS needs to put things right 
for Mr V.
  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr V in January 2014. As I said earlier I dont 
know whether or not that loan has been fully repaid so I provide for both scenarios below.
If the loan has been repaid by Mr V, TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr V paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
If a balance still remains outstanding, TFS should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat any payments 
Mr V made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Vs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr V effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Vs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind TFS that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr V
In either scenario TFS should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Vs credit file 
in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman