DRN-4272039
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Fair for You Enterprise CIC (Fair for You) irresponsibly granted her 
two loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs D applied and was approved for a fixed sum loan agreement 
provided by Fair for You. Under the terms of the agreement, Mrs D was required to make 
13 four-weekly payments of £34.66. The total repayable under the agreement was £441.04. 
And in October 2021, Mrs D entered into a second agreement, this time requiring 18 monthly 
instalments of £37.77. Both loans were linked to specific products Mrs D intended to 
purchase. 
The first loan was settled in March 2021. Mrs D got into difficulty with the second loan soon 
after taking it out. 
Mrs D says that Fair for You didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen that the loans werent affordable. Fair for You didnt agree, saying 
for each loan it carried out a thorough assessment which included checks that were fair and 
proportionate to ensure the credit was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Fair for You didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving each of the two loan agreements.
As Mrs D didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fair for You will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting each of the loans, I think Fair for You gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mrs D about her ability to repay the loan. I say this given that 
Fair for You carried out a credit check and also an income and expenditure assessment  for 
each loan. Ive seen a summary of the credit check as well as the detailed income and 
expenditure checks. 
Although at the time of each application Mrs D had missed occasional payments in the 
previous twelve months, Fair for You didnt find that shed had any defaults. On one 
occasion where she had got into difficulty with some other borrowing she had got back on 
track soon after and closed that particular account. So, after allowing for her existing credit 
commitments and her new lending, Fair for You thought there would be enough disposable 
income for the new lending to be affordable for each of these loans. 
So, bearing in mind the amount of credit, the relatively low level of payments on each loan 
and the repayment period terms, I  think the checks carried out by Fair for You were 
proportionate. 
However, just because I think Fair for You carried out proportionate checks for each loan, it 
doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
available evidence and information at the time showed.
At the time of her first application Mrs D had told Fair for You that she had a total income 
each month of around £1,700. For her second loan application, Ive seen that Fair for You 
took into account Mrs Ds good payment record on the first loan. Mrs D also told Fair for You 
her total monthly income had increased to just over £1,900 per month.
Have seen the income and expenditure checks Fair for You carried out for each loan, it 
seems likely that Mrs D would have adequate funds available each month to fund the loan 
repayment whilst still leaving her with a reasonable amount of disposable income. Fair for 
You therefore thought that each of the loans was likely to be affordable. 
Because Mrs D was unhappy with our adjudicators initial finding she sent in some further 
evidence in the form of bank statements from before each loan was taken out. At the time of 
each loan I can see that Mrs D was making regular use of her bank overdraft facility and that 
shed had direct debits returned from time to time. The statements also broadly support the 
level of income Mrs D had said she was receiving. I can also see that she was using her 
income to repay sums to family members and also herself. But what Im not able to say from 
what Ive seen is that theres enough evidence in these statements to show or suggest that 
Mrs D was struggling financially to the extent that she would be unable to manage the 
repayments on each loan, keeping in mind the relatively low monthly repayments shed be 
required to make. And whilst Mrs D has also sent us a breakdown of her income and 
expenditure from July 2021 showing higher outgoings, I dont consider I can rely on that 
alone as being definitive of her financial situation at the point of each loan. And so I also 
cant say that it would necessarily have been what Fair for You might have seen when it 
carried out its credit checks and prepared its own income and expenditure assessments at 
the time of each loan. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that the new information Mrs D has sent us 
unfortunately isnt enough to be able to show that each of the two agreements were 
unaffordable and that this is something Fair for You reasonably could have been expected to 
see at the time it carried out each set of checks. 
Overall, although I realise this will not be what Mrs D wants to hear, I dont consider that 
Mrs Ds financial circumstances at the time of each loan meant that the monthly repayments 
would be unsustainable for her to repay. 
It follows that based on the available information, I dont think either of these two loans were  
likely to have been unaffordable to Mrs D. I therefore dont think Fair for You acted unfairly 
when approving each of these loan applications.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman