DRN-2108972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zopa Bank Limited wont remove a CIFAS marker it recorded against 
his name. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud alert services. 
What happened
When Mr M applied for a credit card with a third-party bank, his application was 
unsuccessful. He discovered that a CIFAS marker had been recorded by Zopa in July 2019 
for a fraudulent loan application. Mr M says he didnt make the application and that hed 
never heard of Zopa until he discovered the CIFAS marker.
Zopa said it had enough information to record the marker and wouldnt remove it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Zopa had done enough to show that the CIFAS marker had been correctly recorded.
Mr M didnt agree. He replied, in some detail, to say, in summary, that:
He wouldnt have applied for a loan using false information.
His bank had offered him a £10,000 loan and he could have borrowed money from family 
members, so he didnt need a loan with Zopa.
Zopa has discriminated against him.
He has been a victim of fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not this services role to investigate and uncover exactly what happened when the loan 
application was made  that is the role of the police and the banks fraud prevention 
department. Our role is to investigate the circumstances surrounding the complaint and 
decide if the bank has acted fairly and reasonably. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I want to firstly acknowledge that I understand the impact a CIFAS marker can have and 
I know Mr M has found it very upsetting to discover the marker and then for Zopa not to 
agree to remove it. But, having considered everything very carefully, I am unable to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain the reasons why.
The online loan application used Mr Ms correct personal details including his address, email 
address, and phone number. And it was completed using Mr Ms genuine bank account 
details. I think its unlikely a fraudster would apply for a loan using Mr Ms correct contact 
details and his bank account, as that wouldnt provide the fraudster with any benefit. 
Mr M says some of the information given during the application wasnt accurate  the time 
that Mr M had lived at his address and his employer. These inaccuracies are not enough to 
persuade me that the application was made by a fraudulent third party.
The bank used the phone number provided on the application to call the applicant to ask for 
paperwork to confirm his identity. The number is the same one that Mr M used to phone the 
bank to complain about the CIFAS marker; and the same number that he provided to us. He 
told us that his number could have been cloned. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest 
that is what happened  Ive listened to the phone calls and it seems more likely than not 
that it is the same person. Mr M also told us he lost his phone around the time of the 
application. Hes provided evidence to show that he replaced it around five months later. 
This may be the case, although it seems unlikely that Mr M would have been without a 
phone for several months. If he did lose his phone and a third party used it to commit a 
fraudulent application, it doesnt explain why or how that individual was also able to find out 
other personal information about Mr M  or why that individual would use Mr Ms genuine 
bank account details as part of the application.
Mr M told us he thought someone might have had access to his bank account but hasnt 
provided evidence to support this. I can also see from his bank statements that his account 
was overdrawn at the time of the application  by just few pence under £5,000. So had a 
third party been successful in making the loan application in Mr Ms name and if that 
individual had access to Mr Ms bank account, they would have found a more or less nil 
balance. I dont think its plausible that a third party would go to such efforts to make a 
fraudulent application knowing they would not gain any benefit.
During the application, Zopa identified that the document provided to verify the applicants 
identity was not genuine. I can see why it came to this conclusion  and Mr M has told us 
that he didnt possess the genuine document, which confirms the one supplied must have 
been fraudulent.
After careful consideration, and on balance, I think its more likely than not that the 
application was made by Mr M, or that he authorised someone to do so on his behalf.
And, after looking at all the evidence, I dont find that Zopa has discriminated against Mr M 
as he has suggested.
In the circumstances, I find Zopa had enough evidence to reasonably record the CIFAS 
marker against Mr Ms name.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman