DRN-3313184
The complaint
Mrs S says she hasnt received fair compensation from Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) for 
the unsuitable advice she received to transfer benefits from her occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) into a personal pension.
Mrs S is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
FR says Mrs S received advice from Phoenix (trading as Providence Capital) in 1991 to 
transfer her deferred OPS benefits into a personal pension plan. She was 42 at the time 
and had accrued 11 years of qualifying service up until 1989.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), 
established an industry-wide review of particular pension business carried out by 
authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the 
Pensions Review. Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to 
avoid the need for them to bring complaints later about what had happened.
Phoenix wrote to Mrs S and offered her a review of her pension transfer. She agreed and 
the exercise took place in 2000. It wrote to her in August of that year with the results of the 
review which compared the benefits of her OPS with those projected to be delivered by her 
personal pension plan. The letter set out the analysis it had undertaken and concluded in 
the following terms:
The  results  of our calculations  indicate  that you have  suffered  a loss of £9,087.41.  A 
summary  of our calculations  are attached,  together  with the information  and 
assumptions  on which  these  are based,  are included  in the Appendix.
To put matters right Phoenix proposed topping up Mrs Ss personal pension to compensate 
for the loss identified.
Mrs S signed a form on 15 September 2000 accepting Phoenixs offer in full and final 
settlement of the matter. The redress was paid in accordance with the agreement.
In February 2020 FR complained to Phoenix on Mrs Ss behalf. It said the original advice 
to transfer had been unsuitable and that the redress it had subsequently provided had 
been inadequate.
FR said this Service would have to consider the merits of Phoenixs advice to Mrs S to 
transfer out of her OPS, even though it had already been subject to the Pensions Review. 
And that Phoenix should use the latest redress guidelines issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to make sure she was put back into the position shed have 
been in had she not transferred her pension in 1991.
FR also made three more detailed arguments on behalf of Mrs S, which its helpful to set 
out more fully here. It told us:
Firstly, there is no evidence that, as [Phoenix] was required to, it made enquiries to check if 
reinstatement into the defined benefit scheme was possible. This would, of course, have 
been the best option for [Mrs S], as it was the only way she could be guaranteed to be put 
back in the same position she was in before the advice to transfer.
Secondly, there is no evidence that, as it was required to, Phoenix Life took "diligent 
steps to gather the information necessary to make an assessment of loss". For example, 
there is no evidence that diligent steps were taken to ascertain what discretionary 
increases applied to the occupational scheme. Instead, assumptions of zero have been 
used across the board.
Thirdly, Phoenix Life did not, as it was required to, use the correct cost assumptions for 
the personal pension managed fund The applicable SIB rule stated: "For the purpose of 
the loss assessment exercise it is not permissible to reduce a possible loss by assuming a 
reduction in the future expenses to be charged under the personal pension." Phoenix Life 
used a policy fee assumption of zero for 99% of the personal pension and an AMC 
assumption of zero for 77.5% of the personal pension.
Phoenixs response to the complaint was that the original advice for Mrs S to transfer her 
OPS had already been reviewed and the matter settled through the Pension Review 
carried out in 2000.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. FR disagreed with his findings and 
questioned the rationale hed provided in relation to the detailed arguments it had made in 
the case, such as action taken by Phoenix to reinstate her OPS membership. It also didnt 
think hed addressed the issue it had identified with some of the Pension Review 
calculations, for example assumptions for management costs on her personal pension.
As the parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mrs Ss complaint has been 
passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in January. FR sought more 
information about the annual management cost (AMC) assumption used by Phoenix in the 
Pension Review. And Phoenix has tried to provide more insight into the approach that was 
used. Neither submission has caused me to change my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why, focussing on the main arguments 
made by FR in bringing her case.
The Pension Review
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to 
rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible 
into the position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice.The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The 
financial business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be 
reinstated into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial 
business needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were 
used in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the 
pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement.
We know now that often the assumed growth rates used in the review calculations didnt 
materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits 
provided by personal pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid 
following the Pension Review plus the existing value of a pension would be high enough to 
match the OPS benefits at retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt actually make up for what their former pensions 
wouldve been worth now. That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review.
So, while FR might be correct the redress Mrs S accepted hasnt put her in the same 
position she wouldve been in but for the transfer of her pension, that doesnt mean I would 
require reassessment of the compensation shes received.
I recognise that many people like Mrs S will feel this is unfair. But market conditions 
that werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken isnt a reason 
for this Service to require settlements made under that process to be undone and 
recalculations made.
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be re-assured that the mis-selling 
had been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfers
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after 3 August 
2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and final 
settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would 
be excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said 
some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant 
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or 
where the circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
FR says that the review carried out by Phoenix in 2000 wasnt done correctly, for example 
because assumptions about the charges on her personal pension werent correct. And 
because theres no evidence to show it investigated whether reinstatement into her original 
pension was possible. It says this means Phoenixs review was invalid and so the redress 
due to Mrs S should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.Phoenixs position was that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable 
advice as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the 
requirements of the regulators at the time.
I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have 
been found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, 
sex, marital status or pension transfer value has been used. In these circumstances I would 
normally direct the business involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, 
not now).
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made 
and accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, 
the re-calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original 
calculation.
Ill now turn to three specific arguments FR made in relation to Phoenixs conduct of 
the review of Mrs Ss OPS transfer.
Reinstatement of Mrs Ss original OPS membership
FR has said that theres no evidence Phoenix had checked - as it was required to - 
whether reinstatement into Mrs Ss OPS was possible. In addressing this matter I can 
see that the Investigator muddied the waters a little by focussing on her employment 
and pension rights with an employer she joined in 1990, which was unconnected to the 
focus of this complaint  the transfer of her deferred OPS benefits in 1991, accrued with 
a different employer, which shed left in 1989.
While the Investigator did go on to provide his finding in relation to the relevant matter in 
Mrs Ss complaint, I can see why some confusion may have arisen.
Ive reviewed the evidence on file and can confirm that there are papers 
contemporaneous with the review undertaken by Phoenix in 2000, which show there 
were substantive communications between it and her former OPS provider.
I havent seen anything that records when and how Phoenix asked Mrs Ss OPS provider 
the specific question about the possibility of Mrs S being reinstated into her former 
scheme. But I have seen an internal document which records this option was:
Not possible, as the scheme will not reinstate past service for ex-scheme members.
We also know that when Mrs S was informed of the compensation offer being made, 
Phoenix noted it had explored the option of reinstatement but this hadnt been possible.
Although the record here isnt perfect, on balance I think its more likely than not Phoenix did 
what it was required to do.
The assumption that no discretionary increases wouldve applied to Mrs Ss OPS benefits
FR has stated that there was no evidence that Phoenix was diligent in gathering information 
to make a fair assessment of Mrs Ss loss. For example, it said assumptions were made in 
the calculations that she wouldnt have benefitted from any discretionary increases in her 
scheme benefits.
Ive considered Phoenixs pension review documentation for Mrs Ss case. Its recorded that 
the scheme information it had used in its calculation had been verified during the past year. I can also see from a note of a phone call between it and the OPS provider in May 2020, it 
was specifically confirmed that the calculations should assume no discretionary increases.
From the information available on file, Ive not seen anything which gives me cause for 
concern that Phoenix didnt meet its obligations in this case of seeking the information 
required to conduct a proper pension review assessment.
The assumptions made for personal pension charges in the review calculations
FR said Phoenix didnt deal properly with the charges associated with Mrs Ss personal 
pension plan in the review calculations  for example, it said charges had been assumed as 
zero for nearly 80% of the funds, and that this had a significant impact on the redress paid.
The Investigator relied on an exchange of letters between Phoenix and the then Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) about the calculations it was undertaking, to demonstrate that its 
approach to the calculations had been endorsed. I disagree with him about the relevance of 
this correspondence regarding the matter raised by FR.
The exchange of letters between Phoenix and the FSA concerned the approach it should 
take in pension review calculations generally to adjustments for the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS) element. This did provide comfort to Phoenix that its 
interpretation of the guidance at the time was correct. But this wasnt a matter FR was 
enquiring about, and the letters didnt address the point it was making. I can see why this 
mayve caused some confusion.
Having read the pension review calculation worksheets Phoenix has provided, it seems to 
me FR isnt quite right about the assumptions made about the management costs 
associated with Mrs Ss personal pensions. My reading of the workings is that an average 
management charge of 0.449% was made for the whole fund. Although, I accept that the 
way the figures are set out in different areas of the review papers is confusing.
I asked Phoenix to provide an explanation of its approach to the assumptions it made for 
AMCs, in particular the weighting/averaging of these costs in the Pension review for Mrs Ss 
case. It said:
We believe this is done to Capital Units and Accumulation Units that the Customer would 
have held. Capital Units cover the charges applicable to any policy, and are usually 
purchased early in the term of the policy, and then slowly switches to purchasing 
Accumulation Units  on Pension Review Calcs, you could only ever add accumulation units, 
as these are the ones that provide the growth potential as you would never add Capital 
Units after the initial set up on the policy.
Therefore, as the number of accumulation units would be much higher than you would 
expect from an initial transfer from the DB schemeand would be completely odd 
compared to the number of Capital Units that covers the majority of the policy charge, this 
would explain some of weighted average, but theres certainly nothing untoward with the 
calculation, as this is a standard Pension Review Calc print out format.
The format of the calculations were prescribed by the regulator, so it was only the AMCs 
etc. that were individual to each policy  they were only assumptions anyway, as the 
charges have subsequently been changed, so the loss calcwas looking at the loss at the 
date of calculation. It was based on specific assumptions and the charges now are much 
lower than at the time of this loss calc, so you cant compare anything now, against 
something from way back, but were confident the loss was calculated correctlyThis further explanation aside, I can see that Phoenixs approach to the assumptions made 
about the appropriate charges and fees to include in its calculation were subject to scrutiny 
on more than one occasion by qualified individuals.
This Service isnt a checking service, we dont employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what Phoenix and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then 
compared that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculation appears in line 
with the relevant guidelines set out under the Pension Review.
Ive not identified anything that was obviously wrong with the review Phoenix conducted. 
Neither has FR evidenced such a problem. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to require Phoenix to look at this matter again.
In summary
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise and Mrs S agreed a full and final settlement in 
2000 in respect of the unsuitable advice shed received. While the passage of time might 
suggest the compensation she agreed to doesnt match her actual loss, I havent seen 
anything which makes me think Phoenix Life Limited didnt act fairly or reasonably in 
conducting the review and settling matters in accordance with its regulatory obligations at 
that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman