DRN-4222194
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) irresponsibly lent to him. He says he was 
struggling financially and the payments to this loan were unaffordable. 
Background
Oplo provided Mr W with a loan in April 2018. The loan was for £8,000.00, had an APR of 
27.45% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £230.
Mr Ws complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that proportionate 
checks would have shown Oplo that Mr W wasnt in a position to repay this loan at the time it 
lent to him. So he upheld Mr Ws complaint. Oplo disagreed with our adjudicators view. As 
Oplo disagreed, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ws complaint. These two 
questions are:
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that          
Mr W would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Oplo didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealing with Mr W and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Oplo lent to Mr W required it 
to carry out a proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to make his repayments. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In practice this 
meant that Oplo had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to 
simply think about the likelihood of Mr W making payments, it had to consider the impact of 
any loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Oplos checks reasonable and proportionate?
Oplo has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr W before 
lending to him. It also carried out a credit check to work out what Mr Ws existing credit 
commitments were too. 
Im mindful that the credit check carried out showed that Mr W already had a significant 
amount of existing debt. It also showed that Mr W had had difficulties keeping within the 
limits of his revolving credit accounts. Oplo says that Mr W was only ever over his limit by 
small amounts. But given the amount of times this had happened and it was across more 
than one account, I think that Oplo ought to have been concerned by this.  
Oplo may also argue that this assessment fails to take into account that the recorded 
purpose of this loan was debt consolidation and therefore it was reasonably entitled to 
believe that Mr Ws monthly repayments to credit would reduce. But Mr W wasnt going to be 
able to clear all of his balances with this loan. And while this in itself doesnt mean that it was unreasonable to proceed with a consolidation 
loan, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially how 
this loan was going to improve Mr Ws outgoings going forward. So I dont think that it was 
reasonable for Oplo to accept the recorded loan purpose at face value in these 
circumstances. 
Given what the information obtained showed, I would have expected Oplo to have taken 
further steps to verify Mr Ws expenditure to ensure he had the necessary funds to repay the 
loan it was providing. After all Mr Ws indebtedness and apparent inability to keep within his 
credit limits did suggest that there was a realistic possibility Mr W was having difficulty 
managing his money. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that this was the first and only loan Oplo 
provided to Mr W. But bearing in mind the amount being lent, the loan term and the total 
cost, as well as what Ive highlighted about the information gathered, I do think that it would 
have been fair, reasonable and proportionate to have carried out further checks before 
proceeding in this instance.
As Oplo proceeded with providing this loan without taking further steps to verify Mr Ws 
expenditure, Im satisfied that the checks Oplo carried out before lending werent reasonable 
and proportionate in this instance.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Oplo that Mr W would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that proportionate checks would have told Oplo that Mr W wouldve been unable to 
sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr W has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. I know that Oplo has questioned our us of this information. Of course, 
I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something shows up 
in the information Mr W has provided, it doesnt mean it would have shown up in any checks 
Oplo might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Oplo showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Ws financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Its also important to note that Oplo was required to establish whether Mr W could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.The information provided shows that the reason for Mr Ws indebtedness and apparent 
inability to manage his money was because he was spending significant amounts of money 
gambling. And Mr Ws ability to make the repayments to this loan would in large part be 
dependent on his success as a gambler. Given this, it is apparent to me that Mr W was 
unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
As this is the case, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have demonstrated that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make the repayments to 
this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in these 
circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have alerted Oplo to the fact that Mr W would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
So Im satisfied that Oplos failure to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks in this 
instance resulted in it failing to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr W.
Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Oplo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other 
way.  
So I find that Oplo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way.  
Did Mr W lose out as a result of Oplo unfairly lending to him?
Mr W ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what Oplo did wrong and that it should 
put things right.
Fair compensation  what Oplo needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Oplo to put things right for 
Mr W in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr W paid on his loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest, fees, and charges from 
the date they were paid by Mr W to the date the complaint is settled;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give         
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should put 
things right for Mr W in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman