DRN-3536061
The complaint
Mr B complains about actions taken by Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) by 
changing his investments retrospectively without his consent.
What happened
Mr B said he had been in communication with Aegon about taking his tax-free cash (TFC) 
and moving into Flexi Access Drawdown (FAD). He had asked questions about his 
investments and was told they could remain as they were. He checked his funds regularly 
and up until early November 2020 they remained unchanged but were then moved with a 
retrospective date in September 2020. He had not authorised this and the change was 
without his consent. He then didnt change investments as he didnt want to affect his 
complaint. He thought he had suffered a loss as a result.
Mr B also said that the delay in dealing with his complaint about the fund switch from lifestyle 
into the retirement fund delayed his decision to enter FAD.
Aegon said Mr B raised a number of issues including the timescale for moving into FAD, the 
fund list link, complaint handling and delayed reply. It said that in order to move into FAD he 
needed to go through their assist team and the timescale quoted for this was accurate. It 
takes roughly 2 weeks to have an appointment and then the transfer can take up to 6 weeks 
to complete. It apologised that Mr B had problems with the link for the fund list but said it 
tried to help him and told him how he could make a manual trade if he was concerned about 
the value of his plan. 
It said the change in investment into cash was part of the way the plan had been set up with 
a lifestyle profile and a six-year glidepath to move into cash at his selected retirement age. 
So the switch was not an error nor without consent, as this was in the original description 
and fund fact sheet. It told him he could update his retirement age to change this if he 
wanted. 
It apologised for the delay in dealing with his complaint and sent him a £100 voucher.  
It said it was clear there were 3 pieces of information that led Mr B to believe he remained 
invested in the original funds beyond his selected retirement date. These were:-
1. the call on 11 August 2020 and 
2. the follow up email on 8 November 2020 and 
3. the 11 November 2020 email. 
The August communication said he was able to remain invested in his current funds. This 
was correct at the time as the lifestyle fund was not due to change until his retirement date. 
Its system showed the change had been done at this selected retirement date.
It accepted there were errors in the 8 November 2020 email as it confirmed charges for 
funds he no longer held at that time, as the switch to retirement funds had already been 
done. 
It didnt find anything wrong in the later November communication. 
The investment switch was done as it was designed to be done. But it could seem some 
communication made him believe he remained invested in his previous funds.
However it accepted it didnt tell Mr B he didnt need to remain in his current investments 
while his complaint proceeded. It said the first opportunity he had to be aware of the move 
was Aegons email of 8 November 2020. It accepted that had it provided correct information 
he could have moved to FAD following his appointment on 25 November 2020. It didnt think 
he would have changed his retirement date to 75. It should have told him earlier that he 
didnt need to wait for the complaint outcome before proceeding. It felt it was reasonable to 
cover the loss from when it was reasonable to move into FAD compared to when he did on 
18 March 2021 and pay compensation for misleading information. Mr B had a further 
appointment with Aegon Assist on 1 February and the process completed on 18 March. If it 
added that time to the first appointment on 25 November 2020 it would have completed by 
14 January 2020. It had no evidence he remained in the lifestyle funds after his selected 
retirement date.
It calculated his loss due to the delay. There was a loss of around £4,800 but also a gain of 
around £935 on moving into FAD later, so the net loss was around £3,900.  It also added 
interest to the amount of his TFC as if it had been paid in early January in the amount of 
£35.26. It paid Mr B £3,939.09 plus a further £400.00 for trouble.
The Investigator thought Aegon had resolved his complaint in a fair manner and he wasnt 
going to ask them to do anything more. He was satisfied that Mr B would always have been 
moved into the retirement fund due to his retirement date and investment strategy selected 
on inception of the plan. He said that because his 74th birthday marked the end of the six-
year glidepath to retirement. At that point he would move entirely into the retirement fund in 
accordance with the investment strategy selected at the inception of the policy. The 
retirement date selected on his application was 74. He was given £100 in vouchers for the 
delay in his complaint. He then complained again about the delay in moving into FAD due to 
the first complaint. Aegon accepted this and paid him for the loss based on completion on 14 
January versus 18 March. He felt this plus interest of £32.56 and a further £400 for trouble 
and upset was fair and reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that what he saw on screen re his investments led him to believe 
there was no change in investments and would continue until told otherwise. Had this not 
been the case the investment change should have been shown in around the time of his 
birthday and he would then have moved into FAD and taken TFC urgently. Instead he wasnt 
aware of the change at all. When he became aware, he delayed moving into FAD because 
he thought there was a mistake and didnt want to jeopardise his complaint. Aegon has 
compensated him for the delay back to early January but had not provided calculations, he 
said the compensation of £400 was insignificant when compared to the loss. It also didnt 
reflect the fact that Aegons website showed incorrect investments which cemented his 
assumption and mistake. The delay denied him the option to change investments sooner to 
protect himself from loss.
He said he always understood he had a target retirement date for illustrative purposes rather 
than being a set-in stone actual retirement date. He also thought he should be able to rely on 
written communication from Aegon after the 2012 projections. He was told he could remain 
in current funds and there was no indication a change had taken place at his selected 
retirement age. Had he known there had been a change in September he would have moved 
urgently to investigate switching funds to something balanced that would outperform gilt type funds. 
Mr B was surprised the investigator didnt find any fault in the period from his retirement date 
to 14 January 2020. Aegon replied to his complaint in November 2020 demonstrating their 
fault. It was illogical to say Aegon and its staff could send emails and correspondence 
confirming he was invested in funds they later said he wasnt invested in. This was totally 
misleading and a false representation which he would rely on to make investment decisions. 
If that was right Aegon must not owe him any duty of care for the financial information it 
provided. 
Aegons communication on 11 August 2020 confirmed he was able to remain in the same 
pre-retirement age funds and that he did remain in them. This must vary any terms as he 
relied on those statements. Aegon must be estopped from denying them. He was 
comfortable to remain in the original funds. 
When he checked his fund on 8 November 2020 it showed him still invested in the same 
original funds and no note to show a change at his retirement age. His email of 12 October 
asked to stay in the fund. Aegon expressly confirmed this in its reply to that email on 12 
October 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that Aegon has acted in a fair and reasonable manner and I am not 
making any further direction against it. I have set out below my reasons for reaching this 
conclusion.
There are several issues that I need to consider. I have taken each issue in turn. 
Change in investments
I have considered the investment switch that took place at Mr Bs retirement age to move him 
from lifestyle funds into retirement funds. I dont think Aegon did anything  wrong in making 
the change and I dont think it needed his consent to do so. I say that for the following 
reasons.
I have seen Mr Bs application to join the Aegon Group Personal Pension Plan 
(GPPP). This shows the selected investment funds. 
I have seen the Key Information Documents for both funds. They both refer to a two-
stage investment process called life styling. They indicate a six-year glidepath to his 
selected retirement date to move into the retirement funds.
The application form shows his selected a retirement age.
I have also seen terms applicable to the policy. Section 4.5 says
Lifestyle funds
The ARC insured funds include funds that we designate lifestyle funds. The purpose 
of the lifestyle fund is to move your investment into the retirement fund at a particular 
date. This date is the retirement age that is specified when you open your AEGON 
SIPP.So it seems to me that the change in investment at his retirement age was always intended 
and was the basis upon which his investments were set up. On that basis Mr B didnt need 
to provide any consent or authorisation for Aegon to do what it did. So I dont think Aegon 
did anything wrong in that respect.
When was the change made?
I have seen screenshots from the day before Mr Bs selected retirement date that show the 
original funds with about £41,000 in each and a total value of around £82,000. 
The day after shows £0 in the funds selected on application in 2012 and around £41,000 in 
each of  two retirement funds.  The total value is around £82,000.
Mr B argues that the changes were made retrospectively. But I have seen copies of internal 
screenshots of information provided by Aegon (which I have also sent to Mr B). These show 
not just the effective date of the change in investments but also when the change was 
actioned including the batch number for the change and the time it was acted on. So on 
balance based on the evidence presented it seems to me that the change in investments did 
take place at his retirement date and not retrospectively.
Did Mr B know the change was made?
Mr B argues he wasnt aware of the change until 11 November. He said he checked his 
investments regularly and up until early November 2020 no change was shown. He cannot 
provide screen shot to support this because, quite reasonably he didnt think he was going to 
need to provide them for this complaint. 
Mr B complained on 11 November 2020 about the drop in value. He said he logs on to his 
pension summary which confirms Total Fund Value, Plan Number and the date of access. 
From that screen he drills down to see his investment summary which confirms the funds he 
is invested in, which he said until 8 November showed him in the two lifestyle funds and not 
the retirement funds. 
I asked Aegon for records of Mr Bs log on dates and times to its system between his 
birthday and early November 2020. Unfortunately it said it no longer had records so it isnt 
possible to validate when Mr B logged into check his investments.
I have seen a sample copy of the letters that would have been sent to Mr B at 7 years, 4 
years and one month prior to retirement. The 7 year and 4-year letter talks about the 
glidepath to his selected retirement date. Aegon have not been able to provide confirmation 
that these were sent as this would have been done before Mr B was moved to the new 
platform. I also asked it for evidence that the one-month letter was sent out but again it 
wasnt able to provide evidence even though this letter would have been sent after the 
change in platform. However the letter contains a clear statement about the move into the 
retirement funds. It says the following:-
Youre currently invested in the xx fund through your xx account. As you are 
approaching your selected retirement date of xx, your investments will soon be 
moving into the (retirement fund). This is an automated process and youll remain in 
the retirement fund until you tell us what you want to do with your retirement savings.
While I cannot be certain that the letter was sent I have no reason to doubt that it was. 
However I accept that Mr B may not have received it if it was lost in the post.
The letter contained other information about what to do and where to find information. But Mr B has not been able to confirm receipt of the letter. However it does seem he was aware of 
the glidepath as in an email in October 2020 (considered below) he mentions this.
He accepted that Aegon had sent him letters showing an assumed retirement date. But he 
thought this was an illustrative target date used to extrapolate fund values with no detail of 
the switching into safer asset allocation of his funds alone. 
I have considered whether there is any evidence to show that the online information was not 
updated such that his regular investment checks didnt show the change. Just because the 
switch was made doesnt mean that it was visible to Mr B. Aegon says if he had inspected 
his policy online this would have been clear. But Mr B maintains he checked the policy 
regularly and that the first time he noticed the switch was in early November due to a drop in 
value. 
It seems Mr B didnt know that the change had been made until November. But I think he 
was aware a change might be made. I say that because he has confirmed he knew he had 
selected a lifestyle fund, the fund terms and policy documents ( I considered above) are 
clear this is what will happen and he asks about it in an email in October. 
I understand this is frustrating for Mr B but I dont have any other evidence to show that 
Aegon made an error nor that the online information wasnt up to date. I do have evidence to 
show the change should have happened and did happen at the time it was supposed to. So 
while I dont doubt Mr Bs evidence that he became aware in November that his investments 
had changed I cant hold Aegon responsible for any loss between his birthday and the date 
Aegon has agreed to pay for his loss. I say that because on balance of the evidence 
available to me, I cannot reasonably conclude it made an error even though Mr B says the 
online information was not updated.
Misrepresentation
Mr B also says that he has relied on what Aegon told him at the time.
When I asked Mr B about the records Aegon produced to show when the transaction was 
processed he said that it was not visible on his Pension statement until 11 November 2020. 
Aegons staff and what he saw of the website contradicted the switch and meant they 
misrepresented the situation to him. He said he then relied on these statements. He said this 
meant he was out of the market from his birthday until 15 January 2021 not just from the 
date of the meeting with the assist team in November 2020 that started the FAD process. 
Had he known he would have looked at alternative funds
Mr B say he was led to believe that he could stay in the funds he was in, which he believed 
to be the one he selected at the outset and not the retirement funds he later became aware 
he had been moved into. But I dont agree.
I say that for several reasons:-
In 2019 his pension was moved from Aegon pension to Aegons new platform and 
illustrations were based on an annuity purchase at his selected retirement date and 
the impact of charges at the end of year 1 and 2 which would have been in 2021, well 
after his selected retirement date. The letter made very clear the projections were 
illustrative.
But I dont think that meant the investments would not change at his retirement date 
just that the projections were based on his current funds.He said he had discussed drawdown in August 2020 but Aegon did not say any 
change in his investments would take place. It even said that if he took a partial lump 
sum the rest of the money you dont take stays in the current plan, for you to decide 
what to do with it at a later stage.
I would say that a comment that the rest of the money stays in the current plan does 
not mean it remains in the same investments merely that it stays in the same 
investment wrapper. So I dont think this provides any express confirmation that there 
wont be a change.
11 August call
Mr B called Aegon in August 2020. Aegon say he was able to remain invested in his 
current funds. But I think this was correct at the time as this was prior to his 
nominated retirement date and the change had not taken place. So I dont think it 
varied the terms as Mr B suggests, I appreciate it did not at that time warn him about 
the impending change in his investments but that was not directly the subject of the 
conversation and I dont think it needed to do so to answer his questions.
The retirement options pack 25 October 2020 gives a value but no details of the 
investment.
12 October 2020 Mr B emails Aegon. He says he asked to stay in the fund and that 
Aegon expressly confirmed this in its reply to that email on 12 October 2020. 
This is what he said 
I understand the 75% balance of the fund may be invested in different funds to those 
invested in currently. Could you please confirm whether the 75% balance can 
continue in the same funds or are they transferred to different funds and what are 
those. Presumably if not transferred at this time, they can be in the future.
3/ Could you please confirm the current fund charges and if the 75% balance is to be 
transferred to other funds, what charges will apply to those other funds (and of 
course whether any different charges will apply to the current funds if continued).
6/ I always understood the current funds to be lifestyle funds whereby as I draw 
closer to retirement a portion of those investments will be moved to Bonds and/or 
Fixed Interest.
Consequently what is the current fund asset allocation in respect of my holding when 
compared with the current general fund asset allocation. 
13 October 2020 Aegon replies setting out various options but does not specifically 
answer the question re remaining in the same investments. So he cannot have relied 
on this. It then answered the questions further in its reply of 8 November 2020..
8 November email from client support.
Mr B said Could you please confirm the current fund charges and if the 75% balance 
is to be transferred to other funds, what charges will apply to those other funds (and 
of course whether any different charges will apply to the current funds if continued).
Aegon replies to say that The current fund charges are as follows:SE Univrsl Lifestyle Coll 2020 ARC  0.11%
Aegon 5050Bd&Eq LFS 2020 ARC  0.06%
I think this does imply that these are his current funds which was wrong. 
Aegon accepts it should have corrected that he was not invested in those funds. But 
by then it is days until he realises. Even if Mr B relied on this statement I dont think it 
makes a difference to his loss. I say that because this statement was many weeks 
after the investment switch so he cannot have been relying on this in the time 
between the switch and this reply. Further even if he did rely from this date onwards 
it would not affect his loss as it is already calculated on the basis that he would have 
moved investments after the meeting with the assist team in November 2020. 
11 November 2020
I have listened to a call with Mr B on 11 November 2020. Mr B had been having 
difficulty accessing the investment link and the adviser attempts to help him with this. 
He is told that to move into FAD he must first have an appointment with the assist 
team. It then takes a further 6 to 8 weeks to move into FAD. He is told that following 
his move to retire there are only 5 funds that he can move into. The adviser also 
discussed moving into cash and said she would send details. But at no point during 
the call are the actual current investment referred to at all or by name by either party, 
so I dont think it was reasonable for Mr B to assume this meant he remained 
invested as he thought at that time.
11 November 2020 email 
The email does not contain any confirmation of his current investments. 
It is clear that there has been miscommunication between the parties. But I dont think that 
the calls and emails in the period from August to November 2020 expressly confirmed there 
would not be a change in investments and I dont think Aegon made representations that Mr 
B relied on (other than to the extent I have commented on the 8 November communication).
I accept that Mr B believed his investments had not changed. But I cannot conclude that the 
information about his investments on the website was out of date as I dont have any further 
evidence to support this.
The evidence I do have shows the changes in investment took place on his birthday, that 
was always the plan and the basis upon which his investments were set up at the outset. 
This is what the fund and policy documents said and Mr B was aware of this ( I say that as 
he asks about the switch in his October email. )
So I am not upholding this part of his complaint and I cannot therefore make any award 
against Aegon in that respect.
However following the change Aegon has accepted that it should have told Mr B he could 
change his investments while it considered his complaint. I can therefore consider an award 
for financial loss and distress and inconvenience arising from that delay (but not due to the 
time between the change in his investments and the date he became alerted to the change).
Has Mr B suffered any loss
Aegon accepted it should have told him he didnt need to wait for the reply to the complaint before changing investments. Therefore his loss was comparing the move to FAD when it 
should have happened rather than when it did on 18 March. He had a second appointment 
with Aegon in February 2021 and completed on 18 March. Therefore if the first appointment 
was on 25 November the process would have been completed on 14 January. 
Aegon said it had put him back in the position he would have been in but for that mistake.
In making an award for financial loss this service would seek to put Mr B back as closely as 
possible to the position he would always have been in but for that error. Had Mr B not 
delayed the move to FAD I think it is reasonable to assume that he would have done so after 
his discussion with the assist team in November 2020. I also think it is reasonable to assume 
it would take the same length of time to implement the move as it did when he actually 
moved in early 2021. Based on the explanation provided by Aegon as to its approach to the 
loss I think it does put Mr B back as closely to the position he would have been in but for the 
mistake.
So I think the approach it has taken to compensating for his financial loss is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Distress and inconvenience. 
The purpose of an award for distress and inconvenience is not to punish Aegon but to reflect 
the impact on Mr B. I can see that it has taken some time to resolve the issues but note that 
Aegon did accept it should have advised Mr B earlier that he didnt need to delay his move to 
FAD and offered compensation. However this didnt happen immediately and it took some 
time to tell Mr B he could proceed with FAD. I think that must have been distressing and 
meant he was put to time and effort. But I think the payment of £400 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and is what I would have directed had I needed to make an award.
My final decision
I think Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon has acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman