DRN-3251904
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) treated him 
unfairly when it refused to offer him life assurance cover.
What happened
In 2020 Mr H attempted to apply for life assurance cover via an independent financial 
advisor (IFA). He sought £200,000 worth of cover over a 20 year term. He applied to several 
businesses including L&G. Based on the information in the application form, the risk was 
accepted by L&G and the policy went live.
But not long after the start of the policy Mr H reviewed his application answers and got back 
in touch with L&G to tell it about his history of mental health issues which he hadnt disclosed 
in his original application. In summary, Mr Hs mental health history is as follows:
Mr H had depression on and off between 1985 and 2012. 
Mr H has attempted suicide five times. He was hospitalised twice as a result of 
suicide attempts in 1991 and 2009. The other attempts were in 2010, 2012 and 2013 
and did not require any medical treatment. 
In 2012 Mr H was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and prescribed lithium. Mr H says 
he was misdiagnosed up until that point.
The 2013 suicide attempt occurred after Mr H stopped taking his medication. 
He went back on lithium thereafter and has had no incidents since. 
Based on this information L&G then refused to cover Mr H.
Mr H felt the refusal of cover was unfair and highlighted prejudice and discrimination against 
those with mental health issues. So, he complained to all of the insurers hed applied to and 
asked the reasons for the decline. Only the actions of L&G are being considered in this 
complaint.
As part of his complaint Mr H has raised a number of points, including:
That the insurers unfairly focused on his past, ignoring the fact there had been no 
further suicide attempts in the last seven years, and refusing to accept someone can 
turn their life around. 
The insurers refused to accept that the suicide attempts happened due to the mis-
diagnosis and incorrect medication being prescribed. Nobody can say for sure 
whether much of what happened to him might have been avoided without these 
mistakes.
He wanted peace of mind to secure the financial futures of his children in the event of 
his unexpected death.
He stressed that if a mental health condition has been correctly diagnosed and 
treated then an individual is no more of a risk than someone without a condition.
He also felt that exclusions rather than declinatures should be used by insurers so 
individuals can have some protection.
Mr H explained he wanted all of the insurers to amend their underwriting guidelines and 
philosophy to benefit others in his position now and in the future. He felt he should be offered 
cover at standard rates. 
L&G explained it had declined Mr Hs application after reviewing his disclosed medical 
history. And declined cover on the basis of the number of prior suicide attempts. It explained 
it recognised Mr H was managing things well currently but it takes a very cautious approach 
as it offers cover over a longer term and the prognosis in the future may be less clear. 
It told Mr H there were also studies which show those with a history of depression have an 
increased risk in all causes of mortality in the longer term which is why it doesnt routinely 
exclude suicide in an effort to offer cover. 
Mr H didnt agree and so brought his complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint as they thought L&G 
had provided sufficient evidence to show its declinature of the application was fair. 
Mr H disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain that my decision wont address every point or comment made by Mr H and 
L&G. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure both parties that I have 
considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our Service. But my decision 
will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. 
I can understand why Mr H wants L&G to give him, and others in a similar position, the 
opportunity to have the financial protection that a life assurance policy offers. I appreciate 
that his mental wellbeing has significantly improved since hes received the correct diagnosis 
and treatment. And I can see why it would be incredibly frustrating for past events to impact 
his current circumstances when he is in a very different place.  
Im conscious that as part of this complaint, Mr H is seeking to change L&Gs underwriting 
guidelines and philosophy. So, Id like to start by explaining that our Service doesnt regulate 
financial businesses. Instead, we investigate complaints brought to us by individual 
consumers, as an alternative to the courts. This means its not our role, for example, to direct 
businesses to change their overall underwriting philosophy. My role is to consider whether 
L&G has acted reasonably in these particular circumstances. 
Im also aware Mr H has told our Service he feels discriminated against  something I was 
very saddened to read. 
Disability is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010  that can include mental 
ill health. Generally, a person must not be treated less favourably because of their disability, 
or a reason arising from it. And  in particular circumstances - there is also a duty to make 
reasonable adjustments for those who are disabled. But the Act allows businesses to discriminate on the grounds of disability when doing 
anything in connection with insurance business  such as declining insurance. There is an 
exception under the Equality Act 2010 in such circumstances.
For the exception to apply, a business needs to show that the information relied on to 
decline insurance is relevant to the risk being assessed. And from a source on which it is 
reasonable to rely.
The Equality Act 2010 will only be relevant here if Mr Hs condition amounts to a disability as 
defined by the Act. Based on what hes told our Service, and for the purposes of this 
decision, Ive presumed that it does - but I make no finding on this point.  Also, keeping in 
mind our Services role, its not my place to conclude if L&G has acted lawfully or not - this 
would be for a court to decide. However, given the nature of Mr Hs complaint, I have taken 
into account the Equality Act 2010 when considering whether L&G has treated him fairly.
It is accepted industry practice for insurers, like L&G, to make commercial decisions about 
whether to offer cover to certain individuals based on their medical history and the risk this 
presents. Life assurance is a risk-based industry and businesses do have discretion as to 
what risks they take on. But Id expect them to treat each applicant fairly and reasonably. 
Looking at Mr Hs specific circumstances, here L&G has shown me evidence that the 
decision to decline Mr Hs application was in line with the underwriting guidance in place at 
that time. And thats important because it shows L&G is acting consistently and would treat 
other individuals with a similar history to Mr H in the same way.
Im conscious that this is precisely what Mr H thinks is unfair  that L&G is refusing to offer 
cover to people with a medical history like his. But L&G has provided evidence to show its 
underwriting philosophy is based on reliable independent research and medical information 
from reliable sources. This evidence suggests that aspects of Mr Hs medical history are 
indicators of significant potential risk based on that evidence. And L&G has made a 
commercial decision that this level of potential risk is too great for it to offer cover to Mr H. 
After carefully considering the evidence, Im satisfied its acted reasonably by relying on the 
underwriting guidance to decline Mr H insurance. 
I appreciate one of Mr Hs arguments is that his condition is now well managed, and so he 
doesnt feel that he presents a risk. He also thinks L&G should be required to obtain further 
evidence, namely to show the impact that proper management of his medical condition can 
have on this risk. But as outlined above, its not my role to instruct L&G on how to develop its 
underwriting philosophy. Here, Im satisfied L&Gs decision is based on reliable sources. 
And Ive seen no evidence to persuade me L&Gs philosophy on this risk is unreasonable or 
that it has treated Mr H unfairly.
Mr H has also questioned whether its proportionate to exclude cover entirely, rather than 
simply excluding claims on the basis of suicide. But having reviewed the evidence L&G has 
sent our Service, Im satisfied that its able to demonstrate through independent research 
that an exclusion alone wouldnt remove the significant risk posed by Mr Hs medical history. 
Given this, I dont think L&G has acted unfairly by declining cover rather than simply adding 
an exclusion. 
Due to the commercially sensitive nature of underwriting documentation, Im unfortunately 
not in a position to share this evidence with Mr H. However, Id like to reassure him Ive 
reviewed this evidence carefully when reaching my decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman