DRN-3714509
The complaint
Mr R complained that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) gave him incorrect information about
opting out of his employers pension scheme.
What happened
Mr R said that in early April 2021 he received a welcome pack from SW for his workplace
pension. He didnt want to participate and asked SW if he could opt out. It said he could and
repeated that statement many times saying he was still within the 30 day opt out time. His
employer didnt agree and that caused friction with his employer. It took a lot of time chasing
SW until it agreed it was wrong. Mr R said it had damaged his reputation with his employer
and other suppliers in the industry. He felt he might miss out on work and commission due to
this. He didnt think the £150 paid was not enough for the impact made. He felt £1,000 would
be more appropriate.
SW said it upheld his complaint. It said the opt out period began when the auto enrolment
confirmation was received from his employer or the date he received the welcome pack ,
whichever was first. He then had 30 days. The start date of the policy was 1 January 2021
which was sooner than the March date of receipt of the welcome pack. It initially offered
£100 and then increased this to £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It said it 
had
paid this.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said the following.
SW has accepted it made a mistake so I could consider an award for financial loss and
distress and inconvenience. I did not have evidence that the mistake caused Mr R any
financial loss but it was clear it caused distress and inconvenience.
In making an award for distress and inconvenience I needed to consider the impact on Mr R. 
It was not the purpose of the award to punish SW. In making such an award I needed to take 
into account what Mr R says but also how SW responded.
It was clear that SW persisted in an incorrect view for some time and this caused friction with
Mr Rs employer who did not agree with what it was saying. Had SW realised its error sooner
it would have reduced the overall impact of the mistake on Mr R and his working 
relationship. SW was the provider and in effect expert (compared to Mr R), in this context.
So I thought it was reasonable for Mr R to expect it to give him a correct answer and for it to
check its facts when the employer disagreed.
Mr R says he spent a lot of time on six separate calls, sometimes on hold for as long as 45
minutes. While I have no call records to support this, I have no reason to doubt what Mr R
has said and SW has not disputed the number of calls made and it should have records of
these.
Mr R feels that the friction caused with his employer affected his reputation. He said there
were only 3 major distributors in his area of business and everyone knew each other. He
said that an opportunity with one of them fell through due to the friction. He said it impacted
his mental health and he was unable to sleep and found it hard to concentrate. He was
unable to seek medical advice due to the pandemic.
It seemed to me that there was a very clear impact on Mr R and I could understand it was
frustrating and would cause friction with his employer that could affect his reputation.
However Mr R did find work so it did not seem to have prevented that and I had no other
evidence that there was a continuing impact. I also thought that when the mistake was 
accepted by SW it would have been clear to his employer that it was not Mr Rs fault.
However it was clear that the impact on Mr R went on for longer than the mistake as he was
concerned about the impact on his reputation and ability to find work. I find his explanation of
the impact on him in terms of mental health plausible, particularly in the context of the
pandemic and difficult access to healthcare support, at the time.
For those reasons I think the distress and upset caused was considerable and more than
one might experience in the day to day frustrations of life. Also the impact persisted even
after the mistake was corrected. For those reasons I think award of £400 would be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr R agreed with my provisional decision.
SW didnt agree. It said it didnt see how I could have disagreed with the investigators view 
when Mr R had not provided any further evidence. It said the mistake was made over a 
period of one week and it was difficult to see this caused damage to Mr Rs reputation in 
such a short time. It felt more evidence was needed to support an increase award given the 
short timescale. It said the reason it made a mistake more than once was because the date 
on the welcome pack was wrong, which it didnt know at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the comments made by SW but as I said in my provisional decision the 
impact persisted after the mistake. So even if the error lasted for only a week the impact 
would continue thereafter. Mr Rs concerns were about the impact on his reputation in the 
small business context which supplied him with his work and where everyone was known to 
each other. He said these concerns caused him mental health problems. I had no reason to 
doubt that he had such concerns and the impact this had on him. So for those reasons and 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I have not changed my mind.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct that SW should pay Mr R a total of £400 for distress and 
inconvenience. For the avoidance of doubt this award includes the £150 which I understand 
has already been paid to Mr R by SW for this complaint so SW need only pay a further £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint .I direct that Scottish Widows Limited should within 30 days of this service notifying it that Mr 
R has accepted this decision, pay Mr R a total of £400 for distress and inconvenience. For 
the avoidance of doubt this award includes the £150 which I understand has already been 
paid to Mr R by SW for this complaint so SW need only pay a further £250 if it has already 
paid £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman