DRN-2009863
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the amount of compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to 
settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside a store card.
What happened
Mrs F took out a PPI policy alongside a store card in 1996. The PPI premium was paid by 
adding it to the account balance each month, so interest was charged on it when there was a 
balance on the account. 
Mrs F complained to AXA that the PPI had been mis-sold. When AXA didnt agree to uphold 
her complaint, she brought it to this service.
Our adjudicator said they thought the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. AXA agreed to 
do this and offered £475.12 after tax in compensation to settle the complaint. AXA didnt hold 
full data for this account, which closed in October 2000. Its full data records for all customer 
accounts only start from August 2005. But it did have some summary figures on its system 
including the dates the account was opened and closed, the total PPI premiums added to 
the account and the total interest charged to the account. So AXA based its offer on this 
data.
Mrs F wasnt happy with the offer as she felt it should be more and she requested a full 
breakdown of how AXA had reached its offer amount. When Mrs F remained unhappy with 
AXA she brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what AXA offered was fair and when Mrs F didnt agree the complaint 
was referred to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. AXA had agreed to review its 
offer and made a new offer. I explained in that provisional decision why I thought what it had 
now offered was fair. 
Mrs F has responded in detail to my provisional decision and I have reviewed and 
considered everything that has been submitted to reach my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has agreed to uphold Mrs Fs s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Therefore, I 
am only considering what is fair compensation for AXA to pay to settle Mrs Fs complaint. 
I set out in full detail in my provisional decision why I had reached the findings and outcome 
about the offer AXA had made. In summary this explained: -
AXA made its offer of compensation using a standard letter which indicated it had full 
records of accounts from August 2005 onwards, but not full account data for the 
account before this date. As Mrs Fs account had closed in 2000 this information 
about data post 2005 did not apply in the circumstances of Mrs Fs account. 
 
The PPI was sold in May 1996 at the same time as Mrs F opened her store card, and 
the account closed in October 2000. AXA does not have full records of the account 
and it isnt legally required to keep records for more than six years old. AXA has 
some limited data about the account on its computer systems. This data showed 
when the account opened and closed. It also provided total amounts of the 
purchases ever charged to the account; the total amount of interest ever charged to 
the account; the total amount of PPI premiums ever charged to the account; and the 
total amount of payments made to the account. These totals are called the lifetime 
data. AXA used this lifetime data to work out what Mrs F had paid for the PPI, 
including interest caused by the PPI being on the card. 
The lifetime data showed a total of £118.86 had been charged to the account for PPI 
premiums and AXA calculated that some £116.19 of the total interest charged to the 
account had been caused by the PPI. As the total interest ever charged for all 
purchases was shown as £141.71, the amount AXA calculated as caused by the PPI 
seems generous. This all indicated the total cost of the PPI Mrs F paid for the PPI 
was £235.05. AXA worked out compensatory interest on this came to £300.09 before 
tax. So the total compensation it offered to Mrs F was £535.14 before tax.
 
Using the lifetime data is normally considered a fair approach if it is the only data 
available. Mrs F hasnt got any statements from the account and no evidence of the 
actual account data that could be considered more accurate and be used to work out 
the PPI costs. Where there is only limited data available, that has to be used to work 
out a reasonable and fair offer. 
In this case there was a slight discrepancy with the lifetime data figures. The total 
payments made to the account exceeded the total amounts shown as the purchases, 
PPI and all interest charged to the account. AXA could not explain this discrepancy. It 
said that the lifetime data figure for payments was drawn from a different system and 
could be inaccurate. But as it had no other data on which to calculate an offer, it was 
reasonable to use the lifetime premiums for the PPI and the total interest figure, 
which were both directly relevant to the PPI costs. 
I considered that it could be any of the lifetime figures that may be inaccurate. 
However, these lifetime data figures are the only guide available to calculate in any 
way what the costs of the PPI may have been and what the compensation amount 
should be. 
AXA was asked to reconsider its offer, taking into account the unexplained 
discrepancy in the figures and AXA agreed to make a new offer in the specific 
circumstances of this case. So AXA took the lifetime data amount shown for the PPI 
premiums and increased it by 50%, so indicting that the possible total premiums 
charged for the PPI could be £178.29. It then worked out the interest caused by 
these premiums whilst part of the account would have been £124.13, giving a total 
cost for the PPI of £302.42. It then worked out the 8% compensatory interest on this 
amount was £419.90 before tax. This gave a new offer of £722.32 gross, which after 
tax of £83.98, gave a total to be paid of £638.34. So AXA was now offering 50% 
more for the total cost of the PPI premiums than was shown on its database and an 
increase in the interest that may have been caused by the PPI. Without any clear evidence of the exact figures charged, I indicated in my provisional 
decision that I could not see any other reasonable approach was possible to work out 
the compensation due. An amount had to be estimated in some way and increasing 
the only figure available for the PPI premiums by 50% seemed very fair. Therefore, 
my provisional decision found that the offer now made of £638.34 was fair.
Mrs F had also raised an issue about excess commission and profit share. I indicated 
in my provisional decision that this commission forms part of the PPI premiums. 
Therefore, if all the premiums paid were refunded, this included any commission 
amounts included in the premiums. So nothing was due in this complaint for any 
excess commission.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs F has made numerous submissions. Much of 
what I have summarised above about what I said in my provisional decision addresses most 
the issues raised. However, I shall briefly provide some comment again on the points made 
by Mrs F in response to my provisional decision and cover any new issues that have been 
raised.
The commission element of the PPI premiums is refunded when the full premiums are 
refunded following a complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So there is nothing more to 
consider about the amounts of commission that may have been paid as part of the PPI 
premiums paid by Mrs F. 
As has been explained, both by our adjudicator and myself, the 2005 date indicated by AXA 
as the date from which it held all data, was in a standard template letter sent out with all 
offers to customers, some of whom may have had accounts open after 2005. This date is not 
relevant to Mrs Fs complaint as the account was closed in 2000. This letter from AXA also 
indicated that it did not hold full data for accounts before 2005. That does apply to Mrs Fs 
case and the only data AXA holds about this account is the basic computer entries, not the 
full statement data. So AXA has used the data is does have to make a reasonable offer to 
compensate Mrs F for the mis-sale. AXA does not have data about Mrs F account after 2005 
as the account was no longer open.
There is no other information available to work out what Mrs F paid for the PPI whilst it was 
active on the account. AXA has used the only data available and is not deliberately avoiding 
paying what Mrs F considers the correct compensation. The correct compensation, where 
there is no full statement data, has to be based on what information is available. AXA has 
some lifetime figures and the amount shown for what was paid for the PPI has been used as 
the cost of the PPI premiums. In addition, AXA has offered an additional 50% of this lifetime 
data figure as extra compensation for the PPI costs, because in this case it is possible some 
of the lifetime figures may be inaccurate. Although it is not certain that the figure for the 
premium amount is inaccurate. So what AXA has now offered is very reasonable and fair 
based on all the evidence available.
Mrs F has in her response to my provisional decision indicated that she defaulted on 
payments to her account and the debt that remained outstanding on the card account was 
sold to a third party. This has never been raised before and I have seen no evidence about 
this. 
If Mrs F did default on payments to the account and owed money to AXA for the account 
balance, then she may not have paid back to AXA all of the costs charged to the account for 
the PPI. And she wouldnt have been out of pocket until the full debt was paid, if ever it was. 
Therefore, Mrs F may be getting paid back PPI premiums that were not repaid by her to AXA and also being paid compensatory interest from an earlier date than should be used. So she 
may be getting back more compensation than she should. 
If a debt was sold, then AXA has no further interest in it and so it is paying back the full costs 
of the PPI to Mrs F, even if some did remain in the sold debt. AXA is then out of pocket for 
anything unpaid by Mrs F, which may include some of the PPI cost. But Mrs F is being paid 
back the full amount of the PPI costs so may be getting more than she ever paid. So I think 
what AXA has offered is fair, as any sale of a debt has not negatively affected what AXA is 
offering as compensation for the mis-sold PP.
Mrs F has raised a point about how much AXA received for the sale of the debt. That is 
totally unrelated to how much compensation should be paid for the mis-sold PPI and does 
not affect the offer made by AXA. I would only add for Mrs Fs general information that when 
debts are sold only a very small percentage of the debt amount is paid to the business that is 
selling a debt, sometimes just 1%. The business selling the debt always makes a loss as a 
high proportion of the debt amount still remains unpaid after any amount is paid for it on sale 
to a third party.
Mrs F has also stated that based on some of the figures available she thinks overpaid the 
account by some £655.86. AXA has indicated that this lifetime payment figure may not be 
accurate. If a debt was sold relating to this account, as has now been indicated by Mrs F, it 
is difficult to see how Mrs F could have overpaid the account. The account information 
available at the time any debt was sold would have been accurate. 
However, in this decision I am only considering what is fair compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI and not looking at any other issues about the account. If Mrs F has issues unrelated to 
the PPI compensation, such as overpayments or sale of debts, she would have to take them 
up separately. 
In summary, I have taken into account all the comments raised by Mrs F in response to my 
provisional decision. But I remain satisfied that based on all the evidence and information 
available, what AXA has now offered in compensation is fair and I am not changing the 
findings made in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am satisfied that the offer AXA France IARD has made 
of £638.34 after tax, for the PPI mis-sold to Mrs F, is fair and I am not upholding the 
complaint that any further compensation is due. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman