DRN-4338720
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Advance Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) unfairly restricted their account shortly after it was opened.
What happened
B is represented by its director Mr A.
In January 2023 £7,000 was deposited in Bs Cashplus account. The next day the account 
was restricted and Cashplus asked for proof of Mr As identification and address, as well as 
to provide some more information about the business. Mr A sent information to Cashplus, 
but the account remained blocked.
Cashplus later asked B for proof of entitlement to the £7,000. When Mr A contacted 
Cashplus he was misadvised that no further information was required. 
B raised a complaint, saying they wanted the account closed and the funds returned. 
Cashplus responded to say that the restriction was in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations, and they were entitled to ask for further information. But they accepted the 
review had taken longer than theyd advised it would, and that Mr A was given incorrect 
information. They offered B £25 in recognition of this.
The restriction was removed on 6 March 2023.
B referred the complaint to our service. Initially our investigator didnt think Cashplus needed 
to do anything further. But after reflection they thought the complaint should succeed. They 
said they were satisfied that Cashplus had unnecessarily caused delays, meaning the 
account had been restricted longer than necessary. They recommended Cashplus pay B 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience. They also suggested 8% simple interest on the 
balance of the funds held for the duration of delays.
B accepted this outcome, but Cashplus didnt agree. They felt considering the length of time 
for the delays this was excessive. As no agreement could be reached the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. After considering all the evidence I issued a provisional decision 
which said:
The investigator was right to say that Cashplus, like all financial businesses in the UK, have 
numerous legal and regulatory obligations when providing accounts to consumers. These 
obligations mean that, on occasion, they may need to restrict accounts to carry out reviews. 
There is provision for this in the terms of Bs Cashplus account.
Cashplus arent under any specific obligation to explain to B why theyve decided to review 
an account, and in this case have decided not to. Ive considered the reasoning theyve 
provided to our service, and Im satisfied that the reasons for carrying out a review were 
reasonable. I also consider the information theyve asked for from B to be reasonable, and 
not overly onerous for B to provide.
However, when carrying out a review I would expect a business to carry it out as quickly and 
efficiently as possible. In this case Mr A provided the information on behalf of B promptly 
when he was asked. Cashplus have accepted in their submissions to our service that they 
didnt review this information within their own internal timeframes.
Im also minded that the proof of entitlement for the funds paid in could have been asked for 
during the initial information request. It would have been known that this information would 
be needed.
So, Im satisfied that there have been unnecessary delays in the review. It follows then that 
Cashplus have blocked Bs funds for longer than is necessary. My understanding is that B 
submitted their relevant information on 27 January, but after the close of business for the 
week. So, they wouldnt have been picked up until 30 January. I see 10 working days as a 
reasonable amount of time to review the documentation, which is in line with what Cashplus 
have told us about their own expectation. I would see 13 February as the latest Id expect 
the review to have been completed. This means the funds were held for three weeks longer 
than I consider reasonable. 
B has claimed that they werent able to pay employees and other expenses during this time 
but hasnt been able to demonstrate any specific losses for me to consider. But these are 
funds B has been without. I cant say for certain what B would have done with them, had 
they been available. But I consider it appropriate to award 8% interest on these funds for the 
period of the delay, to reflect the cost of being deprived of these funds.
On considering the non-financial loss, I accept it would have been inconvenient for B to 
suddenly find they couldnt access their funds. I cant consider the distress caused to Mr A 
personally, as the complainant here is B  a separate legal entity. Im also minded that the 
underlying issue is the block and review, which Ive found to be reasonable. But the 
unreasonable delay in releasing the funds added to the inconvenience caused. Its also 
accepted Cashplus misadvised B about whether further information was needed. Taking in 
to account the length of the delay and the incorrect advice given, I consider £100 to be an 
appropriate amount of compensation.
Both B and Cashplus responded to the provisional decision to say they accepted the 
outcome and had nothing further to add. As such, it now falls to me to issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their quick responses, and Im pleased that both could agree with the 
proposed settlement. As such I see no reason to depart from my findings in the provisional 
decision, and I direct Cashplus to settle the complaint as suggested.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance held for the period 13 February 
2023 to 6 March 2023.
Pay B £100 compensation for the delays and service.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman