DRN-1637226
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Although 
the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mr P took out a store card in January 1997. At the time he was not sold a PPI policy. 
PPI was added to the store card following a telephone call in July 1997.
The PPI cost £1 per month for every £100 outstanding on the card balance. It wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance if Mr P was unable to work due to ill-
health, an accident or if he lost his job. This would continue until either Mr P returned to work 
or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mr P that the PPI was optional. 
Mr P was sold the PPI during a telephone call. After so many years it isnt surprising that 
there is no call recording available. I cant know what Mr P was told during the call, but he 
had held the card without PPI for six months. So, I think Mr P would have known he didnt 
have to agree to add PPI to the account. And the PPI premiums would likely have appeared 
on Mr Ps statements after the telephone call.
After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mr P didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this after so many years.I dont think AXA advised Mr P to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for him. But AXA did have to give Mr P clear information so 
that he could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it is 
unlikely the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need 
to decide whether or not Mr P would have changed his mind about buying the policy if he 
had been given better or clearer information. I cant say he would have done. I say this 
because.
Mr P was eligible for the PPI based on his circumstances at the time of the sale. So, hed 
have been able to make a claim if he needed to.
If Mr P couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every month 
until he returned to work or the balance was cleared. And it wouldve paid the same benefit if 
Mr P lost his job.
Mr P would have received some sick pay from his employer if he became too unwell to work. 
But the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to his sick pay. And potentially it could have 
paid a benefit for longer than his full sick pay would last. So, I still think Mr P could have 
found the policy useful, particularly if he had been unable to work for a prolonged period.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mr P wasnt affected by these. For 
instance, Mr P has told us he didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mr P was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to his account. And I think that even if Mr P had been given 
clear information about the policy hed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman