DRN-4057600
The complaint
Mrs K complains about ReAssure Limiteds refusal to pay her benefit under a pension. The 
pension was in the name of the late Mr C. 
What happened
Mrs K was previously married to Mr C. After Mr Cs death, ReAssure decided to pay death 
benefit under the pension to Mr Cs surviving spouse, rather than Mrs K. It was aware that 
Mrs K was the nominated beneficiary, but it said this was not legally binding. Unhappy with 
this, Mrs K brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought ReAssure had acted 
reasonably. 
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme rules say that on the death of a member, ReAssure will pay benefit to an 
eligible recipient. The below people are potentially eligible to receive benefit under the rules:
- Relatives
- Dependants
- Any person nominated 
- Any person entitled under a will to interest in the estate
- Personal representatives
However, ReAssure has discretion over where it pays death benefit under a pension policy. 
As our investigator has explained, this is so that the benefit doesnt usually form part of the 
deceaseds estate (and therefore will be free from inheritance tax). 
In making the decision not to pay the benefit to Mrs K, ReAssure took into consideration a 
number of factors. Mr C had named Mrs K as his nominated beneficiary in 1989. However, 
since then, Mr C and Mrs K had got divorced and he had remarried. There was no pension 
sharing order. Mr C had no will, and so ReAssure considered intestacy laws which say that 
the surviving spouse would be the first to inherit. It also took into account that Mrs K had not 
been financially dependent on Mr C before his death.  
Ultimately, given the substantial change in Mr Cs circumstances since he had named Mrs K 
as his intended beneficiary, ReAssure decided to pay the benefit to Mr Cs surviving spouse. 
Whilst I can understand Mrs Ks disappointment about this, I see nothing wrong with 
ReAssure exercising its discretion in this way. 
Mrs K says that Mr C had been in touch with ReAssure in 2015, and hadnt changed 
anything under the policy. However, ReAssure has confirmed that before it was notified of 
Mr Cs death, it had not been contacted about the pension since 2002 (and that contact was 
not made by Mr C). 
Mrs K also says that Mr C hadnt included the pension in their divorce settlement, and so she 
wants ReAssure to address the legal aspect of it being a hidden asset. However, its not for 
ReAssure (or this service) to make a finding on this, and so Mrs K may wish to seek 
independent legal advice about the matter.
As our investigator has said, ReAssure misspelt Mrs Ks name on two occasions. This 
appears to have been an administration error, but given the minimal impact to Mrs K, I dont 
require ReAssure to do anything here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman