DRN-2840595
The complaint
Ms P says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 that 118 118 Money 
provided to Ms P on 18 July 2014. The monthly repayments were £241.26 and the total 
repayable was £5,790.24.
Ms P says 118 118 Money didnt complete proper checks or consider her signs of 
over- indebtedness.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint and thought 118 118 Money wasnt wrong 
to have given the loan. Ms P disagreed saying she had no choice but to use high interest 
lenders, but the company knew she couldnt really afford the loan. And so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching 
questions that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ps 
complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms P would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Ms P wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Ms Ps ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms P. In 
practice this meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Ms P undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on   
Ms P. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a 
proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some 
information from Ms P. It asked for details of her monthly income, her employment status, 
her housing and living costs and her existing card and loan repayments. It carried out a 
credit check to understand her credit history and to verify her credit commitments. It 
asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. Based on these 
checks 118 118 Money concluded Ms P would have around £610 disposable income 
each month and so thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and purpose of the loan, and 
the stage in the lending relationship. And I think 118 118 Money made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it had gathered. Ill explain why.
Ms P declared a net monthly income of £1,650 and outgoings of £795. 118 118 Money 
could see from its credit check that Ms P had £6,601 of debt at the time split across a 
loan, credit cards and a home credit account. All her accounts were within their credit 
limit and she was up-to-date with all contractual payments. There was no adverse data 
such as arrears, defaults or County Court Judgments. She wasnt using an overdraft 
facility on her current account. So I think it was reasonable for 118 118 Money to 
conclude that it was most likely the loan would be sustainable affordable for Ms P, 
particularly as she had said she was using the loan to settle some of her existing debts.
It follows I dont think 118 118 Money was irresponsible to lend to Ms P.
In response to the investigators assessment Ms P sent in copies of bank statements. 
But these are in a third-partys name and are for some of the months of 2019. So even 
if I had found 118 118 Money ought to have done better checks (which I did not) these 
statements could not be used to show what it might have seen. It follows this new 
information does not change my conclusion.Ive also thought about whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly in some other way 
and I havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ps complaint. Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman