DRN-3983574
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to decline 
his claim under his home emergency insurance. 
What happened
Mr R says he noticed a problem with his central heating, so he called a contractor  who    
Mr R says he uses for plumbing and heating issues. Mr R says the contractor noticed water 
leaking from the boiler and explained the heat exchanger was beyond repair. Mr R says the 
contractor switched off the boiler which meant he had no heating or hot water. He says the 
contractor informed him he would contact him with a quote for a replacement boiler. Mr R 
says he called RSAs claims helpline several times the following day, but the phone wasnt 
answered. Mr R says he called several times over the next few days but again couldnt get 
through to anyone. Mr R says he was then contacted by the contractor with a quote which he 
agreed and asked him to attend to fit the replacement boiler, which he did the same day.   
Mr R says he continued to call RSA and managed to speak with their claims helpline about a 
week later when they registered the claim. Mr R says he felt RSA didnt believe him about 
his attempted contact, so he complained about this as well as the delay in dealing with the 
claim.  
RSA responded and explained they located a call Mr R made to them the day after 
discovering the problem where he was on hold for less than two minutes before terminating 
the call. RSA said the next call was over a week later, by which point Mr R had already 
replaced the boiler. RSA said the policy excludes any costs incurred prior to notification to 
RSA and the Boiler Replacement Contribution is only applicable where RSAs appointed 
engineer has deemed the boiler beyond economical repair. RSA said they arent aware of 
any extenuating circumstances which prevented Mr R from contacting RSA and the one 
attempt before replacing the boiler wasnt a reasonable attempt to get through to their claims 
team. So they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R referred his complaint to our service as he 
feels its unfair for RSA to refuse to pay a contribution towards his replacement boiler. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought RSA had unfairly declined Mr Rs 
claim and recommended they contribute £500 towards the boiler replacement and pay £150 
compensation. Mr R agreed but RSA disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided RSA with details of the complaint being made against 
them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its important that 
we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In this case, while 
RSA have disagreed with our investigators view and referred to their complaint response, 
they havent provided the evidence to support their account. Im satisfied weve taken 
sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to provide the evidence requested. 
I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mr R to have to 
continue waiting for an answer to his complaint.   
My starting point is Mr Rs home emergency policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, for cover to apply, the situation that arises must fall within the definition 
of an emergency under each respective section of cover in the policy. It defines a contractor 
as A qualified person approved and instructed by [policy administrator] to undertake 
emergency work. Under a section headed Claims it says, Please note that if you should 
engage the services of a contractor prior to making contact with the [policy administrator] 
any costs that you incur are not covered by this insurance. Mr Rs policy includes a Boiler 
Replacement Contribution cover which provides a limit of £500 towards the cost of a 
replacement boiler. The terms and conditions say, Subject to acceptance of a claimwhere 
your boiler has failed and is deemed by the contractor and us to be uneconomical to repair, 
we shall contribute (upon production of an original receipt for payment) towards the cost of a 
brand new like for like replacement. 
Theres no dispute between the parties that Mr R didnt register a claim before the 
installation of the replacement boiler or that the contractor who replaced the boiler wasnt 
appointed by RSA. RSA have declined the claim on the basis the policy excludes any costs 
incurred prior to notification to RSA and the Boiler Replacement Contribution is only 
applicable where RSAs appointed engineer has deemed the boiler beyond economical 
repair. So, in declining the claim, Im aware RSA have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Rs policy. 
But I also need to think about whether Mr R has been treated fairly here. And, I dont think 
he has. Mr Rs testimony is that he made several calls to RSA over a period of a few days 
prior to the boiler being replaced. And, although RSA say they only have evidence of Mr R 
making one call during this time, theyve provided no evidence showing this. I think its also 
important to note that I havent received any evidence of call records from Mr R showing he 
made several calls to RSA prior to instructing the contractor to replace the boiler. So, in the 
absence of evidence from either party demonstrating how many calls were made, Ive 
thought carefully about the information I do have. 
The facts show Mr R has breached one of the terms and conditions here as the boiler wasnt 
declared uneconomical to repair by RSAs own contractor  so this doesnt strictly meet the 
terms relevant and necessary for the Boiler Replacement Contribution to apply. That said, 
Ive considered relevant provisions of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) here. Firstly, ICOBS: 8.1.1 R says an insurer must not unreasonably reject a claim 
and, secondly, ICOBS: 8.1.2A G sets out the circumstances where it would be unreasonable 
for an insurer to reject a claim. This section refers to the Insurance Act 2015. The relevant 
provision which applies here is S.11 of the Insurance Act 2015 which refers to terms which 
arent relevant to the actual loss. This goes further to say: 
11. (1)This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance, 
other than a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to 
reduce the risk of one or more of the following
(a)loss of a particular kind,
(b)loss at a particular location,
(c)loss at a particular time.(2)If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not rely 
on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the contract for 
the loss if the insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3)The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the 
term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred.
Im required to take account of the law, and regulatory rules, when reaching fair and 
reasonable decisions and so its right that I take account of both ICOBS and the Insurance 
Act 2015 when reaching my decision. And, in summary, this says, if there has been non-
compliance by a customer of a term within the policy, a claim rejection by an insurer would 
be unreasonable unless the circumstances of the claim were connected to the non-
compliance of the term. 
When applying ICOBS: 8.1.2A G and S.11 of the Insurance Act 2015, its clear a loss has 
occurred and the term requiring RSAs contractor to deem the boiler beyond economical 
repair hasnt been complied with. So, RSA can only rely on Mr Rs breach of this term to 
justify their decision to decline the claim if his non-compliance has increased the risk of the 
loss which occurred. Looking at the information, I dont think thats the case here. 
Ive looked at the relevant terms applicable to the Boiler Replacement Contribution. I believe 
the main requirements for a contribution to be made under this section of the policy are for 
there to be a need for emergency work and for a qualified person to deem the boiler beyond 
economical repair. Mr R has provided a job report from the contractor who carried out the 
work. The contractor is from a company which specialises in plumbing and heating issues  
so I believe its reasonable to treat the contractor as a qualified person. 
The report goes into detail about the contractors investigation of the boiler and the specific 
problem. It refers to the condition of the heat exchanger which was causing a leak as well as 
water damage to the electrics. So, in view of this, Im persuaded by Mr Rs testimony that the 
contractor had to switch off the boiler. That being the case, Mr R says he was left with no 
heating and hot water. And, looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, it says the 
insurance covers a breakdown of the primary heating system which results in the loss of 
heating and hot water. So, Im satisfied this falls within the policys definition of an 
emergency. The report also sets out the contractors assessment that the boiler is 
unrepairable and would not be cost effective to repair  so their advice was to replace 
it. So, Im satisfied that a qualified person has deemed the boiler uneconomical to repair.   
Mr R has also provided an invoice showing the amount paid to the contractor for replacing 
the boiler. 
So, while I agree RSAs own contractor didnt deem the boiler beyond economical repair, I 
cant say this non-compliance with the term of the policy is connected to the circumstances 
of the claim. I cant see that, RSAs own contractor not examining the boiler or not deeming it 
beyond economical repair, has resulted in the loss occurring or it becoming worse. 
I acknowledge RSA, and other insurers, would want their own expert to carry out an 
examination as this would give them certainty around a boiler being unrepairable and would 
help validate a claim. But Im not persuaded Mr Rs non-compliance with the term increased 
the risk of the loss occurring in the particular circumstances of this case  or that RSAs own 
contractor not being able to examine the boiler has left reasonable doubt about the 
authenticity of the claim. I say this because, as mentioned above, the evidence shows a 
suitable expert has examined the boiler and deemed it beyond economical repair. In 
accordance with ICOBS and the Insurance Act 2015, RSA is unable to exclude or limit their liability under the policy. I see no reason to depart from the law here and as such Im not 
persuaded RSA have applied their terms fairly when considering Mr Rs claim.   
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality. So, taking into account all the information, I think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for RSA to pay Mr R the Boiler Replacement Contribution limit of £500. I think 
its also fair and reasonable in the circumstances for RSA to pay Mr R £150 compensation 
for the upset and inconvenience caused by the decision to decline his claim. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that RSA have unfairly declined Mr Rs claim for the boiler contribution, 
so they should pay Mr R the £500 limit. RSA should also pay Mr R £150 compensation for 
the upset and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman