DRN-1761372
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) switched part of 
her pension to a different fund without her authorisation.
What happened
Mrs L held a stakeholder pension policy with L&G.
 
In June 2019 Mrs L says she became aware that over £70,000 of her pension funds held 
with L&G had been switched from being invested in one fund to a different fund. This was 
almost half of her total pension fund held with L&G. The switch occurred in October 2018.
Mrs L contacted L&G to ask who had given the instructions to switch the funds and how 
authority was given. L&G responded by saying the switch had been processed online.
Mrs L was unhappy as she said she hadnt instructed L&G to switch the funds. And so, Mrs 
L made a complaint. 
In its response L&G said its systems support team looked into what happened and 
confirmed the transaction came from Mrs Ls online account. L&G also gave a precise time 
and date of the transaction. It said it couldnt be certain that Mrs L completed the switch 
herself, but it came from someone logged in to her online account. L&G said it was standard 
practice for a confirmation letter to be sent following a transaction of that type. However, it 
couldnt see that a confirmation letter was sent to Mrs L on this occasion. In light of that 
error, L&G sent Mrs L a cheque for £100 as compensation. 
L&G went on to say it had checked to see if Mrs L had been financially disadvantaged by the 
switch. It said it had completed a comparison check and noted Mrs L had benefitted 
financially from switching the funds. 
Mrs L disagreed with several of L&Gs points. Amongst other things, she said her 
comparison of the funds had shown that shed suffered a loss. Mrs L thought the transaction 
not being picked up indicated a fault with L&Gs systems and she said she wanted evidence 
of exactly what had happened. Mrs L also asked for an explanation of why her contributions 
had also been switched to the different fund.
 
In its response L&G acknowledged it had given incorrect information when it said
Mrs L had benefitted financially form the switch. L&G calculated that Mrs Ls fund suffered a 
loss of approximately £3,300 due to the switch. In recognition of the misinformation given in 
its previous letter, L&G sent Mrs L a cheque for £150 for the upset caused. L&G explained 
how the funds were broken down when they were switched and said the contributions were 
re-directed at the same time as the switch in October 2018. 
  
Mrs L remained unhappy and raised serval more points to L&G, the main ones were;
Mrs L was the only person who knew the password for her online account which 
would have been needed to make the switch.
She had done her own calculations of her losses and felt she had suffered a loss of 
approximately £5,100.
Mrs L believed that had she made the transaction herself, a confirmation letter would 
have been sent. The fact that it wasnt pointed towards an internal malfunction with 
L&Gs systems which could have also been responsible for the switch. She also 
questioned if a security breach had been investigated.
Mrs L questioned why her pension contributions had also been redirected into the 
new fund.

Ultimately L&G said that it was satisfied with its responses to Mrs L and hadnt changed its 
mind. So, Mrs L brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said he couldnt see any 
evidence to support Mrs Ls view that the switch was instigated by someone else. He felt 
L&Gs offer of compensation for giving incorrect information and failing to send the 
confirmation letter was fair.
 
Mrs L disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed onto me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L explains that she didnt make the transactions herself so thinks L&G have made an 
error. L&G acknowledge it cant say for certain the transactions were made by Mrs L, but its 
satisfied someone logged into her online account using her unique username and password. 
And its provided evidence to that effect by way of a screen shot of the transaction being 
completed by a user ID linked to Mrs Ls online account. 
Mrs L says her password is only known to her. And L&G confirmed there had been no 
password resets since the account opened. A recent password reset may have indicated 
there had been third party involvement in the switch. 
I asked L&G for a walkthrough of the journey a customer takes when they switch funds and 
re-direct contributions using their online account. Ive noted the process has several steps 
and involves the customer having to select the new fund from a list of funds, decide on a 
percentage split of their funds and confirm their selections. The final stage of the process 
requires the customer to re-enter their password to confirm their changes. Given there are 
several steps involved in the process, I think its hard for a customer to switch funds or 
redirect contributions in error. 
I think theres enough evidence to show the request came from Mrs Ls online account as 
opposed to there being some kind of system error. So, I think it was reasonable for L&G to 
process the switch of funds and redirection of contributions in line with the online request.
But that said, Im not satisfied L&G took all the steps it needed to once the transaction was 
complete. L&G seems to think its error in not sending a written letter of confirmation to Mrs L 
is separate to the issue of funds being switched. L&G showed the switch came up on a 
report showing that the automated confirmation wasnt sent, and L&G missed a notification 
to send this out manually. But this error occurring doesnt mean the switch and redirection of 
contributions was a technical error too. So, in that sense I can see why L&G said the letter 
and the switch were separate issues. However, I dont think L&G have sufficiently assessed 
the impact of not sending the letter, Ill explain why.
L&G say its standard practice is to send a confirmation letter after changes are made by 
customers using their online account. And I think this process is there for a reason, as it acts as a safeguard for customers, giving them an opportunity to reflect on any changes made or 
raise issues or mistakes.
However, in Mrs Ls case L&G didnt send a letter, so she was denied the opportunity to 
reflect on the changes made through her online account. Mrs L says if shed received the 
letter, she could have transferred the funds back several months earlier. So, she asked L&G 
to rework her account as if the switch had not been made. But L&G say, as the username 
shows the instruction came from Mrs Ls account, it wouldnt consider reversing the switch 
and redirection of contributions. 
Ive explained the importance of the confirmation letter that Mrs L was never sent. Therefore, 
I need to determine the likely impact of that mistake. So, Ive considered whether its more 
likely than not, that Mrs L wouldve moved the funds back if shed been sent the confirmation 
letter.
We are an informal alternative to the courts, and I have to reach a fair and unbiased decision 
based on what seems most likely to have happened based on the evidence available to me. 
As Ive said, Im satisfied that the request came from Mrs Ls online account. So, for me to 
say that Mrs L would have reversed the switch of funds had she been sent a letter of 
confirmation, the evidence would have to make it more likely than not that someone other 
than Mrs L made that request.
I first considered the evidence that the switch wasnt completed by Mrs L. This included what 
Mrs Ls said, as well as her argument that the investment fund into which her funds and 
contributions were switched, werent a suitable investment for her. This was because she 
was nearing her retirement age and had previously held her funds in a relatively low risk 
fund. L&G provided information on how regularly Mrs L switched her funds. This showed Mrs 
L had only switched her funds twice before via its operational team. The third occasion in 
dispute was the first and only time a switch had been processed through Mrs Ls online 
account online. This adds weight to Mrs Ls comments that this pension wasnt actively 
managed by her.
I then considered the evidence that it was Mrs L who made the switch. Mrs L says her 
password was only known to her. The password would have been required not only to log in 
to the online account but to confirm the details of the switch and redirection of contributions 
before it was made. Unique usernames and passwords are fairly standard security 
measures which businesses use to ensure instructions received online are being sent from 
its customers. L&G say that Mrs Ls password hadnt been reset and Ive not seen any other 
evidence of a possible third party involvement. There also appears to be little benefit of a 
third party transferring only part of Mrs Ls pension from one fund to another, as all the funds 
remained in Mrs Ls pension. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L, but I havent seen enough evidence or a 
persuasive argument to make me think a third party logged on and made the switch. So, in 
light of the evidence above, I think its more likely than not that Mrs L made the switch using 
her online account.  
Had L&G sent a confirmation letter of Mrs Ls actions, I think it would have confirmed what 
shed already decided  to switch part of her pension funds to a different investment fund. 
Without any persuasive argument or evidence that Mrs L didnt make the switch, I think its 
unlikely Mrs L would have immediately switched the funds back to how they were even if 
shed received the confirmation letter. So, I wont asked L&G to reverse the switch and 
redirection of funds.L&G offered £100 in compensation for not sending the confirmation letter. As Im not 
persuaded the letter would have changed Mrs Ls mind, I think £100 fairly reflects the 
administrative error L&G made. So, I wont ask L&G to do anything more.
In its original response to Mrs Ls complaint L&G said Mrs L hadnt suffered a loss on her 
account. I can appreciate how upsetting this must have been for Mrs L, especially as shed 
done her own calculations and knew that shed suffered a loss. L&G later acknowledged that 
Mrs L had in fact suffered a loss and sent her a cheque for £150 to recognise the upset 
caused. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I understand that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has offered to pay Mrs L 
£100 for not sending a letter of confirmation, as well as £150 for giving incorrect information 
about Mrs Ls losses. I conclude this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
So, my final decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Mrs L 
£250 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman