DRN-2896470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined their 
application for additional mortgage borrowing, despite giving them the impression that their 
application had been approved.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F held their main mortgage with NatWest. In October 2020 Mr and Mrs F 
approached NatWest to borrow an additional £50,000 to purchase a buy-to-let property. 
They say that NatWest told them at that point to find a property and put in an offer, and once 
their offer had been accepted Mr and Mrs F should revert back to the bank to complete the 
loan agreement.
After having an offer on a property accepted Mr and Mrs F arranged an appointment with 
NatWest to go through the full mortgage application. The application was declined due to 
adverse credit scoring information. 
Mr and Mrs F have explained that in a letter they received following the declined application 
theres mention of appealing NatWests lending decision. But they say that when they tried to 
follow this process, NatWests advisers werent aware of the appeals process.
After their application was declined Mr and Mrs F moved their main mortgage to a different 
lender in order to secure additional borrowing. They were charged an Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) by NatWest of around £7,500 for exiting their fixed mortgage deal before the 
end of the fixed period.
 
Unhappy with their experience, Mr and Mrs F complained to NatWest. NatWest said that 
although it hadnt incorrectly declined the application for additional borrowing, its advisers 
couldve offered better service when dealing with the appeals process. NatWest paid Mr and 
Mrs F £250 compensation in recognition of this. But Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy, so 
they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered everything and didnt recommend NatWest should do anything 
more to put things right. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision and bring matters to a close. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons, so Im not upholding the complaint. I recognise this will be disappointing for Mr and 
Mrs F, so Ill explain why.
NatWest hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call it had with Mr or Mrs F 
before they were told to find a property, but on balance, I think its unlikely that they were led 
to believe that their additional borrowing had been agreed at that point. Mr and Mrs F 
already held a mortgage so I think its fair to say they had some knowledge of the mortgage 
application process  including the detailed questions that are asked and information thats 
gathered. And I dont think the initial call they had with NatWest, which would most likely 
have been a brief affordability or eligibility check, wouldve gone into anywhere near as 
much detail as this. 
Mr and Mrs F have explained that a follow up appointment was booked to take place in 
November with a mortgage adviser, after having an offer accepted, to complete the loan 
agreement. As Ive said, I think theyd have known at that point, if not before, that they 
hadnt completed a full mortgage application in their initial call. So I dont think NatWest 
misled them into thinking that their mortgage application had been submitted and agreed.
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs F moved their mortgage to a different lender in order to 
secure the additional borrowing, I need to consider here whether any losses that they faced 
were a result of something NatWest did wrong. But having thought carefully about this, I 
cant hold NatWest responsible for what happened after the mortgage declined. Although I 
know Mr and Mrs F dont necessarily agree with the reason NatWest declined their 
application, at that point it was their choice to decide whether to continue with the purchase 
of an additional property  with a different lender. I do recognise it wouldve been extremely 
disappointing not to be able to proceed with their purchase once theyd found the property 
they wanted, but ultimately, it was their decision to continue with that and end their existing 
NatWest mortgage early. So I dont find that the ERC that became payable on redemption 
was unfairly charged.
Ive looked carefully at the letter NatWest sent to Mr and Mrs F following the declined 
application. Whilst I can understand why they feel it refers to an appeals process, I dont 
entirely agree with them. The letter includes the text You can ask us to reconsider if you 
think there is some other information that we did not take into account in assessing your 
application. You will however, need to provide us with additional information to support your 
request so we may reconsider your application. I dont think this specifically points to an 
appeals process, but instead gives the opportunity to amend any incorrect or omitted 
information that mayve affected the outcome of the application. Im not aware that this was 
the case here, but rather Mr and Mrs F simply didnt agree with NatWests decision, having 
checked their own credit records online. So as there was no information that needed to be 
changed or added, I dont think NatWest unfairly denied Mr and Mrs F the opportunity to 
appeal the decision it had reached.
Whilst I may not have included every point theyve raised individually, Id like to reassure Mr 
and Mrs F that Ive read and considered everything theyve said very carefully. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I havent found that NatWest had acted unfairly in declining their 
mortgage application. And as NatWest has already paid Mr and Mrs F £250 in recognition of 
the service issues they faced  aside from the declined mortgage application  I dont 
require NatWest to do anything further.
 My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F as I realise they feel strongly about this issue. But for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold their complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman