DRN-4180406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about how Gresham Insurance Company Limited handled their 
claim, on their home insurance policy, for subsidence.
Throughout some of the claim and complaint Mr and Mrs G were represented by a family 
member. However for ease of reading Ive referred only to Mr and Mrs G, but all references 
to them include the actions of their representative. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had home insurance that was underwritten by Gresham. Theyd previously 
had issues of subsidence at the property, and in 2006 part of the property was underpinned. 
In 2018 they noticed cracks developing again and raised a claim with Gresham. The claim 
was accepted and the cause was identified as some nearby trees. However one was 
protected by a tree preservation order so Gresham had to apply to the council in order to 
arrange its removal.  
Once this was arranged, Gresham carried out monitoring and concluded further 
underpinning of the property would be necessary. However due to delays and availability of 
contractors, it confirmed this wouldnt be possible until spring 2023.
Mr and Mrs G had been very unhappy with how the claim had progressed during this time. 
And that it had taken so long for the underpinning work to start. They made a complaint and 
in response Gresham offered £200 to apologise for a couple of missed appointments. Mr 
and Mrs G didnt think this was sufficient so they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Gresham should increase the compensation to £1,000 as it had 
caused some significant delays. 
Gresham didnt agree as it said the complaint was only about missed appointments which it 
had compensated for. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree as they said theyd been significantly impacted as the claim had 
gone on for many years, so they thought more compensation was due. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see has been a stressful time for Mr and Mrs G. The claim has lasted for a number of 
years and has taken up a significant amount of their time. And I dont doubt that the stress 
this caused had an impact on their wellbeing.
Insurance claims for subsidence will often take a long time to resolve. The cause of the 
subsidence first needs to be identified and this is usually followed by long periods of 
monitoring to ensure the property is stable. So this can take a long time  often years. In this 
complaint Im considering the actions of Gresham, so I need to decide if it has caused 
additional delays that could have been avoided and the impact these have had on Mr and 
Mrs G, rather than just the natural impact of a subsidence claim.
At the time of Greshams complaint response in July 2022, this claim had been ongoing for 
nearly five years. And at that time the remedial work was yet to begin. This is a very long 
time, even for a subsidence claim and I would have expected the claim to have progressed 
further by that point.
Ive looked at the correspondence and claim notes provided by Gresham. And I can see that 
there were a number of issues that caused the claim to take longer than it should. Some of 
these were outside of Greshams control. For example one of the trees that needed to be 
removed was subject to a tree preservation order. This meant Gresham had to go through 
the council in order to get it removed. This will usually be a lengthy process and will 
inevitably cause a claim to go on for longer than usual. Once removed Gresham then 
needed to carry out a period of monitoring which took further time. 
However there are also a number of occasions when Gresham failed to act and the claim 
went long periods without being moved forward. In particular, the commencement of the 
underpinning and remedial work. 
Mitigation work and monitoring had been completed by the start of 2022. And the scope of 
works was signed off in March that year. At this time, internal notes suggest  remedial work 
should have started as early as April that year. But by the end of June, Gresham confirmed 
that the work would be unable to start until the following spring. And in the notes it said that 
this was in part due to poor communication between it and its contractors. This has led to 
around a years delay in the remedial work. This meant meant Mr and Mrs G had to go 
another year waiting for the repairs, while the subsidence issue continued to develop. I 
understand this would have been very distressing and inconvenient for them.
There were also long periods where no updates were given and email correspondence 
wasnt responded to. I can see from the notes that actions to progress the claim were re-
diarised rather than being actioned as promptly as they should have been. This will have 
caused additional avoidable delays. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Gresham should pay 
a total of £1,000 compensation to make up for these delays. This is one of our larger awards 
for the time period I am considering. It more fairly reflects the delays Gresham caused than 
the £200 originally offered. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G as they feel the compensation 
should be much greater due to the impact the situation has had on them. And I dont mean 
to diminish the very difficult period they have been through. However based on the delays 
caused by Gresham, up until the final response letter issued in July 2022, this amount is at 
the higher end of what this service would award  for complaints of this nature. 
I note that Mr and Mrs G have said that due to the poor service provided by Gresham, the 
subsidence has got worse. However Im pleased to hear that the underpinning work was due 
to begin earlier this year. And even if the subsidence has progressed, this should be 
addressed by repairs. So while I understand it will have been distressing to see the problem 
worsening, I would expect this now to be rectified through the schedule of repairs.
I also note that Mr and Mrs G have raised issues about possible drainage issues that have recently been identified. They say Gresham should have acted sooner to address these 
issues as they were noted earlier on in the claim. As this is an issue that has developed 
since Gresham issued its July 2022 final response, I wont address it here. However I 
understand Mr and Mrs G have now raised this as a separate issue to Gresham. Should 
they remain unhappy after its response then they can bring the complaint to this service after 
that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and require Gresham 
Insurance Company Limited to pay a total of £1,000 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman