DRN-3665068
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance (OCRF) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr T bought solar panels for his home in June 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from OCRF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr T into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr T, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
OCRF did not agree with the investigators assessment. In summary it argued: 
It was not there at time of sale so cant comment on what was said. 
Mr T hasnt provided evidence to determine what electricity savings have been 
achieved. 
Mr T has provided some FIT statements which appear to show the system is working 
as expected and he has received the FIT payments set out in the sales documents. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Mr T was told
Mr T says he was told that the system would be self-funding. I think it is likely that the 
benefits of the system wouldve been discussed. Otherwise, I doubt Mr T wouldve agreed to 
the purchase. He appears to have a clear and consistent memory of having been told the 
system was self-funding.
Documentation
Ive looked at the documentation to see if it made clear that the system would not be self-
funding. In order for Mr T to make an informed decision about the benefits of the panels in 
relation to the overall costs to him he needed to be able to compare the cost of the solar 
panel system to any benefit he may receive or was promised.
The sales contract contained basic details of the system, its estimated electricity generation 
per year (4,485.32 kWh), the price with and without VAT, the deposit (£0.00) and the final 
amount due (£8,500.00),. It did not include sections to show any details about the loan costs 
or the benefits of the system in terms of FIT payments and electricity savings. So, it didnt 
show the true cost to Mr T (including loan interest) or allow him to compare this to the 
benefits. 
There are handwritten notes that indicate the benefit after 12.5 years would be £26,505.13 
and after 25 years £53,010.27. And stating, highest monthly payment in 5 years - £4.58 per 
week after 5 y[ea]rs you start making money. It is unclear who made these notes. This level 
of benefit does not match up with the estimated FIT payments on the estimated returns 
document (discussed below). 
The loan agreement was a separate document, which showed the cash price of the system 
(£8,500.00), the amount of credit (£8,500.00), the total charge for credit (£4,685.88), the 
monthly repayment (£109.88) and the total amount payable (£13,185.88). So, it showed the 
full cost of the system but didnt show its benefits to allow an easy comparison. 
There is a separate estimated returns document which sets out the benefits of the system, 
which said that Mr T would receive a total year-one benefit of £588.92. While this differs from 
what Mr T says he was told, there is no reference to the cost of the system. So, similarly to 
the other documents, I dont think it would have allowed Mr T to easily compare the true cost 
of the system to any benefit he may receive or that he had been promised. 
There was a contract variation form with an updated electricity generation figure of 
4,447.23 kWh and updated estimated benefits as follows:
This was signed by Mr T on 20 June 2018.
Taking all of the above into account, I think the various documents provided to Mr T at the 
time of sale were presented in such a way that it was not easy for him to compare the likely 
benefits with the loan repayments. And it would have been difficult for him to make an 
informed decision without relying on what he was told by the supplier. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr D to have relied on what he was told by the representative when he 
agreed to enter into the contract. And, given the various and confusing figures Mr T was 
given, including the hand-written note that says, after 5 y[ea]rs you start making money, I 
think it is likely he was told that the system would be self-funding within the term of the loan, 
and that it would at least generate greater benefits from year 5 than the annual loan 
repayments.
Has Mr T suffered a loss? 
Using reasonable assumptions about the benefits the system will generate, it does not 
appear to me that the system will be self-funding within the term of the loan. Nor does it 
seem likely that the benefits of the system would cover the annual loan payments at any 
point within the term of the loan. 
So, I think Mr T has suffered a loss because of the supplier misrepresenting the benefits he 
would receive from the system. Because of this, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr Ts complaint is that it isnt so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I dont think it 
would be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home.
Rather, I think, considering Mr Ts comments and his individual circumstances the fair 
outcome here is to put him in a position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 
loan term, meaning that hes not disadvantaged by the misrepresentation.
So, I think OCRF should calculate the benefits Mr T has received, and the likely benefits he 
will receive from the panels over the term of the loan and restructure his loan to ensure he 
pays no more than that.
If by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ts monthly repayments would reduce, meaning that 
he has paid more each month than he should have, he will have an overpayment balance. 
And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect the 
business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement. I think Mr T should be given the following options as to how he would like the 
overpayments to be used:
a) The overpayments are used to reduce any outstanding balance of the restructured loan 
and he continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early.
b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the restructured loan 
and he pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
c) The overpayments are returned to Mr T, and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in the loan finishing early.
d) The overpayments are returned to Mr T, and he pays a new monthly payment
until the end of the loan term.
If Mr T accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information at the time that Mr T first complained to 
OCRF that means his complaint should have been upheld. So, OCRF should pay Mr T £100 
for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman