DRN-1636618
 
The complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H applied for a credit card with Egg in 2002. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
credit card, providing her with cover in the event of disability and unemployment. It also 
included death and serious illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Before adding the PPI, Egg had to make it clear to Mrs H that it was optional and get her 
agreement for it to do so. She says it didnt do that and that, in fact, she doesnt recall it 
being added. 
Im satisfied Mrs H applied for the credit card online. So, Ive looked at the screens I believe 
shed have seen and completed during the application process. These included a section on 
PPI where there was an area for her to click on if she wanted PPI and an equally prominent 
one to click on, just below it, if she didnt. Eggs internal records of the application details she 
provided indicate she chose to have PPI. 
So, I think Egg made it clear that it was selling optional PPI and that Mrs H agreed to have it, 
knowing she had a choice. But, given the sale was back in 2002, its understandable if she 
doesnt remember that now.
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mrs H. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether it was right for her. But it should have provided enough information about the PPI for 
Mrs H to make up her own mind as to whether it was right for her.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Egg made all the information Mrs H needed clear to her. 
But, having gone on to consider what difference that might have made to Mrs H, I dont think 
better information would have stopped her from buying the PPI. Thats because:Based on what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
PPI. And while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover I cant see 
that she was significantly affected by them. 
Mrs H was entitled to enhanced sick pay in her public sector role. She also says she 
had some savings she could have relied on but doesnt remember how much. The 
PPI benefits would have paid out on top of her sick pay and for up to 12 months per 
claim. They covered her for unemployment too. And theyd have allowed her to retain 
any savings she held or use them to cover her other living costs if she was off work. 
Overall, I think Mrs H would have valued the extra security the PPI provided.
Although Mrs H says her financial position was stable, there was no guarantee that 
would continue to be the case going forward. It was possible her situation could 
change and that shed have wanted the PPI to fall back on.
Theres nothing to suggest shed have considered the monthly premium to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that Mrs H could have cancelled it at any 
time, and at no extra cost, if she no longer wanted it.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs H has lost out because of how Egg sold 
her the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman