DRN-1430584
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim made for 
damage to her property following a motor accident where she reversed into her gate.  She 
felt this was unfair, because Ageas didnt make it clear that damage caused to her own 
property wasnt covered under her policy.  
Mrs E is also unhappy Ageas didnt give her a like for like courtesy car and that she couldnt 
use a garage of her choice for the repairs. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said Ageas had correctly applied 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Es motor policy. He also said Ageas wasnt required to 
provide Mrs E with a like for like courtesy car and was entitled to use its approved garages. 
Mrs E disagreed and has asked an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said shes 
been left out of pocket because neither Ageas nor her buildings insurance company will 
meet the cost of the repairs to her wall. She maintained that Ageas didnt make it clear to her 
when the policy was sold that damage to her home wouldnt be covered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs E feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Its not this services role to assess the merits of a claim.  But we do consider whether an 
insurer, Ageas in this case, acted in accordance with the policy terms and made a fair and 
reasonable decision.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy say:
We wont cover any damage to property which is owned by, or is in the care of the 
person claiming 
Mrs E claimed for damage caused to her vehicle, garden gate and pillar whilst reversing out 
of her driveway. Ageas accepted the claim for the damage to her vehicle but declined the 
claim for her property. I appreciate this was frustrating for Mrs E. Particularly as I understand 
shes also been unable to make a claim under her buildings insurance. But Ageas decision to decline the claim is based on the terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy. So, I cant say 
Ageas acted unfairly in declining Mrs Es claim.
Mrs E didnt think this clause was made clear by Ageas when she took the policy out. But I 
think it is clear in the terms and conditions which wouldve been provided to her at the time. 
So, I cant say Ageas misled Mrs E about what she was covered for under the policy.  
Mrs E was also unhappy with the size of the courtesy car Ageas provided for her. The terms 
and conditions of Mrs Es policy say:
If your car is being repaired by one of our approved garages  and you have 
comprehensive cover, then well offer you a small courtesy car for as long as your car 
is being repaired. 
I can understand how having a smaller vehicle than the one being repaired caused problems 
for Mrs E given her need to transport a wheelchair. But her policy only covers her for a small 
courtesy car  and doesnt require Ageas to provide her with a like for like vehicle whilst the 
repairs are being done. So, whilst I can fully appreciate the difficulty Mrs E found herself in, I 
cant say Ageas did anything wrong. 
I can see Mrs E was also concerned about how far the garage repairing her vehicle was 
from her home. Again, I can appreciate the inconvenience this caused. But I dont think 
Ageas acted unreasonably here. The terms and condition of Mrs Es policy allow for her to 
arrange repairs at a garage of her choice. But this must be agreed with Ageas and means 
she wouldnt have been eligible for a courtesy car. Again, I cant say Ageas has done 
anything wrong here or has incorrectly applied the terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy. 
I appreciate that by not being covered for the damage to her property under her motor policy 
with Ageas or her buildings insurance, Mrs E has been left having to meet the cost of the 
repairs herself. But I cant say thats because Ageas acted unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to 
take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman