DRN-3923161
The complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank plc will not refund transactions that he says were fraudulently 
made from his account.
In summary, a month or so after opening his TSB account, a series of payments were made
which Mr A says he didnt authorise. The transactions were instructed via his online banking
facility, beginning from 21 November 2021, and totalling around £6,700. All but £5 of this
sum went to the same beneficiary, who for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as S.
Mr A said he doesnt know S, or the other individual who received the £5. He explained to
the bank that he does let his daughter use the account on his behalf given his health and
accepted that he hadnt made TSB aware of that. Still, Mr A maintained that it definitely was
not him or his daughter who made these payments. Rather, he claimed his account must
have been hacked, so the bank should refund the unauthorised transactions.
When Mr A raised a complaint, TSB decided not to reimburse the account. It said that Mr A
had breached the terms of agreement by allowing a third party to make payments without
first notifying the bank. TSB also drew out some inconsistencies with Mr As version of
things. Namely, that the account had received £300 which was paid in from S after the last of
the disputed transactions took place. Mr A could not explain why he had been paid this
money by someone he alleged had received stolen funds from him.
Based on the security measures it has in place, TSB was not persuaded that the account
had been hacked. Overall, TSB said that the circumstances of what happened did not mean
it should be liable for the £6,700 or so being claimed for.
Upon referring the matter to our service, one of our investigators agreed that TSB should not
have to reimburse Mr A. Because Mr A does not agree, the case has been escalated to me
to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 11 January 2023. I have copied the findings 
section of my decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator concluded that TSB had made a fair decision to not refund Mr A,
considering what its terms and conditions say about allowing someone else access 
to the account without first notifying the bank.
This is a point Ive thought about carefully. But given what Ive seen so far, I am 
minded to decide that there are not reasonable grounds to direct TSB to reimburse 
these contended transactions, based on different reasoning.
Pursuant to the relevant rules, obligations and various principles of good practice 
TSB ought to follow, the bank should return payments if they were made without     
Mr As consent. In the circumstances of this case, the starting point is that 
reimbursement of the disputed payments would only be given by TSB if Mr As 
account had been used fraudulently, i.e. he was the victim of a scam. In my 
judgment, before turning to whether the relevant terms of the account have been 
adhered to, I must first be persuaded that fraud occurred. It follows that, in order to 
fairly expect TSB to return the money Mr A says was taken, I would need to be
convinced that it was paid out without his permission or involvement.
Looking at what we know about the payments, its evident Mr As online banking 
facility was used to set up the first payment to S as a new recipient to send money to. 
Secondly, following this instruction, TSB enacted a security precaution to send a one 
time passcode (OTP) to the mobile number registered to the account. Without this 
OTP, the transaction could not go ahead. Finally, again as part of TSBs fraud 
protection system, a text message was sent to the same mobile number which 
required a positive response to allow the payment to proceed.
Suffice to say, whoever made these payments must have had certain access to the 
account; the details of which should have been secure. Its not enough for someone 
to have intercepted the means to pass one layer of security  all of the steps must 
have been taken to go ahead with this first payment to S (and a similar process 
needed to make the subsequent transactions). Without the ability to log into the 
accounts online banking (which requires a password, amongst other private 
information), together with the means to receive and respond to messages to the 
registered mobile device, the transaction simply could not have happened.
Its common in fraud and scams that a consumer can be tricked into sharing certain
information which means they unwittingly permit a fraudster to make payments. This 
can present an explanation for how payments can be made without the necessary 
consent  which may make it reasonable for that consumer to be reimbursed.
However, Mr A submits that he hasnt divulged his security information to anyone 
other than his daughter, whom he trusts to make only the transactions he consents 
to. Nor has he communicated with an individual that looking back now may have 
actually been a fraudster. Theres no mention of a third party acting in such a way.  
Mr A also maintains that he did not make the payments himself.
Consequently, based on what Mr A has submitted, this leaves only his accusation 
that the account was hacked. I interpret this as someone somehow being able to get 
around the security steps Ive described without detection by him or TSB. Its 
important to note that Mr A has provided no compelling evidence to support this 
explanation.
On the other hand, TSB has come up with a host of technical information to support 
that its systems remained intact and without fault for these payments. Ive already 
described that there were differing layers of security, meaning that a perpetrator 
would need to compromise multiple facilities protected by the bank. As I understand 
it, there are no reported errors that can be directly linked to Mr As account or that 
would have impacted these systems at the material time. Everything considered, 
there is a distinct lack of evidence to support that Mr As account was hacked.On 21 November 2021, the same day as the first payment that was made to S, there 
was a call made to TSB. During which, security details were verified, and the caller 
changed the mobile number linked to the account. Because the caller was able to 
pass the steps needed, TSB was satisfied that it was Mr A it was speaking to. It had 
no suspicions of him being impersonated and therefore it granted the change.
I accept that its possible for someone to have masqueraded as Mr A to alter his 
recorded contact number. This could potentially have allowed access to the OTP that 
TSB sent and the corresponding text message that needed a reply. Still, I must reach 
my decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I find more likely 
than not to have happened. And as things stand, I do not find it probable that 
someone changed Mr As registered mobile device without his permission. I say so 
because, there remains no persuasive explanation for how someone was able to 
satisfy security to allow the changed to be made. Confidential information (that Mr A 
would have agreed to when opening the account) had to be given to TSB during this 
call to authenticate it was Mr A that was calling (or someone with his permission). As 
Ive explained, based on what Mr A has put forward, there is no plausible
explanation for how this was obtained.
Whats more, I must consider that the documentary evidence that TSB has of this
conversation is in keeping with Mr As statement that, at the time, he was in and out 
of hospital due to his health. The notes recorded by the bank clearly show the caller 
wanted to change the mobile number in order to make payments for food while in 
hospital.
On balance, I find it unlikely that a fraudster would know and use this specific 
information about Mr A as part of a ploy to exploit his account. There would appear 
no logical reason why an unauthorised third party would reveal these particular 
details in general conversation when it wasnt necessary to  all that was needed 
was the requisite security credentials, which had already been given. As well as this, 
there is no suggestion of further changes to the account that might facilitate it being 
the subject of a scam. Such as, for example, a change to the security credentials, or 
a new card or PIN being issued to a different address  which is what I might expect 
to see from an account that had been compromised.
In simpler terms, the conversation that took place when the mobile number was 
updated on the account seems somewhat at odds with it being used fraudulently. 
Besides, even with access to OTPs and/or text messages from TSB, we know that it 
was Mr As online banking facility that was used to make the payments in question 
(which requires different security details other than a mobile number).
Moreover, TSB has been able to provide IP address history, a method commonly 
used to identify the general location of the use of an internet network, such as the 
one available to TSB consumers who use online banking. This demonstrates that the 
online banking logins for the relevant payments were made in locations similar to that 
of transactions that Mr A is not disputing. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of 
this evidence. Indeed, IP addresses are often used in cases of this kind given their 
objectivity. The records persuade me that the approximate geolocation of whoever 
made the payments in question was within the close vicinity to where Mr As account 
normally used online banking to perform transactions.
In my opinion, the consistent whereabouts of the genuine payments made from the 
account to that of the ones being contended here casts doubt on how probable it is 
that these were fraudulent transactions.My role isnt to determine exactly how the payments were made. Rather, as Ive set 
out, what I need to decide is whether I find it more likely than not that Mr A was the 
victim of a scam with payments made without his consent. When reviewed against all 
the available evidence, I am not currently persuaded this call in November 2021, or 
the counter arguments Mr A has made, are enough to substantiate his account was 
used fraudulently.
I have also borne in mind that some of the other circumstances of what happened 
call into question that fraud occurred here. Undoubtedly, its highly unlikely that an 
alleged fraudster would send money back to where it was stolen from. The very 
nature of a scam is to extract money away for ones gain  normally to the extent that 
there are no funds left to take.
Yet, Mr As account was credited with £300 by the very same individual(s) that 
allegedly received the proceeds of the supposed scam. Naturally, it does not make 
sense to me why Mr As account would be given this money back at a time when he 
claims it had been dishonestly drained. I cannot fathom why a perpetrator, having 
just all but emptied an account, would return some of those funds to it. Without 
question, this conflicts with Mr As claim and is a point that, so far, there has been no 
plausible justification for.
Likewise, the £5 payment bears out another irregularity. This low-value transaction 
was made the day after the first three payments and was paid to a different 
beneficiary to S. This begs the question as to why a fraudster would break the 
pattern of crediting an account which had already successfully received just under 
£6,000. Especially, when considering that such a nominal amount was taken 
compared to the funds available.
Finally, there appears similar unexplained characteristics of the last disputed 
transaction. This took place several days after the £5 payment and switched back to 
paying S. It does not make sense to me why a fraudster with the means to access an 
account would wait for this length of time to steal once more. Delaying would seem to 
only increase the chances of being caught or prevented from taking what was left in 
the account  which seems an unnecessary risk to take.
Under all of the circumstances of this case, my current judgment is that I cannot 
safely conclude its fair for TSB to return these payments to Mr As account, based on 
the relevant obligations and standards of good practice. So, in the absence of new 
evidence that changes my view, I intend to decide that TSB is not required to issue a 
refund here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I am currently minded not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties did not respond to my provisional decision, meaning that no further submissions 
were made. It follows that there is no new evidence or arguments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that neither Mr A nor TSB accepted or disputed my provisional findings by the 
deadline given, and no new information has been presented for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my intended decision. To that end, the way in which I was minded to 
decide the complaint remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman