DRN-4183453
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about Specialist Motor Finance Limiteds (SMFL) decision to lend to 
him.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr A took out a hire purchase agreement with SMFL to finance the purchase 
of a car. He borrowed £4,295 over a 48 month term, with monthly repayments of £154.11. 
He says that at the time he was borrowing from every payday loan company that would lend 
to him as he had a gambling addiction. So he thinks SMFL shouldnt have lent to him. 
Mr A says he missed around 15 payments and was chased daily by phone and over text 
message as well as being charged late payment fees. He says this put additional strain on 
his marriage.
Mr A was in and out of employment during the term of the agreement, most recently in 
January 2021. SMFL told him they would write off the remaining balance and allow him to 
keep the car. But a third party has been chasing him for the debt of around £600  which has 
been causing him further stress.
Mr A complained to SMFL but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said Mr A had told 
them on his credit application that he was earning £5,600 net per month but that theyd been 
unable to verify his income electronically. So theyd requested payslips and adjusted his 
income to £3,522. Theyd checked Mr As credit history, which showed some defaulted 
accounts, but most of these werent recent. SMFL said they specialise in providing credit to 
people who may have experienced financial difficulty previously, so some level of previous 
missed payments wouldnt be a reason to decline an application.
SMFL explained theyd used a cost of living index to estimate Mr As monthly expenditure at 
£2,430.18, and used credit reference data to calculate his monthly credit commitments at 
£215.25. They said that left Mr A with estimated disposable income of £876.57 against the 
monthly loan repayment of £154.11  which showed the loan was affordable. 
SML added they hadnt seen evidence of the multiple defaults and county court judgments 
(CCJs) that Mr A referred to and could only base their decision on what was on the credit file 
at the time of the application. In relation to Mr As loss of employment and difficulties in 
paying, SMFL said theyd made arrangements with him and offered him a deferral of 
payments. They said contact became increasingly infrequent and in November 2021, Mr A 
told them he couldnt find alternative employment. SMFLs letter said they decided to write 
the remaining £601.66 off at this time and allow Mr A to keep the car.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things and upheld the 
complaint  saying she didnt think SMFL had carried out proportionate checks. She said if 
SMFL had carried out proportionate checks they should have concluded it wasnt 
responsible to lend to Mr A. She also said SMFL hadnt acted fairly in passing Mr As debt to 
a third party when theyd told him theyd written it off. Our investigator concluded that SMFL 
should refund to Mr A any payments in excess of £4,295, together with interest at 8%. She 
also said they should pay him £100 compensation for the worry caused by pursuing him for 
the debt, and remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to the 
hire purchase agreement.
Mr A accepted our investigators view. SMFL didnt provide a full response within the 
timeframe  they asked to see the bank statements our investigator had reviewed, and they 
asked about some specific figures shed referred to in her view. They implied theyd provide 
a further response once theyd looked at the bank statements but hadnt done so at the time 
of writing my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did SMFL carry out proportionate checks?
The first thing SMFL noted was that Mr A had overstated his income on his application  
hed said it was £5,600 but when they checked his payslip they calculated it to be around 
£3,500. CONC 5.3.7R (at the time of the application) says a firm mustnt accept an 
application for credit when it knows that a consumer hasnt been truthful in completing the 
application. Mr As salary at the time was made up of a mix of basic and commission so its 
possible Mr As estimate was optimistic rather than untruthful. But I think its enough to 
suggest SMFL ought to have carried out additional checks.
The credit file data SMFL obtained shows five defaults. SMFL said they werent concerned 
about these as most werent recent. But the credit file data shows that Mr A was still making 
minimum amount repayments against accounts that had defaulted in 2012 and 2013. And 
the most recent default had been around 9 months before Mr As application to SMFL. Whilst 
SMFL said this had been settled in full, the credit file annotation says Debt Assigned and 
shows a balance of £746 which implies that it had been passed to a third party rather than 
paid. The credit file also showed four missed payments within the past 12 months  two on a 
loan and one each on a current account and a credit card. Finally, it showed a CCJ (albeit 
this had been satisfied), and that the balance on Mr As active credit card was well over its 
credit limit. 
In summary, its fair to say Mr As credit file data at the time was indicative of someone who 
was struggling to manage credit and make payments when they were due. Taking that 
together with the fact that Mr A had overstated his income suggests it wouldnt be sufficient 
to take a standardised approach when assessing whether Mr A would be able to make 
repayments under a new loan agreement. But SMFL did take a standardised approach  
using statistical data to estimate his monthly expenditure. It follows that I dont think SMFL 
did carry out proportionate checks  so Ive thought about what they should have looked at 
and what theyd have found.
What would SMFL have found?
A proportionate check would have involved SMFL finding out more about Mr As income, 
expenditure, and credit commitments. Mr A completed a summary of income and expenditure for a debt collection agency about a week before applying for the loan with 
SMFL. This set out total income for his household of £3,700 and total expenditure of £3,616 
 suggesting the hire purchase agreement wasnt affordable for Mr A. However, it wouldnt 
have been appropriate for SMFL to fully rely on Mr As answers to this because theyd 
already identified hed been inaccurate in estimating his income.
So a proportionate check would most likely have involved looking at Mr As bank statements. 
Ive looked at statements for two of Mr As accounts for the three months preceding his 
application to SMFL. These two accounts appear to contain the majority of Mr As income 
and expenditure so I havent asked for statements for a third account which is referenced on 
one of these statements.
The bank statements show Mr As sources of income were his salary, some ad hoc 
payments from a relative, and income from gambling. They also show numerous receipts 
from short-term, high-cost lenders  during the three-month period he borrowed from one 
lender on six occasions, and from another on one occasion.
Looking at Mr As expenditure, a large proportion of his salary was transferred to his wife 
each month  around £3,700. Mr As told us he paid his salary to his wife who then paid the 
bills including most of his loan repayments because otherwise they wouldnt get paid. This is 
consistent with the evidence on his bank statements which show that the direct debit 
payment to a credit card provider bounced in each of December 2016, January 2017 and 
February 2017. Mr A also had a monthly direct debit to a pawnbroker of around £135. The 
bank statements show a small amount of day-to-day expenditure but dont include any 
regular committed expenditure. 
Finally, the bank statements show a very high number of gambling transactions  multiple 
transactions across multiple days of each week. This is consistent with Mr As testimony that 
he was struggling with a gambling addiction at the time SMFL decided to lend to him. 
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied SMFL didnt make a fair lending decision. It should 
have been clear to them that Mr A wouldnt be able to sustainably make repayments under 
the agreement. And it follows that they shouldnt have lent to him.
Have SMFL treated Mr A unfairly in any other way?
Part of Mr As complaint is that he is still being chased for around £600 outstanding on the 
loan, despite SMFL having said they would write off the balance. 
SMFLs letter to Mr A dated 9 November 2022 said theyd taken the decision in 
November 2021 to write off the balance, not pursue Mr A any further, and for him to keep 
possession of the vehicle. But Ive seen evidence of a debt recovery company contacting 
Mr A to try to recover the balance  for example in October 2022.
Because Ive concluded SMFL shouldnt have lent to Mr A, there should be no outstanding 
balance (as Ill explain below), and so Mr A shouldnt receive any more contact in relation to 
this balance. In addition, I think SMFL should pay Mr A £100 to compensate him for the 
upset caused by passing his debt on when theyd said they would write it off.
Putting things right
Its not possible to put Mr A back in exactly the position hed have been in if it wasnt for 
SMFLs unfair lending decision. Mr A has paid far more than the cash price of the car and 
SMFL has told him he can keep the car. However, as I dont think SMFL should have 
approved the hire purchase agreement, its not fair for them to keep the interest and 
charges. SMFL should therefore refund all the interest and charges applied to the 
agreement, treating everything Mr A paid in excess of the original cash price as an overpayment. SMFL should then add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
SMFL should also remove any adverse information they recorded on Mr As credit file in 
relation to this agreement.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint. Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
must:
Refund any payments Mr A made in excess of £4,295, adding simple interest at 8% 
per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement;
Ensure Mr A is no longer contacted in relation to the outstanding balance;
Pay Mr A £100 in addition to the above refund; and 
Remove any adverse information recorded in Mr As credit file in relation to this 
agreement.
If Specialist Motor Finance Limited consider tax should be deducted from the interest 
element of my award they should provide Mr A a certificate showing how much theyve taken 
off so that Mr A can reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman