DRN-3228706
The complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) failed to 
provide him with a settlement figure on his loan following his request in September 2017.
What happened
Mr H was given a loan by MCF in June 2017. He borrowed £3,500 and agreed to repay the 
loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr H faced problems repaying the loan relatively soon after 
taking it and his debt was transferred to a third-party debt collection company in 
January 2018.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She noted that Mr H did 
appear to have requested an early settlement figure from MCF in September 2017. But he 
then began to face problems with his money, and his conversations with the business moved 
onto a revised repayment arrangement instead. She didnt think that Mr H had made any 
further requests of MCF for an early settlement figure, and so didnt think MCFs actions had 
caused Mr H to lose out. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. He said that both MCF and the third-party debt 
collection company had failed to allow him to repay his loan early. And he raised the 
additional complaint that he didnt think the loan had been lent responsibly in the first place. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I should firstly set out what I can, and cannot, deal with in this decision. This complaint 
is against MCF. So I can only deal with its actions in relation to the settlement figure. If Mr H 
is unhappy with how he has been treated by the third-party debt collection company he 
would need to raise a complaint with that company direct. 
I have also seen that Mr H responded to our adjudicators assessment with a further 
complaint that the loan was lent irresponsibly in the first place. That issue doesnt form part 
of this complaint and so I wont be dealing with it here. I can see that Mr H has raised that 
complaint with MCF who thought that the loan had been lent fairly. If Mr H is unhappy with 
that response he would need to refer it to us as a separate complaint. But I must warn him 
that there are strict time limits for making such a referral and from the limited evidence I have 
seen it might be the case that we are unable to deal with that complaint given the time that 
has passed since MCF issued its final response letter to him.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail the communication that took place between Mr H and 
MCF in September and October 2017. I wont repeat all that detail here, but I will summarise 
what I consider to be the key events.
Mr Hs repayment due in August 2017 was returned unpaid. On 11 September Mr H emailed 
MCF to explain that he would be making his scheduled repayment for that month on time. 
And he asked for details of what would be the total balance of his account at the start of 
November.
MCF responded to his request two days later, and provided him with details of his arrears, 
and the balance that would be on the account if the forthcoming repayment was successfully 
made. Mr H responded to that email questioning why the balance wouldnt be reduced if he 
made an early repayment of the loan.
Later that day MCF again emailed Mr H to clarify whether he was seeking an early 
settlement figure. And it explained that it wanted to set something in place to deal with the 
arrears on the account. It asked Mr H for details of his financial circumstances so it could 
work out a suitable repayment plan.
Mr Hs scheduled repayment due on 15 September failed and was returned unpaid.
Around a week later Mr H told MCF that he was in financial difficulties and was considering a 
debt management plan. He asked whether it would be possible to freeze the loan interest 
and make weekly repayments of £100. MCF asked Mr H to confirm that payment was 
affordable and that he was aware of companies that could give him free advice about his 
financial problems. Following Mr Hs confirmation MCF agreed to the repayment plan.
MCF was unable to take the payment Mr H had agreed to make as the debit card details 
hed provided did not match those it held on its system. It asked Mr H to get back in touch. 
He did so around two weeks later and made a payment of £350. He agreed to call back later 
to set up his debit card for future payments to be taken.
It seems that there was then no further correspondence between Mr H and MCF. And Mr H 
made no further repayments on his loan. After sending him letters to try and resolve the 
situation, MCF sold Mr Hs debt to a third-party debt collection company in January 2018.
Id tend to agree with Mr H that he did request a settlement figure in September 2017. I think 
the language he used could have been clearer  MCF misinterpreted what he had asked for. 
And I think it fair to say that Mr H isnt an expert in these matters and the responsibility 
largely fell on MCF to clarify what Mr H wanted if his request wasnt clear.
I think that request for clarification took place within a couple of days. But rather than 
confirming he wanted an early settlement quotation Mr H told MCF that he was facing 
financial difficulties and wanted some help with his repayments. I cant see that, at any stage 
following that point, Mr H repeated his request for an early settlement quotation. So I dont 
think it would be unreasonable for the lender to have thought circumstances had changed, 
and a settlement quotation was no longer required.
Given the obvious problems that Mr H was facing with his finances at that time  only being 
able to make one repayment between August 2017 and January 2018 - Im not persuaded 
that MCF providing him with a settlement figure would have led to him being able to repay 
the loan. I appreciate that Mr H says he might have sought other funding, or a loan from 
family or friends, but there is no clear evidence those requests would have been successful.
I have considered how MCF responded to Mr H when he explained he was facing problems 
managing his repayments. At that time the regulator would expect MCF to take steps to 
ensure that Mr H was treated fairly, with forbearance and with due consideration. It provided 
firms with a number of examples of this sort of behaviour including the consideration of 
reducing or waiving future interest charges, allowing the payment of arrears to be deferred, or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
It is my understanding that the regulators guidance isnt intended to leave debts outstanding 
for an indefinite period of time. Instead the requirement for lenders to show forbearance and 
due consideration to consumers who are facing financial difficulties is to allow a reasonable 
period of breathing space for consumers, facing an unexpected fall in their disposable 
income, to review their options. I think that MCFs actions were in line with those 
requirements. And when Mr H failed to make his promised repayments, and made no further 
contact with MCF, I think it was reasonable for his debt to be transferred to the third party.
So on balance I dont think it was MCFs actions that meant Mr H was unable to repay his 
loan in late 2017. I dont think MCF has done anything wrong that has caused Mr H to lose 
out. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman