DRN-3796555
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK Plc after she says a transaction for £40.15 took
her Basic Current Account overdrawn. Miss P is also unhappy Barclays didnt properly take
into account her vulnerability when dealing with the matter.
Miss P is represented by her partner Mr T. While Mr T has been the person engaging and
dealing with this complaint, for the most part I will refer to Miss P as it is Miss Ps complaint.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties to explain why I didnt think Miss Ps 
complaint should be upheld. I have copied below the background and my provisional 
findings from my provisional decision, which form part of this decision. 
What happened 
Miss Ps submissions are that she placed an online order with a food retailer (Company C)
on Monday 26 April 2021 for £40.15. Mr T has said he checked online that the sum was
showing as pending so that Miss P would not spend the funds.
Miss P told Barclays that on Friday 30 April 2021/ Saturday 1 May 2021 her account balance
went up by just over £40 without any explanation and she presumed it had come from a
friend and spent the funds.
Barclays notes show that on Monday 3 May 2021 (Early May Bank Holiday) at 14.00 Miss P
logged a complaint about her account going overdrawn.
Barclays spoke with Mr T on 4 May 2021 and on more than one occasion on 5 May 2021.
Barclays concluded they had not done anything wrong and they suggested Miss P approach
Company C. However, Barclays did accept that one of their staff could have been more
helpful during their call with Mr T and so they offered Miss P £50 to reflect the trouble
caused by that particular call and time spent on the phone trying to resolve the matter.
Miss P accepted the £50 as it would help bring her account back into credit, but was
uncomfortable doing so given the level of upset the matter had caused.
Miss P then raised further concerns with Barclays about the impact these events had on her
health and complained about Barclays approach to dealing with vulnerable customers as
she didnt think enough consideration had been given to her circumstances.
Miss P brought the complaint to our service where our investigator looked to try and
understand what had happened. The investigator concluded Barclays version of events was
not clear, but they felt the £50 offer seemed reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss P strongly disagreed. She said the impact to her health had not been properly
considered  especially when Barclays knew about her circumstances as she already had a
marker on her account that she was vulnerable. And Miss P couldnt understand how she
was expected to know what had happened, when Barclays had not been able to provide
clear answers themselves. Miss P also expressed concerns about Barclays complaint
handling.
As our investigator couldnt resolve things, the case has come to me to decide and both
parties were approached for further submissions to try and better understand these events.
Mr T, on behalf of Miss P, replied but said there was no further evidence available in relation
to the transaction in question.
Barclays responded. They explained an earlier transaction for £42.33 to Company C was
authorised on 19 April 2021, claimed by Company C on Saturday 24 April 2021 but did not
post on Miss Ps statement until Monday 26 April 2021 as the money was claimed on a
Saturday.
Barclays explained the payment of £40.15 to Company C was authorised on 26 April 2021
when sufficient funds were showing in Miss Ps account. They said the sum was then
claimed by Company C on Saturday 1 May 2021 at which time the funds wouldve come off
Miss Ps available balance, but this would not have been taken and shown on Miss Ps
statement until the next working day, Tuesday 4 May 2021.
Barclays also confirmed once more that if the funds were unclaimed by midnight on 3 May
2021, they would be returned to Miss Ps available balance. Barclays said this is an
automated process.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my findings are different
to those reached by the investigator and Im minded to not uphold Miss Ps complaint for the
reasons below.
Is Barclays at fault for Miss P going overdrawn on her Basic Bank Account?
This is at the heart of Miss Ps complaint, and based on the available evidence and
submissions Ive not seen enough to fairly conclude that Barclays have done something
wrong here. Ill explain why.
In the submissions Miss P has referenced there are features with a Basic Bank Account to
help individuals in a less financially secure position or individuals who may be considered
more vulnerable. I think Miss Ps assessment on this point in relation to these types of bank
accounts is reasonable. Miss P further submitted that one of the features of this type of
account is to not allow the account to go overdrawn. However, this is where Im unable to
agree with Miss P.
There are different types of overdraft  arranged overdraft and unarranged overdraft  and
as per the terms and conditions of Miss Ps account, her account does not allow for an
arranged overdraft. However, the terms and conditions note it may be possible that a
payment could take the account into an unarranged overdraft. So it is possible for Miss Ps
account to become overdrawn, and interest and charges could be applied for unarranged
overdrafts. However, in this instance it doesnt appear Miss Ps account incurred any such
costs. So Miss P hasnt suffered a financial loss here.
Ive next considered what I think most likely happened with the transaction in question  that
is, the transaction for £40.15 which Miss P authorised on Monday 26 April 2021.Like our investigator, I agree that Barclays version of events could have been clearer
through their submissions. However, this doesnt automatically mean that Barclays did
something wrong when the transaction was being processed.
A payment using a debit card follows a process and, as far as is reasonably possible, Ive
looked to see if the process was followed. Where its not possible to know exactly what has
happened, Ive had to consider what I think more likely than not happened based on the
balance of probability.
At the time Miss P completed her online shop with Company C and entered the details for
the payment online, Barclays was able to authorise the transaction as there were sufficient
funds in the account  this is supported by Miss Ps statements. So I dont think Barclays did
anything wrong here.
When this happened, the money would have been instantly set aside as the payment was
pending until Company C was ready to claim the money. By setting aside these funds
Miss Ps available balance would have reduced, but this isnt something that wouldve shown
on Miss Ps statements and her account balance wouldve remained the same. I understand
from the submissions Mr T said that he checked to ensure the payment was pending and
therefore unavailable to Miss P to spend. So I dont think anythings gone wrong here either.
Funds that are set aside as pending are unable to remain pending indefinitely and different
banks will have their own arrangements regarding how long such funds can remain set aside
like this  7 days is not uncommon. Barclays describe the end of this period of time as the
purge date. However, where a transaction has already been authorised, this means its
possible for the merchant to still make a claim for the funds after the purge date.
Ive seen Barclays internal screenshot that shows the purge date for the transaction in
question was midnight on 3 May 2021. Barclays have confirmed this is an automated
process, so any unclaimed funds wouldve been returned automatically and the available
balance increased accordingly. This would be the same for all customers.
From this point events become less clear, including when Company C claimed the funds. On
the one hand Barclays have said the funds were claimed late - after the purge date - so the
funds having been returned to the available balance couldve been spent, and the merchant
claiming the funds after the purge date therefore contributed to the account going overdrawn
when the funds were removed.
However, Barclays have also submitted that the funds were claimed on 1 May 2021  before
the purge date - and the funds wouldve left Miss Ps available balance at that point, but the
payment wouldnt have left her account balance until 4 May 2021 as that was the next
working day.
As Miss P has said the goods from Company C were delivered to her on Saturday 1 May
2021, I think its reasonable to say that Company C were likely to have claimed the funds on
that day. This does seem to be supported by Miss Ps statements which show against
entries for 4 May 2021: Card payment to [Company C] on 1 May 40.15 and also, Refund
from [Company C] on 1 May 1.00. (My emphasis).
Ive considered what Miss P has said about her available balance increasing by around £40
on 30 April 2021/ 1 May 2021 and that she did not know the source of the funds, but
believed them to be from a friend. Its now difficult to know exactly where these funds Miss P
is referring to came from as its not possible to see what Miss Ps available balance wouldve
shown between 30 April 2021 and 4 May 2021. Furthermore, Miss P was unable to identifythe funds herself at the time. Miss Ps statements also do not show any transactions for 1-3
May 2021, and there is of course another party involved in this transaction  Company C 
for whom we do not have evidence for their side of the transaction, so its possible any error
could be with Company C.
This leaves me to consider whether I think the transaction for £40.15 was more likely than
not returned by Barclays to Miss Ps available balance on either 30 April 2021 or 1 May 2021
as Miss P believes to be the case. And having done so, Ive not seen enough to say that the
transaction in question for £40.15 was returned by Barclays to Miss Ps available balance.
Barclays have said theyve been unable to locate any records to suggest the funds for the
£40.15 transaction were returned to Miss P before the purge date, let alone the days Miss P
is saying her available balance increased. Given returning unclaimed funds was an
automated process, I think its fair to say that it would be unlikely Barclays would have sent
the money back any sooner than the purge time and date.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its reasonable to say £40.15 was not
returned by Barclays to Miss Ps available balance. And as the funds had most likely been
claimed on Saturday 1 May 2021 - before the purge date  the next step was to settle the
account. And I think its fair to say the account was settled and the funds taken from Miss Ps
account on Tuesday 4 May 2021 due to this being the first working day after the bank
holiday.
I recognise Miss P raised her complaint that her account had gone overdrawn during the day
on 3 May 2021, but Ive not seen enough to say this was due to an error by Barclays. And so
Im unable to say Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably in their handling of the
payment in question.
Id like to reassure Miss P that in the course of reviewing what happened with this
transaction Ive kept in mind how Barclays handled it given what they knew about Miss P
and her health. And having done so, Ive not seen anything to make me think Barclays acted
unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P when processing the transaction.
Complaint Handling
Part of Miss Ps concerns relate to Barclays handling of things after they had gone wrong 
in particular that Barclays did not handle the complaint well or properly consider her
vulnerability in the course of reviewing her complaint or when considering compensation.
I should explain there are limits to what our service can consider. The rules this service
follows  set out in the regulators handbook of rules and guidance  explain that, amongst
other things, this service cannot consider complaints about complaint handling.
Im therefore unable to consider the processes Barclays have in place for dealing with
complaints, or their wider practices about their training of staff. So Im unable to consider
Miss Ps concerns about how Barclays staff generally deal with vulnerable consumers.
These are matters for the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to
consider. The role of this service is to resolve individual disputes on the basis of what is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of each individual case. And so this service cannot fine
or punish businesses  that is something for the regulator to consider.
Given Barclays offer of £50 relates to how it was dealing with Miss Ps complaint, I am
therefore not in a position to review if this is fair or not. But I would note that Miss P should
understand this £50 was not a payment in relation to the outcome of this complaint, so it is
not an admission by Barclays that they have done something wrong in relation to thetransaction in question.
I am sorry to hear of the challenges Miss P faces with her health. My findings are in no way
meant to diminish her circumstances, but my role is to decide what I think is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances to resolve this complaint and Im unable to say Barclays did
anything wrong here based on the submissions and evidence available to me.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Miss P replied through Mr T to say she disagreed with the provisional decision but made no 
further comments in relation to the provisional findings for me to consider.
Barclays did not respond to my provisional decision by the deadline given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss P and Barclays have not offered any further evidence or submissions for me to 
consider, I see no reason to alter the findings as set out in my provisional decision. That is, 
for the reasons above, Ive not seen enough to make me think Barclays mishandled the 
transaction in question, so I cant reasonably say theyve done anything wrong on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Miss Ps complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman