DRN-4240589
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Startline Motor Finance Limited failed to advise her of a £330 fee for 
starting repossession proceedings on a car that had been supplied to her under a hire 
purchase agreement.
Mrs E is being represented in this complaint by Mr E. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any comments or actions by either Mr E or Mrs E as being made or done by Mrs E.
What happened
In December 2021, Mrs E was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. The agreement was for £4,495 over 42 months; with 41 monthly payments of 
£144.33 and a final payment of £154.33.
Mrs E fell behind with payments in April 2022. Although she made additional payments to try 
and clear these arrears, Startline started repossession proceedings in early 2023. 
Mrs E contacted Startline on 27 January 2023 to bring her account up to date. Startline 
advised her how much she needed to pay but gave her the wrong amount, and they didnt 
include the £330 fee for starting the repossession proceedings. As such, Startline attempted 
to collect a larger amount than Mrs E was expecting. And she didnt have sufficient money in 
her account for this payment.
Mrs E wasnt happy with what had happened, and she complained to Startline. They 
acknowledged theyd given her incorrect information and offered her £75 compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience caused by this error. However, they said that the £300 fee 
was still payable.
Mrs E wasnt happy with Startlines response, and she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Startline were able to charge the £330 fee. So, while they failed to 
include this in the amount they asked Mrs E for during the call on 27 January 2023, the 
investigator said the fee was still payable. However, the investigator said the £75 Startline 
had offered for misadvising Mrs E was reasonable in the circumstances. And they didnt 
think Startline should pay anything more.
Mrs E didnt agree with the investigator. She said that it was a shock when Startline 
attempted to collect the fee and, had they done so, it wouldve put pressure on her finances. 
She also said that it would cause her hardship to pay this fee, and this situation has only 
arisen because of Startlines irresponsible behaviour. Because of this, she thought that 
Startline should suffer the consequences of their own negligence.
Because Mrs E didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs E was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement Mrs E signed on 15 December 2012. Ive 
noted the terms and conditions to this agreement say:
9.4 If any of the following events happen, we may at any time serve on you a notice 
under the [Consumer Credit Act 1974] telling you what you must do to remedy the 
situation. If you do not do what the notice requires you to do within the time limit 
specified, we may end your right to hire the Vehicle and, at our discretion, end the 
agreement. The events referred to are :-
9.4.1 you do not pay any Repayment or other sum due under this Agreement 
when it is due;
10. What you must pay if condition 9.4 applies
10.1 If we end the hiring or this Agreement under Condition 9.4 then:
10.1.5 you will pay all reasonable costs and expenses  we incur in retaking 
possession of, storing and transporting the Vehicle and in enforcing any term 
of this Agreement.
Ive also seen that Startline sent a letter to Mrs E dated 10 April 2022, terminating the 
agreement. In this letter they advised her that they were looking at court proceedings being 
issued against you [and that] you will be liable for these additional costs incurred.
Whilst Mrs E then made a payment arrangement with Startline to bring her account up to 
date, Startline started repossession proceedings on 4 January 2023 because payments 
under this arrangement hadnt been made. And this incurred the £330 fee.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the £330 fee was applied in line with the terms 
and conditions Mrs E agreed to. And, while the amount of the fee itself wasnt mentioned, 
Startline also advised Mrs E on 10 April 2022 that repossession proceedings would incur an 
additional fee.
Given this, Im satisfied that Startline acted reasonably when applying the repossession fee.
When Mrs E spoke to Startline on 27 January 2023, asking what she still needed to pay to 
bring her account up to date, she shouldve been told about the £330 fee. And had she been 
advised of this, given that she didnt have the funds to pay this outright, I think she wouldve 
arranged to pay this in instalments, on top of her normal monthly payments.When a financial business has done something wrong (as was the case here with Startline 
failing to advise Mrs S in the call of 27 January 2023 that a £330 fee was also payable) 
where possible we look to put the customer in the same position they wouldve been in had 
the error not happened. And, in this case, the fee would still be payable, and Mrs E would 
most likely have arranged to pay this in instalments.
As such, and for the reasons already given, Im satisfied that Startline were able to charge 
this fee, and I wont be asking them to waive this. Instead, I would expect them to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs E, while taking into consideration the FCA requirements 
to treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
However, its still the case that Startline tried to collect £330 more from Mrs S than she was 
expecting, and that this wouldve caused her some shock and upset. But I also need to 
consider that this payment wasnt collected, and Mrs E wasnt caused any additional 
financial hardship as a result.
 
Startline have already offered Mrs E £75 for the trouble and upset caused by what had 
happened, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no offer been made. So, I wont 
be asking Startline to increase their offer, and its now for Mrs E to decide whether to accept 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman