DRN-3798873
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the settlement offered by Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds) for a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S contacted Lloyds when she found a water leak in the bathroom of her home. Mrs S 
arranged for the repair work to be completed because she urgently needed her bathroom to 
be useable. Lloyds assessed the claim and paid the costs for some of the work, but didnt 
cover costs, such as for a new toilet.
Mrs S complained because she said the settlement offered was unfair and meant she wasnt 
able to cover the cost of all of the work that had been carried out. When Lloyds replied, it 
said it had based the settlement on the invoice for the works Mrs S had arranged to be 
carried out, but that it was only able to cover costs for items that were damaged as part of 
the claim. It said it had advised that evidence of damage to other items, such as the toilet, 
could be provided and it would then consider these.
When Mrs S complained this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said the 
settlement offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Lloyds agreed to settle the claim for the water leak. As a result, what Lloyds was required to 
do was to cover the cost of dealing with the damage caused by the leak. Mrs S had the 
repairs carried out very promptly, as she needed the bathroom to be in working order due to 
a health issue. However, this meant Lloyds was unable to inspect the damage. Instead, it 
based its settlement on the available information, which was mainly the plumbers invoice 
and responses from the plumber when Lloyds contacted him to get further information on the 
works carried out.
The plumbers invoice covered all the work carried out. Its my understanding that the 
bathroom had to stripped out to carry out the works. This included removing items such as 
the toilet. Where an item such as a toilet needs to be removed to carry out work, I would 
normally expect it to be refitted unless it was damaged by the water leak itself or there was a 
clear reason that showed it couldnt reasonably be refitted and should therefore be covered 
as part of the claim. I havent seen anything that showed items such as the toilet couldnt be 
refitted or that items such as the pipework or taps were covered by the claim.
Looking at what happened during this claim, I dont think it was initially clear what work was 
the direct result of the water leak. Lloyds contacted the plumber to go through the details and 
to confirm what costs applied to which parts of the works. Lloyds also explained to Mrs S 
that she could provide further evidence to show items were damaged as a result of the water 
leak where it didnt agree to cover those works, which it would then consider. Based on 
everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds made a fair cash settlement to deal with the damage 
based on the work that was required to deal with the water leak. As a result, I dont uphold 
this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman