DRN-2945400
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt extend his term assurance policy when he 
requested, which meant he didnt have any cover in place. Zurich has now offered Mr P 
£455 for the trouble and upset it caused. Mr P is unhappy with that amount. Initially he felt he 
should be paid £1,000 for every month he was without cover (£3,000) but has since said he 
wanted his time to be covered at his hourly rate totalling £1,575. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she understood that 
Mr P had spent time trying to resolve the complaint with Zurich. But she said the offer of 
£455 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Zurichs offer was wholly 
inadequate for the time he spent trying to resolve this issue from June to September 2020, 
and that he felt Zurich didnt want him as a customer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Zurich has admitted it made a mistake when dealing with this issue. And there is no dispute 
Mr P was inconvenienced because of what happened. Mr P is understandably frustrated with 
what happened here. But Im afraid I cant agree that he should be paid more trouble and 
upset in line with what hes asked for. 
When a business has done something wrong, we expect it to act fairly and reasonably when 
trying to put things right. We dont award trouble and upset payments by calculating an 
hourly rate. So, Ive looked at everything Zurich has done to try and resolve the complaint. 
And Ive considered whether its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line 
with awards this service would make in similar cases. 
Having done so, Im satisfied it is. I understand the reasons Mr P took the actions he did and 
the time he spent trying to resolve it. But Im satisfied with Zurichs explanation that he 
wouldve been covered if he had to claim whilst the policy was inactive. So, Zurichs offer to 
pay £455 for his costs and trouble and upset is fair. 
I also note Zurich decided to pay the first four months of contributions on his extended plan 
from June 2020 to September 2020  totalling £571.64. I believe thats fair in all the 
circumstances. 
So, I wont be asking Zurich to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman