DRN-3631105
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, havent honoured the 
terms of an account switching promotion that he qualified for.
What happened
Mr W switched his current account to Virgin to take advantage of a promotional account 
switching offer which included a reward of 15,000 Virgin Red points. When Mr W completed 
the switch, he qualified for the Virgin Red points and was sent a redemption code by Virgin. 
However, when Mr W checked the redemption code, he noticed that it was for a different 
promotional reward, specifically for a free box of wine. 
Mr W checked Virgins terms and conditions but could see nothing prohibiting him from 
accepting the box of wine as well as the Virgin Red points, so he redeemed the code. He 
then contacted Virgin to ask when he would receive the redemption code for the Virgin Red 
points, at which point he was told that the box of wine code had been sent in error but that 
because Mr W had redeemed that code, and received the wine, he was no longer eligible to 
receive the Virgin Red points. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Virgin looked at Mr Ws complaint. They confirmed that theyd sent Mr W the incorrect code 
and that Mr W remained ineligible for the Virgin Red points because hed redeemed the 
incorrectly sent code. However, Virgin apologised to Mr W for their error and made a 
payment of £100 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset it had caused.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that Virgin 
had issued to Mr Ws complaint, including the £100 compensation payment, already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin have acknowledged that they sent the incorrect offer redemption code to Mr W, and 
theyve apologised to Mr W for this and paid compensation of £100 to him. However, Virgin 
have confirmed that because Mr W redeemed the incorrectly sent code, they now deem him 
ineligible to receive the promotional reward of the Virgin Red points that should have been 
sent to him in the first instance.
I dont feel that Virgins position is unreasonable here. And while I can appreciate Mr W 
checked the terms and conditions before redeeming the code for the free box of wine, I feel 
that it should in all reasonableness have been apparent to Mr W that the code for the box of 
wine that hed received had likely been sent by Virgin by mistake, and I feel that Mr W 
should have raised this matter with Virgin before redeeming the incorrectly sent code and 
receiving the wine.
Indeed, had Mr W contacted Virgin before redeeming the incorrectly sent code, I feel its 
highly likely that he would have been instructed not to have redeemed that code, which 
could have been rendered invalid by Virgin before they sent Mr W a replacement redemption 
code for the Virgin Red points.
This of course means that the reward that Mr W has received for switching his account  the 
box of wine  is different to the reward he was expecting to receive  the Virgin Red points. 
But Virgin have made a payment of £100 to Mr W to compensate him for this point, and I feel 
that this amount does represent fair compensation for Mr W for what happened. 
Mr W has stated that he has no need for the wine and is willing to return it but does have a 
need for the Virgin Red points. However, Virgin have confirmed that they arent willing to 
accept the return of the wine, and I dont feel that theres any reasonable obligation for them 
to do so here. I also find it difficult to understand why, if Mr W had no need for the wine, he 
redeemed the incorrectly sent code in the first instance. 
Ultimately, I feel that by redeeming the incorrectly sent code, and receiving the box of wine, 
Mr W did tacitly accept the box of wine as his reward. And I dont feel that its fair that Virgin 
should be expected to provide a second reward to Mr W after hed already redeemed and 
accepted a reward sent to him  even taking into account that the reward code that Mr W did 
redeem had been sent to him in error.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr W was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Virgin to take any further action. I trust Mr W will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman