DRN-3110912
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt refund him a 
payment he made using his credit card.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr A made a purchase through an online marketplace which I will refer 
to as M. The item he purchased had a price of approximately £1,034. Mr A said that the 
package was delivered late and major parts were missing. He said he contacted the seller 
who asked him to open the package and check if the goods he purchased were inside. Mr A 
said that some of the goods were not inside, and now that the package was opened the 
seller refused to provide him with a refund and would not accept the return of the package. 
Mr A tried to resolve the issue by contacting M, but this was also not successful, so he 
contacted Barclaycard. Mr A said that Barclaycard misadvised him, as he said they 
shouldve first attempted a chargeback instead of treating his request as a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).   
Barclaycard said that their records show that Mr A contacted them on 22 April 2020, which 
they said was too late as it was over the allotted 120 days to raise a chargeback. They said 
that as they were out of time to raise a chargeback, they considered his claim under Section 
75. But, they said that there was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement for a 
Section 75 claim. They said that Mr A made his purchase through M which allows individuals 
to sell items via their platforms. They said the name on the statement was that of M and not 
the seller who sold the item, so they said there was a break in the D-C-S agreement. 
Mr A was not happy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She thought that 
there wasnt a valid D-C-S agreement for a valid Section 75 claim, and Mr A didnt raise a 
chargeback in the required time.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I know Mr A is also unhappy with the actions of M and the seller, but it is important to note 
that Im not considering their actions, including the way they operate in general. I want to 
make it clear that in my decision Im only considering Barclaycards response to Mr As 
complaint  and its not within my remit to require third parties, like the seller or M, to do 
anything. 
Chargeback
A chargeback is a scheme which looks to resolve payment disputes between card holders 
and merchants. There are set rules and criteria for when disputes can be raised; such as the 
type of dispute and time limits for raising them. Merchants wishing to accept cards as a form 
of payment from their customers need to agree to these scheme rules and criteria. And 
these rules and criteria must be followed strictly.
I would consider it good practice for Barclaycard to pursue a chargeback, as long as it was 
possible to do so (within the limitations of the scheme rules and criteria), and when there is a 
reasonable prospect of success. If Barclaycard had raised the chargeback, I think most likely 
it wouldve been raised under the dispute category of Merchandise/Services Not Received. 
Under this category, the chargeback needs to be processed no later than 120 calendar days 
from either the date of the transaction, or from the date the cardholder expected to receive 
the merchandise. I can see that the card transaction was made around 10 December 2019, 
and Mr A said that he was supposed to receive the goods between 13 and 20 of December 
2019. So, when Mr A raised the chargeback with Barclaycard on 22 April 2020 it wouldve 
been too late for Barclaycard to raise the chargeback as it was outside the 120 days. 
I know that Mr A disputes the fact that he raised the chargeback for the first time on 22 April 
2020, as he said that he called and wrote to Barclaycard prior to this date. He said that he 
phoned them on 13 January 2020 and his phone bill shows a 10-minute call to one of the 
Barclaycard numbers on this day. His phone bill also shows a second call to a Barclaycard 
number on 25 March 2020, and this call lasted 58 minutes. 
Barclaycard said they searched for calls made around those times and they have been 
unable to trace the calls in question. They say that any calls made to those numbers 
couldve been made to their automated service and not to an advisor. They explained that 
when logging a dispute either on the phone or online, it is registered to their internal system 
and this generates a letter (dispute form), which is sent to the cardholder. They said that 
their records show that they were contacted on 22 April 2020 and a letter was sent to Mr A 
dated 23 April 2020, and that Mr A returned their signed form which was dated 4 May 2020. 
So, they said they didnt receive any earlier contact relating to the purchase in question. And 
they have provided the call Mr A had with them on 22 April 2020.
So, Ive taken into consideration what both parties have told us, and the information they 
have provided to our service, to determine whether Mr A had raised his claim earlier than 22 
April 2020. Mr A has given us the phone bills that shows that he made two calls to Barclaycard. But I 
dont know if these calls connected to a Barclaycard advisor, and if they did, I dont know 
how long they lasted or what was discussed during these calls. One of the calls lasted 58 
minutes, but that doesnt necessarily mean that Mr A made contact with an advisor during 
that time. I say this because that call was during the Covid-19 pandemic, when businesses 
were dealing with a lot of calls and it was not unusual for consumers to have been on hold 
for prolonged periods of time. Also, Ive listened to the call Mr A had with Barclaycards 
agent on 22 April 2020, and from this recording it doesnt seem like he raised his claim 
previously. I say this because on this call Mr A doesnt say he is calling for an update on his 
claim, and he doesnt mention anything about the claim being previously raised. Based on 
what was discussed during this call it seems most likely Mr A was raising his claim for the 
first time. 
In addition, Ive taken into consideration what Mr A said about sending Barclaycard a letter, 
or an email, on 4 April 2020 outlining his claim. But he was unable to provide confirmation 
that this correspondence was sent. And I think had he raised his claim on three separate 
occasions, most likely Barclaycard wouldve raised the chargeback for him. The reason 
being is that a chargeback is a common task which banks deal with on regular basis, so 
most likely, it wouldnt have gone wrong on three separate occasions. Considering all of the 
above, Ive not seen enough for me to be able to say that most likely Mr A did raise the claim 
prior to 22 April 2020. And, at that time it was already too late for Barclaycard to raise the 
chargeback as it was outside of the 120 days.
Section 75 
The general effect of Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Barclaycard in this case) 
jointly and severally liable where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier of goods or services financed by the credit, provided certain conditions are 
met. 
One of the conditions is that there is a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor 
and the supplier. This is sometimes referred to as a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) 
agreement, and the formal wording is set out in Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
A D-C-S agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between the relevant
parties in order to be able to make a Section 75 claim.
The D-C-S agreement needed to exist between the debtor (Mr A), the creditor (Barclaycard), 
and the supplier. Mr A made his purchase on Ms platform, but the contract to buy the goods 
was made between Mr A and the supplier whereby M acted as an intermediary which 
facilitated the transaction between them. As part of this facilitation, M took the relevant 
payment for the goods from Mr A on his Barclaycard. M then passed this payment to the 
supplier which means that the D-C-S agreement was broken. So, while Mr A has my 
sympathy, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly in turning down the Section 75 claim.
I sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he is experiencing, but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think that Barclaycard has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr As Section 75 claim and his request for a chargeback. So, 
it is not fair or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to take any action in response to Mr 
As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman