DRN-3206109
The complaint
Mr T has complained about incorrect information that he was given about one of his pension 
policies by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. 
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
An ombudsman with this service previously sent her assessment of how this complaint 
should be fairly resolved to Mr T and Prudential. She is not available to continue to assess 
this complaint, and so I have been asked to look at it and decide how it should be resolved.
Mr T has a retirement annuity policy with Prudential that he took out in 1986. The policy 
guarantees that a basic pension will be paid at a specific date, in accordance with the policy 
terms. The guaranteed basic pension can increase each year through the addition of annual 
bonuses. 
Mr T was intending to take the benefits from the policy in 2020. He says that his independent 
financial adviser (IFA) was told by Prudential that this policy provided an annual pension of 
around £750. Because Mr T was concerned about stock market movements following the 
outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, he rang Prudential to check the value of the policy and 
was told that his annual pensions would be £720 a year.
Based on this information Mr T says that he chose to move other pension policies, and he 
then asked for payments under the Prudential policy to be made. However, at this point 
Prudential told him that the policy benefit was only for a pension of around £100 a year. Mr T 
asked Prudential to honour the earlier quote he had received for the policy and pay him a 
pension of £750 a year.
Prudential apologised for its level of service, but explained that the policy only provided an 
annual pension of around £100. It offered Mr T compensation of £100 for trouble and upset it 
had caused. It also said that it would consider compensating for fees that the IFA had 
charged in the course of carrying out additional work that had resulted from Prudential 
providing the overvaluation of the policy.
Unhappy with Prudentials stance, Mr T brought a complaint to this service. Prudential 
increased its offer of compensation to £250.
My colleague issued a provisional decision. Her view was that the £250 offer made by 
Prudential was fair. She also said that Prudential should reimburse Mr T for the cost of any 
additional advice he had to take from his IFA that had resulted from Prudential providing the 
incorrect policy value, subject to the IFAs invoices being submitted.
Mr T disagreed with the findings of my colleagues provisional decision. He stated that they 
did not accurately reflect the events that had occurred. Mr T says that, with advice from his 
IFA, based upon the valuations Prudential had provided stating that the policy offered a 
pension of around £750 a year, he chose to take that pension in 2020. When he made that 
decision, he says that these valuations represented the most recent he had received, so he 
considered it unlikely that they were incorrect.
Although he had received valuations in earlier years that showed the pension to be about 
£100 a year, Mr T says it was reasonable for him to accept the most recent valuations of 
either £720 or £750 as being accurate. He disagrees that he had sufficient reason to 
question Prudential about the accuracy of the more recent higher quotes. Mr T has 
mentioned other policies he has held with Prudential where it has given him incorrect 
information. He has asked what fines this service will apply to Prudential to reflect poor 
record keeping and providing inaccurate information. He has stated that it is unacceptable 
for a business to provide inaccurate information on multiple occasions.
Mr T says that although he has agreed to take the pension annuity under his policy, he has 
not received any payments from Prudential, and he has asked that any payments be 
backdated.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mr T has said that Prudential provided both him and his IFA with inaccurate information 
about his policy on several occasions, reinforcing his belief that the overvaluation it was 
quoting was correct.
In its submissions, Prudential has provided this service with a number of historical valuations 
that it issued for this policy. With the valuations issued in September 2014, March 2017 and 
January 2019, Prudential confirmed that the guaranteed basic pension available to Mr T in 
2019 was around £100 a year. On 5 May 2020 quote, Prudential again showed the basic 
pension to be around £100 a year.
Prudentials records confirm that during a phone call on 11 May 2020, one of its employees 
told Mr T that the pension was for £720 a year. This is in line with what Mr T has said he was 
told by Prudential. Mr T says it was confirmed twice to him over the phone that £720 was the 
annual pension amount available. In terms of written quotations, I can see that in March 
2018, a valuation was sent to Mr Ts IFA that showed the guaranteed annual pension was 
£720.
It is clear therefore that Prudential did misquote the value of the policy to Mr T and his IFA. 
However, it is the case that valuations sent to Mr T in 2014, 2017, 2019 and 2020 showed 
the accurate, lower pension amount. My view is that it would not be reasonable for me to 
require Prudential to pay Mr T his pension based on the overquoted value. Thats because 
the premiums he initially paid into the policy provided for an annual pension of around £100, 
rather than over £700. In addition, my view is that the correct valuations Mr T had received 
over a number of years should reasonably have led him to question whether the overquoted 
valuations (which were seven times higher than the correct value) were accurate.
Mr T has mentioned fining Prudential for its inaccuracies and poor record keeping, but I 
should clarify that the role given to this service does not include fining businesses for their 
actions. Instead where a business has made an error, as is clearly the case here, I can 
make an award for financial loss that has been caused to a consumer, and I can also award 
for distress the error has caused the consumer.
Prudential initially offered Mr T £100 for distress caused to him, and later increased this to 
£250. Taking into account the difficulties Mr T has described he experienced as a result of 
Prudentials errors, and considering awards made on cases with similar circumstances, my view is that the offer of £250 compensation is a reasonable one.
I also consider it fair that Prudential pay the reasonable costs of any additional work Mr Ts 
IFA may have had to invoice Mr T for that resulted from Prudential providing incorrect 
valuations.
In terms of Mr Ts comments that he has agreed to take the annuity under his policy but has 
not as yet received any payments, he will need to contact Prudential directly to find out what 
the current position is, and to see if payments are to be backdated.
Responses to my provisional decision
Prudential responded that it agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr T has suggested that before I reach my final decision, I should contact Prudential, ask 
them about other policies that he has had with it, and consider misleading information that 
has been provided about those policies. He has explained that he has raised complaints with 
Prudential over the years about these other policies, and one of these other complaints 
remains ongoing.
To accompany these comments, Mr T has copied me in on correspondence that he is 
currently having with Prudential about one of his other policies  a section 32 buyout plan. I 
understand from this correspondence that the value of the section 32 plan quoted by 
Prudential has fallen, and also that Mr T expected to receive benefits from the section 32 
plan from March 2020. Mr T mentions in the correspondence that he considers the section 
32 plan was mis-sold to him.
Mr T has highlighted that he has yet to receive any pension payments from the policy that is 
the subject of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr T remains dissatisfied about his dealings with Prudential in relation to 
various policies that he has with the business. Whilst I note his comments about the way 
Prudential has administered his policies, I should clarify that this complaint relates only to his 
retirement annuity policy, and the incorrect valuations Prudential provided for this policy. For 
that reason, I do not intend to contact Prudential to ask it for details relating to Mr Ts other 
policies.
If Mr T is unhappy about the ongoing service he is receiving for other policies he holds with 
Prudential, including the section 32 plan that he has copied this service into correspondence 
about, he will need to raise those concerns in the first instance with Prudential, if he has not 
already done so.
Mr T has reiterated that he has not started to be paid his pension from his retirement annuity 
policy. As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr T will need to contact Prudential directly 
to establish what is happening with the setting up of his annuity payments, and whether 
these are to be backdated.
In terms of Mr Ts complaint about the inaccurate information he was given about his 
retirement annuity policy by Prudential, having considered the responses to my provisional 
decision provided by the parties, my view remains as explained in that provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr T 
£250 to reflect the distress caused to him by its errors.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited must also reimburse Mr T for the reasonable 
cost of any additional financial advice he had to pay for that was the result of him being 
given incorrect policy valuations for his retirement annuity policy. Mr T will need to provide 
his IFAs invoices to evidence these costs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman