The complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold him a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mr S took out the policy by filling in a form in a shop in 2003.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in June 2020 in which I explained why I wasnt considering 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. AXA confirmed that it had nothing to add. No 
response was received from Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says he wasnt aware that PPI had been included as part of the store card account  
meaning it was added without his knowledge or consent. However, Ive seen a copy of the 
application form that Mr S filled in at the time. There is a separate section for PPI and an 
applicant had to sign a box in that section to request the policy. Mr S has signed in the box. 
He could have left it blank if he hadnt wanted PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection of events 
has faded. Overall, looking at the available evidence, I think that Mr S would have known 
that he had a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
AXA didnt advise Mr S to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But AXA did need to provide Mr S with enough information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
DRN-1978702Mr S has told us that hed only have received statutory sick pay if he was off work sick. And 
he had no other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could have 
provided a useful benefit to Mr S at what would have been a difficult time.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr S had only been in his job for one 
month when he bought the policy and that this would affect his ability to successfully claim 
for the unemployment benefit provided by the policy. However, looking at the policy terms, it 
is the six months prior to making a claim in which someone had to be in continuous 
employment, not the six months prior to the start date of the policy. So, in Mr Ss situation, 
he would have been able to make a claim for unemployment five months after hed taken out 
the PPI. As Mr S had only been in his job for a month, I doubt hed have thought hed get 
made redundant during the following five months. So, if hed been told about this limitation in 
relation to the unemployment benefit, I think he would have gone ahead with buying the 
policy anyway.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about other parts 
of the policy, particularly about the things it didnt cover such a pre-existing medical 
conditions. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those things. As I consider that Mr S had an 
interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have 
caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything AXA may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to do to put things right.
As no substantive comments were received in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my original conclusions. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman