DRN-3493807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold an Advance Account (AA) in June 2006 by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were told by HSBC that taking out the AA would enable them to 
keep the mortgage rate they had, and this was why they bought it. They say that they found 
out this wasnt true, and the AA was unsuitable for them and they didnt want or need it.
HSBC says that it didnt tell Mr and Mrs R that they needed the AA to maintain their 
mortgage rate. It says that it provided the correct information about the AA cost and benefits 
and Mr and Mrs R and they chose to open the account based on that.
The sale of the AA took place in a meeting over 15 years ago and I wasnt there, so I cant 
know what was said. I can only look at the evidence available today and consider the 
testimony of both parties to make my decision.
While I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Rs honest recollections, I think its more likely than not their 
memory of the sale is mistaken. I say this for the following reasons.
In Mr and Mrs Rs original complaint to HSBC they said that they were told they had to take 
out the AA to improve their chance of getting a mortgage and a better mortgage rate.
But HSBC has provided evidence that the discussion and arrangement of the mortgage took 
place in April and May before the AA was taken out. 
And it has also provided evidence that the AA did not have a preferential mortgage rate as a 
benefit after September 2006.
So, I think its more likely than not that HSBC didnt say in June 2006 that Mr and Mrs R 
needed the AA to keep their already arranged mortgage rate.
Both parties agree that Mr and Mrs R both had individual fee free accounts with overdrafts 
with HSBC for many years before the AA sale, so they knew these were available and they 
werent under any pressure to take out an AA.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew they had a choice and chose to 
take out the AA based on the information HSBC gave them.
Ive not seen any evidence such an assessment of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances to suggest 
that advice was given, or a recommendation made. And this service is aware that HSBCs 
practice at the time was that sales were non-advised.
So, I think its more likely than not this was a non-advised sale, and so HSBC was only 
required to provide enough information about the AA for Mr and Mrs R to make an informed 
decision.
And I think it did.
I say this because both parties agree there was a discussion about the AA, and HSBC has 
provided evidence that it gave them a welcome pack with all the information in it. And Mr and 
Mrs R could have closed the account any time after 12 months but didnt and kept it for 
many years.
HSBC has also provided evidence that in the month the AA was opened a very large deposit 
went into Mr and Mrs Rs savings account and they enjoyed better interest rates on that 
deposit through having the AA. They also travelled abroad shortly after the sale where they 
would have had the cover of the main AA benefit which was travel insurance. So, I can see 
why they would have been interested in the AA.
So, in my view, I think its more likely than not that HSBC didnt do anything wrong in the 
sale of the AA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman