DRN-1427378
The complaint
Mr I complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr I under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse that he 
electronically signed in October 2018. He returned the car to the dealer later that month 
because the brakes were squeaking and it stripped and cleaned the brakes. But he says that 
they were still squeaking so they were checked by a manufacturer's dealer in November 
2018. He took the car to a manufacturer's dealer in May 2019 because of noise from the 
clutch and fly-wheel. 
He then complained to Black Horse. It upheld his complaint about the noise from the brakes 
and said that it supported the actions taken by the dealer but offered him £75 compensation 
for the trouble and upset that he'd been caused. It said that he hadn't complained about the 
issue with the clutch and fly-wheel until he'd had the car for more than six months and he'd 
used it to drive about 7,000 miles so it was a wear and tear issue.
Mr I didn't accept its offer and wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service. He says that he wants to reject the car because the brakes are defective and that 
he's complained about that from the beginning.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
issue with the brakes was dealt with appropriately and the car now needed repairs to the 
clutch and fly-wheel but given the age and mileage of the car he couldn't say that it was sold 
in an unsatisfactory condition.
Mr I has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he's 
provided recordings of phone calls from October 2018, after the brakes had been stripped 
and cleaned, which show that they were still squeaking. He says that he gave the dealer a 
second opportunity to repair the issue but the fault hasn't been remedied, the car isn't fit for 
purpose and he's exercising his right to reject the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr I. Whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied to Mr I was more than a year and half old, had been driven for 
38,454 miles and had a price of £14,091.67. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Mr I complained about the car's brakes squeaking soon after the car was supplied to him. 
The dealer stripped and cleaned the brakes but Mr I says that the squeaking continued. A 
manufacturer's dealer inspected the car in November 2018, about six weeks after it had 
been supplied to Mr I, and its mileage was recorded as 40,020 - so in that time he'd been 
able to drive more than 1,500 miles in it. The vehicle health check that was completed at that 
time recommended that the brakes were stripped, cleaned and de-glazed and says that the 
recommended work was authorised.
Mr I continued to use the car and I've seen no evidence to show that he made any further 
complaint about the car until he returned it to the manufacturer's dealer in May 2019. Issues 
with the car's clutch and fly wheel were identified with an estimated repair cost of £2,205.58. 
The car's mileage was recorded as 45,788 so Mr I had been able to drive more than 7,000 
miles in it and the manufacturer's dealer said that the issues were caused by wear and tear.
There was clearly an issue with the car's brakes soon after the car was supplied to Mr I.The 
brakes were stripped and cleaned by the dealer but Mr I says that they continued to squeak. 
A manufacturer's dealer recommended in November 2018 that the brakes should be 
stripped, cleaned and de-glazed and Mr I has continued to use the car since then. Black 
Horse has offered to pay him £75 to compensate him for the trouble and upset that he's 
been caused. I'm not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Black Horse to allow Mr I to reject the car because of the issue with its brakes. I consider 
that the £75 compensation that it's offered to him is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.
The car was inspected before it was supplied to Mr I and the manufacturer's dealer checked 
the car in November 2018 - but no issue with the car's clutch or fly-wheel was identified. I've 
seen no evidence to show that Mr I complained about those issues until May 2019 and by  
then he'd driven more than 7,000 miles in the car. If there had been a fault with the car's 
clutch or fly-wheel when it was supplied to him I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect him to have noticed the fault much sooner than he did - and that he wouldn't have 
been able to drive 7,000 miles in it.
I'm not persuaded that there's enough evidence to show that the car's clutch or fly-wheel 
were faulty when the car was supplied to Mr I or that the car wasn't of satisfactory quality at 
that time because of those issues.  I find that it wouldn't be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Black Horse to accept Mr I's rejection of the car or to pay for 
any repairs to the car. I consider that it's offer to pay him £75 is fair and reasonable and I 
don't consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any other action 
in response to his complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that, if it hasn't already done so, Black Horse Limited 
should pay to Mr I the £75 compensation that it has offered to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman