DRN-1436429
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way TSB Bank plc (TSB) treated him when he had 
difficulties repaying a loan.
What happened
Mr M took out a personal loan with TSB on 11 May 2017. He made loan repayments 
until December 2017. In January 2018 Mr M told TSB he was experiencing financial difficulty 
as a result of a medical problem. He missed a total of eleven loan repayments and was 
charged interest by TSB. Mr M is now making loan repayments but continues to be in 
arrears.
In March 2018 TSB decided Mr M was vulnerable and accepted an offer to repay £50 
a month. As payments werent received TSB contacted Mr M and discussed his situation. 
Mr M said hed sent medical evidence in on a number of occasions. He was given a 
different address to send it to. In the meantime TSB agreed to remove upcoming charges 
from Mr Ms account.
In August 2018 TSB reviewed Mr Ms medical evidence and asked for an updated 
income and expenditure form. In October TSB offered Mr M an informal repayment plan, but 
he declined as he didnt want his credit file to be affected. TSB offered to refund the 
previous months interest, but this didnt happen because Mr M wasnt happy with the 
informal plan. Mr M was asked for an updated income and expenditure form.
Mr M raised a complaint in October 2018. He asked TSB to refund all loan interest from 
the date he took the loan out. In response TSB said they had acted appropriately in adding 
loan interest.
In January 2019 TSB froze interest on Mr Ms account because of his financial difficulties. 
In February they agreed to refund all interest payments from March 2018 to February 
2019. Mr M was unhappy with TSBs response so brought his complaint here. He wanted 
TSB to refund all interest charges from the time he took out the loan in May 2017. Mr M 
also referred to a default notice he received in August 2019 when TSB told him his 
account wouldnt be sent to the recoveries department.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said TSB were required to act 
positively and sympathetically to Mr M, and had done so. Once TSB was aware of Mr Ms 
medical condition they froze future interest payments and refunded interest to the date they 
received medical evidence. TSB had also gathered income and expenditure information to 
assess how much Mr M could afford to pay and gave him time to pay. The investigator 
also commented on the fact TSB had agreed to maintain Mr Ms account in its 
collections department, rather than transferring it to its recoveries department. Finally, the 
investigator explained that the default notice was sent in error.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision. He still felt TSB should 
refund all interest from the start of the loan and said they shouldnt record anything on his 
credit file.I issued my provisional decision on 16 December 2019. I said The Consumer Credit 
sourcebook requires a lender to treat a customer fairly in relation to financial difficulty, so I 
looked at whether TSB had done so. 
The main issue seemed to be the date from which TSB agreed to refund loan interest to Mr 
M. He felt it should be refunded from the date he took his loan out in May 2017. TSB 
refunded interest from the date Mr Ms general practitioner (GP) provided evidence to say Mr 
M suffered from a medical condition that affected his ability to manage his money. I said TSB 
could only be expected to take action once they were aware there was a problem, or it 
became apparent because payments werent made. Mr M missed his first payment in 
December 2017 and told TSB he was having difficulties repaying in January 2018. Before 
this TSB had no reason to believe Mr M was having any problems repaying his loan. So I 
said I didnt consider TSB could reasonably be asked to waive interest from the start of the 
loan, but acted reasonably in doing so from the date of Mr Ms GP evidence. 
I said in my provisional decision TSB could have done more for Mr M at a difficult time. They 
asked Mr M to send in GP evidence they already had on a number of occasions and didnt 
assess the evidence until nearly four months after they received it. This caused Mr M 
additional stress and inconvenience. Although TSB took steps to understand Mr Ms income 
and expenditure, they didnt freeze interest on his loan account and refund interest from 
March 2018 until January and February 2019. I felt the decision could have been made 
sooner. I noted that had Mr M told TSB about his health when he applied for the loan it was 
possible TSB wouldnt have given it to him. 
Taking in to account TSBs requests for medical evidence and delay in considering it, as well 
as the length of time taken to reach their decision about interest, I said TSB should pay Mr M 
£150. But I said that given the number of payments Mr M had missed TSB could reasonably 
record arrears on Mr Ms credit file. Finally, I accepted TSB sent Mr M an arrears notice in 
error. Although receiving the notice would have stressed Mr M at a difficult time, I said TSB 
had apologised and put things right as soon as it was aware there was a problem. So I didnt 
ask TSB to do anything more. 
Mr M responded and said he didnt feel he should have disclosed his health condition when 
he applied for the loan. But Mr M said he could accept my provisional findings if TSB took 
responsibility for causing him undue stress and inconvenience in the way they handled his 
medical evidence. 
TSB said they had nothing further to add and accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision, I'm upholding it in part. I'll explain why.
Mr M has said he didnt tell TSB about his health problems when he took the loan out 
because he didnt feel comfortable giving that information to those outside of the medical 
profession. I understand this. But I think the real point is that I cant expect TSB to help Mr M 
if they didnt know he was experiencing difficulties. In May 2017 TSB werent given any 
information to suggest Mr M may struggle to make his payments. The first indication TSB 
had that there might be a problem was when he missed a payment in December 2018. It 
wasnt until January 2019 that Mr M told TSB his health was affecting his ability to make 
payments. Given these points I think TSB acted fairly in refunding interest payments to Mr M 
from the date of his GP evidence confirming his health was affecting his ability to manage 
his money. I still consider TSB should pay Mr M £150 to reflect the additional inconvenience and stress 
they caused Mr M, for the same reasons. Mr M sent TSB GP evidence, but was told they 
hadnt received it. He had to chase TSB and was asked to re-send the evidence on a 
number of occasions. Its clear TSB received the GP evidence on 3 April 2018, as it is date 
stamped, but they didnt review it until 14 August 2018. As well as this Im not persuaded 
TSB froze interest charges and refunded interest as soon as they could. TSB made matters 
worse for Mr M at a difficult time.
Mr M missed a large number of payments, so Im satisfied its reasonable for TSB to record 
arrears on his credit file. Finally, I accept TSB made a mistake in sending Mr M a default 
notice. They have apologised and put things right as soon as they were aware there was a 
problem, so Im not asking them to do anything more. 
Putting things right
Having considered the additional points raised Ive reached the same decision I set out in my 
provisional decision. TSB have caused Mr M additional stress and inconvenience at a time 
that was already difficult for him, so should pay him £150 to reflect this. But they acted 
reasonably in refunding interest from March 2018 rather than from the date of the loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr M £150 for the trouble and upset they 
have caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 03 March 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman