DRN-2944276
The complaint
Mrs W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (Marbles) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs W had a Marbles card since 2003. Between 2013 and 2016, her limit was increased
several times:
In June 2017, her debt was sold to a debt collection agency.
Mrs W complained that she shouldnt have been offered the increases. Her income was only 
disability benefits of £700 per month and her minimum payments to Marbles were half her 
income. She said her borrowing was up to the limit and she only paid the minimum each 
month. Marbles shouldve asked more questions of her circumstances before increasing the 
limit. She said all interest and fees should be refunded since the increase in 2013.
Marbles said Mrs W passed their credit tests at each increase. Mrs W was offered the 
chance to opt out of each increase but didnt. She hadnt let Marbles know of her situation at 
any time  until 2017, when she told them she was in financial difficulty. So  as far as they 
were concerned, their lending decisions were sound.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said we could only consider Mrs Ws 
complaint for the increases since July 2014  because the other increases were more than 
six years before Mrs Ws complaint to Marbles in July 2020. She thought that Marbles 
shouldve done more checks at each increase. Marbles didnt ask for any evidence of 
income and expenditure. She confirmed that Mrs Ws income was £700 per month as her 
sole income. She discounted her husbands income as part of her analysis. She looked at 
Mrs Ws outgoings and found they were about the same as her income each month. If 
Marbles had done further checks, they would have seen from Mrs Ws bank statements that 
she was relying on other sources of credit to make ends meet. She said that Marbles 
should refund interest and fees since October 2014 and remove any adverse information 
from Mrs Ws credit file.
Marbles disagreed and asked that Mrs Ws complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Date Limit
Pre May 2013 £3000
May 2013 £6000
February 2014 £9000
October 2014 £10350
June 2015 £11950
February 2016 £13750I take a different view to our investigator and will explain why. In summary, I can see that 
Mrs W managed her account with Marbles well, and this gave no indication that she was in 
difficulty  so Marbles couldnt have been expected to ask for more information from her.
In looking at whether Marbles lent responsibly - all lenders have an obligation to lend money 
responsibly. We have to check whether Marbles acted in line within the Financial Conducts 
(FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. 
These say that a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, 
considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk 
to the customer of not being able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
The Financial Ombudsman service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules 
covering complaints, known as DISP rules (DISP 2.8.2). They state that we cant consider a 
complaint if its referred to us more than six years after the event complained about, or if 
later, three years from the date on which the complainant ought reasonably to have been 
aware they had cause to complain. Mrs W complained to Marbles in July 2020  so we cant 
look at anything that happened before July 2014. So  we can only look at the increases in 
limit from the October 2014 increase.
I realise Mr W feels the problems shes experienced are as a result of actions by Marbles 
before July 2014. That may be the case. But, unfortunately, I cant help with anything before 
then. The rules of what this service can and cant look at mean I dont have the legal power 
to do so. If I were to make any finding on Marbles actions before July 2014, they would not 
be enforceable. That wouldnt help Mrs W.
What specific steps a lender should take to determine whether lending isnt going to cause a 
potential borrower a problem in repaying the money arent set down. So, its difficult to say 
that any particular action (or lack of) isnt appropriate. These must always be considered in 
the light of a customers circumstances. But it does seem odd that a lender can provide what 
seems to be relatively high level of credit without having some evidence of the potential 
borrowers income. In Mrs Ws case, that initial lending isnt something I can look at. So  to 
be clear, I cant make a finding on what Marbles did before July 2014. And  by then, Mrs W 
already had a limit of £9000  which was most of her debt.
Ive looked at what Mrs W and Marbles have told us. Ive looked at the information Marbles 
had when they offered the increases to Mrs W. I consider the information shows nothing to 
suggest that Mrs W was in difficulty. I can see that she had made every payment on time. 
So, there were no late payment fees. She hadnt withdrawn cash on the card  an indicator 
of problems. There wasnt any evidence of other loans with payday lenders. Ive look at Mrs 
Ws Marbles statements. These show that she operated her account very well  she was 
within her limits over a long period of time  she didnt borrow up to her limit at all. Ive 
shown this below:
Date Limit Average Statement balance for previous six months
Up to May 2013 £3000 £1236
Up to February 2014 £6000 £3110
Up to October 2014 £9000 £5200
Up to June 2015 £10350 £7368
Up to February 2016 £11950 £8946
Mrs W told us she sometimes had to pay her rent with her card. But Ive also looked at what 
she spent on her card  it was mostly retail expenditure (shopping) and I can also see that a 
lot of it is what we might call discretionary expenditure. So  I wonder how necessary some 
of her spending was. But also  retail spending wouldnt have caused Marbles to be on 
notice there were problems.
Marbles credit searches didnt show any other borrowing with other lenders at the time of the 
increases.
Mrs W argued that her husbands salary shouldnt have been considered - but she hasnt 
brought forward any evidence that he had significant loan commitments  and his salary was 
paid into her bank account. So  I dont think its reasonable to ignore his income.
Ive looked at Mrs Ws bank account  there are some loan payments to three or four other 
lenders  but not high cost providers. But, what Ive seen, I dont think Marbles needed to 
ask to see her bank statements. In March 2017 (after the last increase), Marbles could see 
she had total credit card borrowing (from all lenders) of just over £15000. This included the 
Marbles card, so there wasnt evidence of a lot of other borrowing at the time. Marbles have 
also shown us evidence that Mrs W couldve opted out of the offered increases each time  
but she didnt. Mrs W says she was in financial difficulty  but she didnt call Marbles to say 
so  she first contacted them in 2017  after the increases took place.
I accept that a credit card limit of £13,750 is high for any consumer. But  based on what Ive 
seen, I consider that Marbles werent wrong in not asking Mrs W for more information when 
making their decisions to offer an increase in limit. And so, my provisional decision, subject 
to any comments that either Mrs W or Marbles may have, is to not uphold this complaint.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Marbles nor Mrs W had any comments.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Marbles and Mrs W had no comments, I wont be departing from my provisional 
decision and for the reasons I gave in it.
So, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. And therefore, Marbles dont have 
to do anymore.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman