DRN-3651164
The complaint
Mrs R complained because National Savings and Investments (NS&I) said her account had 
been closed with a nil balance in February 2012. Mrs R doesnt agree and wants the money 
in the account, plus accrued interest.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs R contacted NS&I about an old account. She spoke to NS&Is department 
which dealt with dormant accounts, and at their request sent in her passbook. This showed 
an account balance from around 2003 for £452.20. Mrs R also completed a repayment form 
for the account.
But NS&I told Mrs R that the account had previously been closed. Mrs R didnt agree, saying 
that if shed withdrawn the money, there would have been a stamped entry and a nil balance 
showing in the passbook shed sent to NS&I. She said she hadnt taken the money out any 
other way.
Mrs R rang NS&I several times, and she also wrote paper letters because NS&I told her it 
didnt have a facility for electronic communications. NS&I didnt agree that there was any 
outstanding balance. It said that it had sent her a replacement book, and at the end of 
December 2006, the balance had been £589.77. NS&I said that that it could repay money 
without seeing a passbook, and there had been withdrawals for:
- £450.00 on 28 July 2007;
- £157.92 on 1 February 2012; and
- a final payment of £21.59 just over a week later, which closed the account.
NS&I said that it couldnt provide details of how or where the money was paid out, because it 
only kept details of transactions for six years. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, and contacted this service. She said that shed 
withdrawn £5,000 in 2003, and as far as she was concerned, NS&I owe her £589.77. She 
said NS&I hadnt produced any evidence that shed withdrawn the money. She also said 
shed never received any new book with a balance of £589.77, and hadnt withdrawn it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. She said there would have been security 
procedures in place for withdrawals, and also NS&I would have sent Mrs R a letter 
confirming the account closure. Shed also seen no explanation about how a third party 
could have withdrawn the money without Mrs Rs knowledge.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said that :
- NS&I claimed shed withdrawn £450 on 28 July 2007, but that was a Saturday when 
the sub-Post Office she used was closed for half a day, and when shed been on 
holiday abroad;
- NS&I had said that the money could be withdrawn without the passbook, but this had 
obviously been done but not by her, or anyone else with her knowledge or consent; 
and
- Her dealings with NS&I hadnt been satisfactory or reassuring, and theyd lost many 
items shed sent them, some more than once. So she thought it wasnt the most 
efficient organisation shed dealt with.
Our investigator clarified to Mrs R that NS&I had told her that the process was that a 
customer would go to a Post Office to ask for a withdrawal form, which theyd then submit to 
NS&I via the Post Office, along with the book. NS&I would then send a crossed warrant, like 
a cheque, to the customers home address. As Mrs R had said that shed been on holiday 
abroad on 28 July 2007, the investigator asked whether, despite the fact it was a long time 
ago, Mrs R might have anything to prove this.
Mrs R didnt send any evidence that shed been abroad in late July 2007, but she pointed out 
that if a replacement passbook had been delivered to the wrong address, there would be 
nothing to prevent a dishonest person using the new book to withdrawn the balance at any 
post office branch. Mrs R thought this was probably how it was done. She also said that she 
felt our decision making was weighted in favour of NS&I. She hadnt undertaken any 
transactions after the ones in her book, and nor had she ever received a new book, or a 
letter of account closure.  Mrs R asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs R is quite sure she didnt make any withdrawals after whats shown in 
her old passbook, and also that she didnt receive a replacement passbook or any closure 
letter. I understand her frustration when she feels so strongly. 
But unfortunately, the evidence is limited, because financial organisations dont have to keep 
records indefinitely, and they usually only keep them for six years. So theres no record of 
the forms used for the disputed withdrawal in July 2007, or the withdrawal or closure in 
February 2012. This is a pity because it would hopefully have shown the signature on the 
forms, which would have helped identify who had carried out the withdrawals.  
Similarly, although Mrs R was sure shed been on holiday in late July 2007, she wasnt able 
to provide us with any evidence, which again is understandable after such a long time.
Mrs R has provided a copy of her old passbook, which shows a balance of £452.20 as the 
last entry. But whenever a new passbook was issued, it was standard practice not to require 
the old passbook to be handed in. This was because it would mean customers who said they 
couldnt find their passbook wouldnt be able to access their money. So the fact that Mrs R 
still has an old passbook doesnt necessarily mean that the money recorded in it, is still 
available.
There are computer codes on some of the NS&I records, and I asked NS&I for more 
information about these. The evidence it provided in reply, including other examples where 
the same codes had been used, showed that the codes meant withdrawals had taken place. 
After the July 2017 £450 withdrawal, the NS&I record then shows annual interest capitalised 
early each calendar year until the closure in early February 2012.
Having studied the available records, I think its more likely than not that a replacement book 
was issued following a request in late 2006 with a balance of £589.77.  The difference 
between this figure and Mrs Rs last balance in her book of £452.20 can be explained by 
interest, especially at a time when interest rates were higher. I also accept that there was a 
withdrawal of £450 in July 2007, prior to the final closure in February 2012.Ive considered whether or not its likely that a third party carried out the disputed 
withdrawals.  I understand Mrs Rs argument that, if the new book were delivered to the 
wrong address, someone might have got hold of the book and fraudulently taken out money. 
This could be consistent with someone knowing that Mrs R was away on holiday. 
There are problems with this theory, though. First, NS&Is procedure for withdrawals 
included requiring the account holders signature, and an account holders signature was 
checked against records. And even if a fraudster had convincingly reproduced Mrs Rs 
signature, theres another issue. Fraudsters dont generally leave money in an account. The 
new book would have shown the balance as £589.77. But the amount withdrawn in July 
2007 was £450. I think any fraudster would have taken out the whole balance. They wouldnt 
have withdrawn £450, leaving around £140 in the account, then waited five years before 
taking out the full balance. 
As I think its not likely that a fraudster carried out the 2007 and 2012 withdrawals, I think its 
most likely that Mrs R carried out the withdrawals and closure herself. I accept theres now 
no money remaining in her account, so I dont require NS&I to pay her the balance showing 
in her old passbook.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman