DRN-2754986
Complaint
Mr E says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr E completed a postal application form for a credit card in 2000.The PPI policy started at 
the same time as the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Es complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
At the time of the sale, Barclays had to make it clear that the policy was optional, and it had 
to gain Mr Es consent being applying PPI to his account. Mr E has said that he didnt  
actively choose PPI. He says while he filled in the application form where applicable, he 
didnt see any mention of PPI or knew that he was agreeing to it.
Looking closely at Mr Es credit card application form, under the Payment Protection 
Insurance section I can see that Mr E was given the option of ticking next to the statement 
Yes, I do require Payment Protection Insurance. On Mr Es application form, there is what 
appears to be a tick next to the statement Yes, I do require Payment Protection Insurance 
indicating that he wanted it. Mr E also signed the application form agreeing to its contents.
Looking at Mr Es statements, I can also see the PPI would have appeared on them and I 
think it would have been quite prominent. So, whilst Mr E has said he didnt actively choose 
it, I think its likely he would have seen this and if he wasnt sure what it was for, I would have 
expected him to query the transactions with Barclays much sooner than he did.
The sale took place over 20 years ago, so its quite possible Mr E may not remember all of 
the details now. But having considered all of the available information, I think Barclays made 
it clear that the PPI was an optional product and Mr E chose to take it.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr E has said about needing to keep the costs down 
and manage his finances. However, Mr E opted to take out PPI, along with card protection 
when completing the application form. If Mr E didnt want to have either of these options at 
the time, he could have applied for the credit card without selecting these products.  
Both parties agree that Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E, so it didnt have to check 
if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr E was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected 
by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I 
also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr E.
Mr E has told us he would have been entitled to six months full followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work and his job came with a redundancy 
package. He has also told us he didnt have any savings at the time of the sale. 
Having thought about what Mr E has said about his sick pay and redundancy pay, I dont 
think this means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay he would have received from his employer and 
would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  up to 
twelve months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr E was ever made redundant for 
up to twelve months, in addition to any redundancy payment he would have received from 
his employer.
So overall. I think Mr E could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr E, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold the complaint. So Barclays Bank UK PLC does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman