DRN-3898561
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society are holding him liable for ATM withdrawals 
he says he didnt make. Hed like to be refunded.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Nationwide. In August 2022 he got in touch to say there were 
transactions on his account that he didnt recognise  three ATM withdrawals in July 2022. 
He reported this to Nationwide. Mr S told Nationwide that he had noted his PIN down, and 
because of his circumstances had allowed other people to use his card to make withdrawals. 
But he was adamant that he did not carry out these withdrawals or allow someone else to do 
so. Nationwide declined to refund him.
Mr S complained about this outcome, saying that Nationwide had told him on the phone that 
theyd been provided with CCTV, which wasnt the case. He said when hed spoken to the 
police, theyd said that the CCTV wasnt working. But Nationwide didnt change their minds.
Unhappy with this answer Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He said he wasnt in 
the area of the ATM withdrawals at the time, and neither was anyone he had previously 
allowed to use the card. Our investigator couldnt see how someone other than Mr S or 
someone with his consent were using the card, so on that basis she didnt think Nationwide 
were liable to refund him.
Mr S disagreed. He said he had been told that Nationwide had checked the CCTV and 
provided information about card cloning. The investigator didnt agree that Nationwide had 
said theyd reviewed CCTV. She was satisfied that Mr S genuine card had been used. As 
Mr S still disagreed with the findings the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) say, in summary, that a payment service 
provider should generally refund a transaction that comes out of one of their consumers 
accounts that they didnt authorise. There are limited exceptions to this, such as when the 
consumer has breached their obligations to keep their security credentials secure either 
intentionally, or by being grossly negligent with them.
As the complaint stems from the use of a card in an ATM in the UK, Im satisfied that they 
could only have happened if the ATM read the genuine chip on the card and the correct PIN 
entered. Mr S has sent in information about card cloning to explain why this may be. Its 
known that a magnetic strip on a debit card can be copied, but its not generally thought 
possible to clone the data on the chip. Our service has not seen a situation where we 
thought this was the most likely explanation for what happened. If a fraudster had managed 
to do something as sophisticated as discover how to clone the chip of Mr S card, I dont 
think it likely they would then go on to only carry out a number of relatively small value ATM 
transactions, close to Mr S home address, compared to the amounts they could have taken 
from the account. So, in the circumstances Im persuaded it was Mr S genuine card that was 
used to carry out the withdrawals. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about not being near the location of the withdrawals  
but I can say his card was. I also note from his calls with Nationwide he said he was away at 
the start of August 2022. But this is several weeks after the disputed withdrawals. There are 
transactions Mr S hasnt disputed between the ATM withdrawals using the genuine card  
for contactless purchases and chip and PIN transactions. If someone other than Mr S was 
using the card, they would need to have access to take it, carry out the withdrawal, and then 
replace it before Mr S found out. In his call to Nationwide to report the ATM withdrawals he 
tells them he still has the card. This means its very unlikely that the transactions were 
carried out by someone unknown to him. 
I can also see from Nationwides online banking records that Mr S accessed his mobile 
banking on the days of the withdrawals, and after the last of the withdrawals. This included 
accessing the full statements for the account. So, Mr S could have noticed anything 
unexpected or unusual at the time and reported it. But it doesnt appear he doesnt raise a 
dispute about the withdrawals until a month later. 
Ive reviewed the phone calls available, and Ive not found an indication Nationwide said 
theyd seen CCTV of the withdrawals. In one call the adviser says they would provide the 
date and times of the transactions to the Mr S to provide to the police, and if it showed he 
didnt carry out the transactions they may reconsider. There may have been other calls 
between Mr S and Nationwide which were less clear on this point. But ultimately from what 
Mr S had told us its unlikely CCTV would have been available anyway.
Taking in to account all this, it seems more likely than not the withdrawals were made either 
by Mr S, or somebody he had allowed to use the card. This means Im satisfied that its 
reasonable for Nationwide to decline to refund them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman