DRN-1632165
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to 
decline his claim made on a pet insurance policy.
All references in this decision to Red Sands include its claims-handling agents. 
What happened
Briefly, Mr R took out an annually renewable policy in January 2019 (hed taken out pet 
cover with Red Sands in previous years). Mr R made a claim on the policy in July 2019 
because, among other things, his pet was suffering from otitis  a disorder of the ear. Red 
Sands assessed the claim and decided not to pay it. That was because the policy only 
covered medical conditions for a year from when they first occurred. And in its view, as 
Mr Rs pet had first suffered with the condition in October/November 2017, the claim wasnt 
payable.
Red Sands also said the policy required Mr R to have contacted it about his pets otitis when 
it first occurred in 2017. If he had, Red Sands said it would have added a specific exclusion 
to the policy from the next renewal in January 2018. It added the clause retrospectively and 
said the claim also fell within the scope of the clause and so wasnt payable for that reason 
as well.
Unhappy with Red Sands decision, Mr R complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended it be upheld. They didnt consider that Red Sands was entitled 
to turn down the claim based on the policy terms and the clinical evidence or that it should 
have added the policy exclusion.
Red Sands didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to explain what the policy terms say Red Sands wont cover. 
Most relevantly, for example, the policy summary made it clear that the policy was time 
limited. Thats to say it only covered Mr Rs pet for 365 days after the condition is first noted 
by yourself or the vet. The policy goes on to say that once the 365 days have elapsed, the 
illness, injury or condition would no longer be covered, and exclusion clauses would then be 
applied to the policy. So, for example, conditions recurring more than a year from the date of 
first occurrence wouldnt be covered by Red Sands.
Mr R claimed for treatment given in summer 2019. Red Sands says the condition giving rise 
to the need for that treatment first occurred more than a year before that, meaning the claim 
isnt payable under the policy terms. To determine if thats the case, and if theres a link 
between the events, Ive carefully considered the evidence from the time of the claim 
together with the pets clinical history. 
The information from the vet from 2019 indicates the otitis occurred in, and was treated from, 
around June 2019 onwards. Ive carefully reviewed the claim forms from the time and the 
vets case reports which include a summary of the pets history. However, theres no mention 
of the otitis being related to any previous occurrence of the condition.
Its true that otitis was referred to in Mr Rs pets medical history back in early November 
2017. According to the vets notes from back then, the pet had suffered with an ear issue for 
three days. The vet prescribed antibiotics and advised Mr R regarding regular cleaning of the 
affected area. By the end of November 2017, following two further re-examinations, it seems 
the issue had largely resolved, and no further checks were arranged.  
Reports of discharge and wax build up continued in May 2018 and January 2019, but the vet 
noted there were no signs of inflammation or infection on those occasions.
While I can see why the medical history might have given Red Sands some cause for 
concern, Im minded to place emphasis on the additional comments provided in support of 
the claim by the treating vet. In an email sent direct to Red Sands, the surgerys clinical 
director said:
This episode is unrelated to the previous episode, [the pet] has between times been 
well, and currently has Dilated pars flaccida as a consequence of the otitis media or 
possible mass in horizontal canal, which is not connected to the otitis externa in 
2017.
I respectfully ask you reconsider this claim as although both conditions are conditions 
of the ear, they are in differing locations within the ear, not connected and have not 
been continuous, [the pet] has been examined in the interim and been free of 
disease in either ear. 
In the absence of enough evidence to counter that provided by the treating vet, on balance I 
find that the condition Mr Rs pet suffered from, and was treated for, in 2019 was likely 
unrelated to the one experienced in 2017. As such, I dont believe its fair for Red Sands to 
rely on the policys 365-day time limit to decline the claim. 
Given the events of 2017 and the fact that Mr Rs pets ear condition resolved relatively 
quickly at the time, I dont think he should lose out as a result of his failure to report the 
occurrence to Red Sands. It follows that I think Red Sands should remove the exclusion 
clause relating to claims for the ears that was added to the policy from January 2018.   
Putting things right
I require Red Sands to:
Remove the exclusion clause added from January 2018 relating to claims for Mr Rs 
pets ears (this doesnt permanently preclude Red Sands from adding the same, or a 
similar, clause to the policy in subsequent years, depending on the circumstances); 
and
Pay the claim made in 2019 for otitis in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions; plus
Add interest at the simple rate of 8%* a year, calculated from the date(s) Mr R paid 
any relevant invoice(s) to the date of settlement.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Red Sands to take off tax from this interest. Red Sands 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to put things right for Mr R as explained above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman