DRN-3447545
The complaint
Ms A and Mr A complain that the valuation carried out on behalf of Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax failed to pick up defects with their property. 
What happened
Ms A and Mr A took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2015 to buy a property. They recently 
found a problem with the property. Ms A and Mr A say the valuation carried out on behalf of 
Halifax should have revealed this. That would have given them an opportunity to get quotes 
for the work and either renegotiate the price or not go ahead. Ms A and Mr A say theyll 
suffer a financial loss due to the cost of putting the defect right. 
Our investigator said the valuation was carried out for the benefit of Halifax, to help it decide 
whether to lend. He said there was no evidence the defect existed in 2015 or that it 
materially affected the property value. The investigator said the £200 compensation offered 
by Halifax for the way it dealt with the complaint was fair.
Mr A and Ms A didnt agree. Ms A said the defect was visible when the valuation was carried 
out and affected the value. She said work was needed to put it right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A and Mr A applied to Halifax for a mortgage. Halifax instructed a valuation. This was for 
Halifaxs benefit, to help it assess whether the property was good security for the loan.
Halifax instructed a qualified surveyor, a member of Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. I think Halifax met its responsibility to appoint a suitably qualified person to carry 
out the valuation. And theres no suggestion there was anything in the valuation report that 
made it unreasonable for Halifax to rely on it when making its lending decision. 
Ms A and Mr A chose a valuation report. The guidance notes say this was a limited 
inspection highlighting only those items the valuer considered will materially affect value. If 
Ms A and Mr A had wanted a more detailed survey, theyd have needed to request (and pay) 
for this.
The valuation was carried out by a business called Colleys, which at the time was a 
surveying arm of the wider banking group which Halifax is part of. I think the surveyor would 
still be considered to be suitably qualified. But the links between the two businesses impacts 
what we can consider. I say this because, as Colleys and Halifax were part of the same 
banking group, and Halifax was the lender in this transaction, the valuation was ancillary to 
the activity of lending itself  which is regulated and falls within our jurisdiction. This means I 
can consider the contents of the valuation report.
I must make it clear though that I cant substitute my own view for that of the surveyor. Im 
not qualified to do so, and it wouldnt be appropriate. I can consider whether errors were 
made. 
Ms A says there is a visible crack in the lintel above a window. She says this was there 
before they bought the property and is visible on pictures available from the internet taken 
before they bought the property. She says this led to structural movement and further 
damage to the property. Ms A said this was a significant visible defect under RICS 
guidelines. 
Ms A feels strongly that the surveyor that valued the property made an error. But I dont think 
shes provided sufficient evidence to support this. The evidence I have received is:
Ms A said a builder noticed the problem with the lintel and told her shed need to get a 
structural report. 
After Ms A and Mr A raised their complaint, Halifax instructed a surveyor to inspect the 
property. The surveyor said any movement is of long standing and non-progressive in 
nature. The surveyor said there was no detriment or material effect on the market 
valuation for the property in 2015 for this minor cracking.
The surveyor that carried out the recent inspection said windows and doors had been 
changed since Ms A and Mr A bought the property, including the window with the lintel 
Ms A says is cracked. Theres no evidence that the contractors that replaced the window 
(who are presumably knowledgeable in this area) said there was a problem with the 
lintel.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that the crack Ms A is worried 
about should have been highlighted in 2015 as an item the valuer considered would 
materially affect the value of the property. In fact the strongest evidence I have  the opinion 
of a qualified surveyor who inspected the property  is that this wasnt the case.
Halifax said if Ms A wasnt happy with the inspection carried out she should seek an 
independent expert report. Halifax said it would need independent professional evidence to 
demonstrate the cracking to a ground floor lintel above the rear door/window is significant 
and progressive. Ms A hasnt provided an expert report.
While Ms A says there will be significant costs involved in putting the defect right, and the 
property value will be affected she hasnt provided evidence to support this. Ms A hasnt 
provided a report by a surveyor or other suitably qualified expert to demonstrate there is a 
significant problem that needs to be fixed, the work that would be needed or the likely cost of 
this work. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay 
compensation for the cost of any potential work to the property or for any possible effect on 
its value. 
Halifax offered £200 for not responding promptly when Ms A raised her concerns. I think for 
the inconvenience caused by the delay in getting an answer from Halifax, this is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay £200 to Ms A and Mr A, as it offered to 
do. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman