DRN-3393308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the distress they suffered when Barclays Bank UK PLC 
removed their mortgage offer on the morning that they were moving to a new house.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage offer from Barclays, exchanged contracts on their property, 
moved out of their house and arranged to move into a new house on the morning of 29 April 
2021 when their solicitor contacted them to say that Barclays had asked for an EPC 
certificate the previous evening and this may result in a delay into late afternoon to their 
purchase. This was followed by a further call about a half hour later when their solicitor told 
them that Barclays couldnt honour the mortgage or release the funds as Barclays had 
offered an incorrect mortgage offer for the property being purchased but that the solicitor 
was chasing Barclays to resolve the matter. Mr and Mrs B say that after constant chasing by 
them, their solicitor and their financial advisor, late in the day Barclays said it would honour 
the loan but they werent able to move all their property into the new house before the bank 
holiday weekend.
Mr and Mrs B complained, and Barclays offered compensation of £500. On 13 July 2021, 
Barclays issued a final response letter saying it was responsible for putting Mr and Mrs B 
into the distressing situation. Barclays said that the product they were offered was incorrect 
and it had to be amended in order for the mortgage to complete. It felt the offer of 
compensation which originally had been made was fair compensation for the distress they 
had been through. Our investigator also felt that the offer of compensation was appropriate 
and didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and 
asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in their follow up to our investigators view that Mr and Mrs B still dont understand 
what went wrong and are anxious that whatever went wrong doesnt happen again so that 
the same thing doesnt happen to another family.
My understanding of the problem was that Mr and Mrs B previously had a mortgage on a 
help to buy property. That Barclays mortgage had a green mortgage product and the 
mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs B was to port that mortgage product to the mortgage on the 
new property which would avoid an early repayment charge (ERC). Barclays says that the 
original offer was incorrectly issued as the green product from the previous lending wasnt 
portable. So, the advisor should have issued a mortgage offer with a mortgage product on 
the equivalent rate as the existing mortgage product but not as Barclays Green Home HTB 
mortgage product as its described on the mortgage offer. Again. my understanding is that 
Barclays made a further error by requesting an EPC certificate which wasnt needed as the 
product wasnt to be a green product and at the last minute discovered the error. The 
remedy for that error appears to have been to substitute an equivalent interest rate for the 
green rate so that Mr and Mrs B werent penalised but the administrative process to do so 
caused the delay in completion on 29 April 2021.
Mr and Mrs B make the point that it wasnt the delay that caused the anxiety but rather that 
on the morning of completion they were told that Barclays was unable to offer the mortgage 
which meant they felt effectively homeless. Mr and Mrs B say that there is a difference 
between the distress caused by a delay on completion day and that of believing that its not 
going to happen at all. I also see that Mr and Mrs Bs anxiety was heightened by their 
concern to avoiding passing their stress to their daughter.
I note from the complaint form that effectively the solicitor and the mortgage broker were 
chasing Barclays throughout the day. Most of the correspondence Ive seen relates to when 
the funds will be released and if they will be released that day and when that would happen 
rather than any suggestion that the mortgage wouldnt go through at all. I note that their 
solicitor, after informing them of the second problem, told Mr and Mrs B that she would be 
working to resolve the matter and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Barclays, on its side, 
having made the mistake wasnt prepared to resolve the matter. I dont believe that it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to assume that the error couldnt be fixed. There was a 
problem, not of their making, but it could be and was resolved. But Ive no doubt that until it 
was resolved that this was all very distressing for Mr and Mrs B. 
Ive to decide as to what compensation is due. I believe that the distress caused to Mr and 
Mrs B during that day was considerable and the appropriate compensation to be £500. I 
know that Mr and Mrs B would like to know exactly what went wrong. Ive related my 
understanding. Were not a regulator but a dispute resolution service and my role is to 
determine whether the lender was at fault and what fair compensation should be paid, both 
of which Ive been able to determine. But we cant fix any problem that may exist so that it 
doesnt happen in the future. Ive no doubt that the 29 April 2021 was an extremely stressful 
day for Mr and Mrs B caused by Barclays which they should pay compensation for. I know 
that Mr and Mrs B feel that there was some delay by Barclays in responding to their 
complaint. But Barclays at an early stage admitted its error and offered compensation. As 
Barclays did that and made an offer that I consider appropriate before the complaint was 
brought to us, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman