DRN-3620720
The complaint
Mr S complains Kensington Mortgage Company Limited carried out 18 hard searches on his 
credit file when he applied for a mortgage.
What happened
On 3 June 2021 Kensington carried out a search of Mr Ss credit file. On 10 June 2021, a 
further 17 searches were carried out by Kensington. Mr S says he noticed a big decrease in 
his credit score, but thought it was just because hed applied for a mortgage. He says it 
wasnt until December 2021 after hed sold his property, the 18 searches were pointed out to 
him by his mortgage broker. Mr S says he had to abandon the process of buying a new 
property given his credit score. 
From the information I have, it seems Mr S complained on 4 December 2021, and 
Kensington replied on 28 January 2022. In their response, they said theyd found an error in 
the underwriting process which meant they searched all the flats in a block, leaving a hard 
footprint each time. They said theyd asked the credit reference agencies (CRAs) to update 
this  and it should be updated by 1 February 2022. They said sorry, and paid Mr S £200 
compensation for this error.
Unhappy with this, Mr S asked us to look into things, saying he didnt think Kensington had 
provided a proper explanation for what happened. He also felt the compensation of £200 
wasnt enough, and they should either increase it, or waive him the Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) of £2,379.65.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but felt overall the compensation of £200 was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. He said their actions caused him a lot of stress and meant he couldnt buy 
a new home.
It wasnt clear to me why Mr S felt he couldnt buy a new home, so we asked him about this, 
along with any evidence he had to support his comments the only reason he couldnt get a 
new home was due to the hard searches  and for evidence of any other costs he was 
claiming for. Ill address Mr Ss replies in my comments below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I understand Mr S doesnt think Kensington havent provided a proper explanation 
for what happened, I think they have. Theyve explained they carried out searches on all the 
individual addresses in a block of flats when they shouldnt have done that. I appreciate Mr S 
thinks this isnt enough, but it is an explanation, and Ive not seen anything to dispute that. 
So, I dont require Kensington to do anything more on this point.
Ive seen Mr S asked if the compensation isnt increased then his ERC should be waived. My 
understanding is Mr S is making this argument as compensation for the error, rather than 
saying the ERC itself has been applied incorrectly. Ive noted our Investigator explained it 
had been applied properly as part of the terms and conditions of the contract  which Mr S 
hasnt disputed. So, I wont be requiring Kensington to pay Mr S the cost of the ERC, as Ive 
seen nothing to suggest any ERC was applied in error.
This means the only issue that remains outstanding is the compensation, and whether the 
£200 Kensington paid Mr S is enough for the mistake here.
Mr S has said the only reason he had to abandon the purchase of a new property was due to 
the credit searches. And when I arranged for us to ask for a detailed explanation, he said the 
sole reason he couldnt get a new property was because he couldnt find a suitable mortgage 
due to the lowering of his credit score  so effectively making the same argument as he had 
before. He said he didnt have any other evidence to provide, and said hes not claiming for 
any specific costs, more than he didnt think the £200 was fair for the significant impact its 
had on him.
I think at this point its important to explain a credit score is something generally only seen by 
the individual who applies for their credit report. Lenders dont see credit scores, they see 
the way accounts have been run, along with searches and a number of other pieces of 
information.
From what Mr S is saying, he wasnt able to get a suitable mortgage as a result of his credit 
score  but its more likely a prospective lender would have questions over the 17 searches 
carried out on one day  since they wouldnt be able to see his score. 
An application for a mortgage relies on a large number of different factors  Im aware this 
can sometimes be over 100 individual pieces of information that can go into a lenders 
decision on whether to lend. And the information from someones credit report is just one of 
those pieces of information. 
Mr S has said he couldnt find a suitable mortgage. Its unclear why that would be the case, 
as Im aware lenders are usually willing to listen to explanations of any particular issues that 
have arisen. What theyd do if Mr S had told them Kensington incorrectly carried out 17 
searches I dont know, though logically Id expect them to be able to look at it and know its 
not right and take that into account.
Regardless though, it seems it was Mr Ss choice not to continue with his mortgage 
application as a result of the error made by Kensington. I understand he felt he couldnt get a 
suitable mortgage, but I cant hold Kensington responsible for Mr S not getting a mortgage 
when he chose not to try and apply for one.
Compensation is still due given Kensington did make a mistake, which affected Mr S, but I 
have to carefully consider the impact of that mistake. Here although I appreciate Mr S felt he 
had no choice but to stop his application, I think that was his choice and he could have 
carried on. So, although there is impact, its somewhat limited as a result of Mr Ss actions. 
Because of that, I think the £200 compensation already paid to Mr S is a fair amount to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman