DRN-3179650
The complaint
Mrs E complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S Bank) failed to honour a 
claim he brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mrs E is 
represented by her husband Mr E. 
What happened
The background to the matter is well known to all parties so I will provide a brief summary:
Mrs E and her husband had a membership with a holiday club which they wished to 
terminate.  On 23 November 2016 Mr E entered into a contract with another 
company I will call R. It said it would arrange for him and his wife to be released from 
her membership with the club and claim compensation for the mis-selling of the 
membership.
Mrs E paid R £2,375 on 4 December and £5,539 on 7 December towards the 
contract using her M&S Bank credit card to a company I will call MRL. The contract 
guaranteed that R would achieve the release of Mr and Mrs E from their membership 
within 12 months of 3 December 2016.
R failed to arrange for Mrs E and her husband to be released from their membership 
with C, and subsequently went into liquidation in May 2018. Mr E wrote to R on 29 
March 2018 to ask for a refund, but the letter was returned undelivered.
Mrs E brought a claim against M&S Bank under s 75 of the CCA on 4 April 2018.
M&S Bank investigated the matter and didnt agree Mrs E had a valid claim under s 
75 of the CCA. It said that because she had paid MRL, and not R, the necessary 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement wasnt in place for her to be able to 
make a claim. Mrs E was unhappy with this decision and complained, but M&S Bank 
rejected her complaint. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. It was upheld originally, but after further research our investigator 
concluded M&S Bank had been right to say Mrs E didnt have a valid claim under s 
75 CCA, because MRL had taken the credit card payments instead of R and a 
chargeback was not possible due to the time limit having expired..
Our investigator investigated whether there were any exceptions which meant this 
might not matter, but he couldnt find any. She also thought about whether M&S Bank 
should have charged back the credit card transactions but concluded the bank had 
been out of time to do so at the point it had been made aware of the issue.
Mrs E didnt agree with our investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms by which they can assist. If 
a credit card has been used, as in this case, s 75 CCA gives a legal right to the account 
holder to claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by the supplier, so long as certain criteria have been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card. This can be done only in certain scenarios and only so long as the 
dispute fits within the rules set out by the card scheme. This includes scenarios where goods 
or services have not been received, and the process of disputing payments in this way is 
generally known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their card issuer 
attempts a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a reasonable 
prospect of the process succeeding, and to conduct the chargeback process in a competent 
way, free of errors.
The Section 75 claim
I dont think Mrs E had a valid section 75 claim against M&S Bank for essentially the same 
reasons our investigator explained. I dont think her claim meets one of the key criteria I 
referred to above.
The criterion in question is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement in place. The 
simplest explanation of this is, is that when someone makes a payment on their credit card, 
in order to be able to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need to 
have used the credit card to pay the same company they say misrepresented something to 
them, or breached its contract with them. Mrs E didnt pay R, which is the company she has 
a problem with. Instead, her credit card payments went to MRL.
There are some exceptions to this general rule. The first exception occurs where the 
company which is responsible for the breach or misrepresentation (the supplier) is an 
associate of the company which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the time 
the payment is made. This doesnt mean an associate in the everyday sense of being linked 
in some way or another; the companies have to be associates according to a very specific 
definition which is set out in section 184 of the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need to 
be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one 
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in 
partnership (for example, being directors together at another company). A person would be 
in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be followed by 
the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more of voting power 
at any general meeting of the company. In general, I would view a company director or 
majority shareholder to fall into these categories. Being based at the same or a similar 
business address, as Mrs E has claimed, would not be enough to make two companies 
associates.
Ive carefully considered whether R and MRL were associates at the time of Mrs Es credit 
card payment, by checking publicly available information about the companies. A Mr K was a 
controller of R between 1 April 2016 and 1 December 2016, while an associate of his (a Mr 
U) controlled MRL. This means the companies themselves were associates during this time 
window. Mr K gave up his shareholding in R from 1 December 2016 and I cannot see that he 
was a controller of the company from that point on.
The agreement with R was made on 26 November 2016, but the DCS agreement didnt 
come into effect until 4 December when the first payment was made. M&S Bank wasnt party to the agreement until payment from it was sought and so for the purposes of determining if 
MRL and R were associated I have to apply the rules to the facts as at 4 December 2016.
I have noted there is also an outstanding debenture in Mr Ks favour, granted by R, dating 
back to January 2016. It has been suggested this means he controls the company. I dont 
agree. All this shows is that Mr K had agreed to lend money to R on a secured basis and this 
has not yet been repaid.
Because Mrs Es credit card payments were made outside of the window in which R and 
MRL were associates, this means the exception doesnt apply in her case.
There is another exception which was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor 
trader as a client. The solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor 
trader, which had no facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which the 
customers had ordered. The court found that the contractual arrangements between the 
motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme 
through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore 
mean there was a DCS agreement in place.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that the above conclusion couldnt be applied 
in all cases as a general principle, and that there were problems with establishing where the 
line should be drawn between scenarios where the supplier could be linked to the card 
scheme, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw this conclusion.
The judge noted that the problem would need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and 
that the precise contractual arrangements between the parties would determine whether 
the creditor had liability under section 75.
A later case in the County Court, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], clarified 
that in the absence of knowledge of the precise contractual arrangements between the 
company which was meant to supply the services or goods under the contract, and the 
payee, that the involvement of the payee in the provision of the goods or services could be 
enough to link the supplier to the card scheme and for a DCS agreement to exist.
In Mrs Es case, not much is known about the precise contractual arrangements between R, 
which was the supplier of the services, and MRL, which was the payee. Its clear that MRL 
took payments for Rs customers and that this was an established practice, as Ive seen 
evidence that R required its salespeople to tell customers that the name of MRL or another 
company might appear on their statements.
There is some evidence that a company in the group to which MRL belonged, acted as Rs 
accountants. We have tried to find out more from this group of companies, and the relevant 
liquidators. Unfortunately, we have not received information which helps to clarify what the 
arrangements were between the companies. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more 
complete picture of the nature of the arrangements between the parties and had the benefit 
of direct evidence from the payee. Here I dont have nearly as much information and I feel 
unable to conclude that R was linked to the card scheme via its arrangements with MRL, on 
the evidence available to me.
Ive considered whether the case of Marshall might be applicable to Mrs Es case, but Ive 
seen no evidence that it would be because it doesnt appear MRL was involved in the 
provision of the timeshare release or compensation claim services Mrs E had contracted 
with R for.
I have also noted the suggestion that there was link between MRL and another company I 
will call MRTP, but the payment was processed by MRL and I can only consider the link 
between R and MRL. Nor can I presume there was a link because the different companies 
operated from the same building or close by. The location of a business is not one of the 
criteria I can consider under s 184 CCA.In light of the above, I conclude there was no valid DCS agreement in place to allow Mrs E to 
make a section 75 claim against M&S Bank. I therefore dont think the bank was wrong to 
reject her claim. I appreciate the frustration with the situation but I cannot require M&S Bank 
to pay out money where a claim falls outside the terms of s 75 CCA.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
Mastercard imposes time limits on claims and having reviewed these I find myself in 
agreement with our investigator that by the time Mr E contacted the back it was too late to 
raise a chargeback. Mastercard has the following relevant rules:
1. Credit Not Processed  the rules say a chargeback must be attempted Between 15 
and 120 calendar days fromthe date the service was cancelled by the 
cardholder.
2.Goods or Services not Received (assuming the service had an end date)  if its 
assumed the service was due to end at the end of the guarantee period then a 
chargeback was subject to the following timescale: within 120 calendar days of the 
latest anticipated delivery or performance date specified by the merchant
The agreement dated 23 November 2016 with R was as follows: 
What we agree to do for you under this agreement
a) We have undertaken a detailed fact find with you as to the terms of your Timeshare 
Agreement and have advised you on the most cost-effective method of terminating the 
agreement and how to release yourself from any future obligations, charges or maintenance
costs under your Timeshare Agreement We have also provided you with a written
quotation of our charges for doing this and given an estimate of the likely timescale involved
to obtain the release.
b) Upon receipt of the Deposit from you for the work required we will then put into effect 
recommendations and take all steps necessary to release you from your agreement
c) We will notify you in writing as soon as we have obtained your release from the Timeshare 
Agreement.
It goes on to say: [R] give a full money back guarantee that the relinquishment will be 
achieved within 12 months of this date.
Mr E did not cancel the agreement, he asked for the refund as promised by R and so the 
rules set out at 1 above does not apply.
I consider rule 2 does apply in the that the service wasnt delivered by the end date which 
was 23 November 2017. That means that Mrs E had 120 days from that date in which to 
notify the bank in order for it to be able to raise a chargeback was 23 March 2018. Mr E 
contacted M&S Bank on behalf of his wife on 4 April 2018 which was outside the 120-day 
time limit.Our investigator referenced a third rule, but this applies to open ended contracts. The 
contract between Mr E and R did have an end date in that it agreed to refund all monies paid 
if the service had not been delivered.
In short the bank had 120 days after the first anniversary of the agreement in which to raise 
chargeback and as it wasnt aware of the situation until after that date it could not. 
I fully appreciate the frustration Mr and Mrs E have suffered as a result of the service not 
being delivered and the money not being returned, but I cannot say that M&S Bank is 
obliged to meet that shortfall. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not think M&S Bank treated Mrs E unfairly by refusing 
to reimburse him. My final decision is that I do not uphold her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman