DRN-4523828
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr M says:
In February 2023, Mr M was contacted via WhatsApp by someone purporting to be from a 
recruitment firm  she asked if he was interested in earning up to £700 per week. Mr M 
checked the recruitment firm on Companies House and LinkedIn and thought the opportunity 
was genuine.
He was then contacted by another person and was introduced to a scheme whereby he had 
to send money to a crypto wallet, and then onto a bitcoin trading firm. He could then 
generate data for a retail consumer website by agreeing to buy goods up to the value of his 
crypto investment. The funds were then to be returned to his bank account when the goods 
were sold to a consumer.
Mr M made a payment from his account with Santander on 6 March 2023:
Date Payment Amount
6 March 2023 Faster payment to crypto wallet in name of Mr M £2,300
Total £2,300
No money was repaid and he was asked to put in another £23,000 in order to receive the 
funds. He became suspicious and then realised he had been scammed.
Mr M contacted Santander to advise them of the scam and to ask for a refund.
What Santander said:
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ms claim or his complaint. They said:
- Mr M authorised the payment. 
- The payment was made to an account in his own name and therefore the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply.
- Santander said to us that the payment was sent to an intermediary bank before the 
loss occurred in the bitcoin trading platform.
Our investigation so far:
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said:
- The payment wasnt of a sufficient size to trigger a warning in Santanders systems.
- So, Santander didnt need to intervene and question the payment.
- Santander contacted the receiving bank, but the money had been removed.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr M didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary and in this case, the payments were made to Mr Ms own account  his crypto 
wallet. 
I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M 
when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
I looked at Mr Ms account. It appears to be an account that he used for everyday spending 
and to receive his income. There were two payments of over £1,000 in the months leading 
up to the scam payment  in December 2022, there was a payment for £1,000 and another 
in January 2023 for £1,250. So  the payment for £2,300 to Mr Ms crypto account was a 
little unusual, so I considered this further.And here, theres a balance to be struck; Santander has obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. 
And - this was a single payment and for a relatively low amount. Therefore, in this case, I 
think Santander acted reasonably in processing the payment  I dont think that I could 
reasonably say that Santander should have stopped the payment for further checks.
This is the important point here in reaching my decision. And therefore, I dont consider 
Santander can be held liable for the payment.
Even though our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, Santander made some further 
comments and quoted the Supreme Courts binding decision in Philipp v Barclays Bank plc. I 
make no comment on that decision, or Santanders points relating to it  as my decision to 
not uphold this complaint is based on the amount of the payment made by Mr M, and does 
not refer to the Supreme Courts decision. So  I set that aside.
Recovery
We expect firms to quickly try to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes 
place. I looked at whether Santander took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  to recover the lost money. I could see that theyd contacted the provider 
of Mr Ms crypto wallet  and on 24 March 2023, were advised that no funds remained. 
Unfortunately, that is generally the case in these types of scams, and funds are usually 
removed within minutes, or hours of their receipt.
Im sorry Mr M has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for his loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman