DRN-3151807
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). 
Mr F paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr F says 
that he did not need all of the benefits that the account came with.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mr F did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Fs complaint After 
giving this case a lot of thought, I dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this 
isnt the outcome that he was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help him 
understand how I have come to this conclusion.
I started by thinking about whether Mr F was aware the URCA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that he 
was. I say this because he had previously had a fee-free bank account with Halifax. So, I 
think that Mr F wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for him. 
At the time the account was taken out, the other major benefits that it came with included 
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone 
insurance. I note that Mr F says he did not need breakdown cover or the mobile phone 
insurance. But he does seem to have needed the travel insurance and I can see that he 
benefited from a reduced interest rate on his overdraft facility, which I can see he used 
regularly. So I think he may have taken out the account for these benefits.
This account was not recommended to Mr F. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mr F. But it did need to provide Mr F with enough 
information to decide this for himself. 
I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came with as 
it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr F. I accept that Mr F may 
not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I cant 
see anything about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mr F. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr F the account fees 
that hes been charged whilst hes held the URCA. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman