DRN-1340995
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has dealt with his 
claims under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf and all references to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including anything said or done on its behalf by those agents.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr A lost his mobile phone and made a claim to Assurant. His claim was 
accepted, and he was sent a replacement device. This phone developed a fault within the 
first few weeks so Assurant, after confirming the fault, sent a replacement in December 
2017. It also offered Mr A £25 for the cost of a temporary device while it dealt with the matter 
and £50 compensation. 
Eleven months later, Mr A had to call Assurant again as the most recent phone had 
developed faults. As a gesture of goodwill, Assurant arranged for a doorstep exchange of 
the device, without verifying the faults Mr A had reported. 
In September 2019 Mr A called Assurant again, as the third replacement phone had 
developed faults. Mr A was unhappy Assurant wouldn't do a doorstep exchange as it had 
done previously and reluctantly returned the device to Assurant under the warranty 
process. Having received the device, Assurant couldn't find any faults with it, so returned it 
to Mr A. Mr A then provided Assurant with further video evidence of the intermittent faults 
hed reported.  Given Mr A had expressed he was unhappy receiving 
remanufactured phones, Assurant offered Mr A a cash settlement of £139.99 and £50 
compensation. 
Mr A is unhappy he received a number of faulty devices, he thinks Assurant should provide 
him with a new phone. Mr A doesn't believe the cash settlement offered by Assurant is 
enough to allow him to buy a new phone. Mr A is also unhappy with how Assurant dealt with 
his call in September 2019 when it refused to provide him with a further doorstep exchange. 
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt think Assurant needed to do anything 
more. He pointed out Mr As policy didnt entitle him to a new device. He thought, while it 
was unfortunate Mr As phones had become faulty, Assurant had replaced them each time 
and the amount now offered was sufficient to purchase a replacement. The investigator 
confirmed hed listened to the call Mr A was unhappy with, but thought it was handled 
professionally by Assurant.
The case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I wont be upholding his complaint, Ill explain why. Mr As policy is clear that where a device is replaced, it may provide a remanufactured (not 
brand-new) device. To be clear, I have checked the terms and conditions from the date of
Mr A's original claim and it does not entitle him to a new device. Because of this, I cant say 
Assurant should have replaced Mr As phone with a brand-new device. When 
Assurant provides remanufactured devices, it does so with a 12-month warranty which 
means they can be replaced if they go on to develop faults. I think this is reasonable. 
Ive no doubt, having had three phones develop faults has been inconvenient and frustrating 
for Mr A, especially as hes explained he regularly uses, and needs his phone. I can see that 
as well as providing a replacement device each time, in total Assurant has also offered Mr A 
£100 compensation and a further £25 for a temporary replacement device while the first 
warranty claim was being processed. It also, on the second occasion, chose not to check the 
device for faults, as per its usual process and agreed to a doorstep exchange. I think overall 
Assurant has done enough here to recognise the trouble and upset Mr A has been put to, so 
I wont be asking it to pay anything further.
Ive listened to the calls Mr A had with Assurant in September 2019 and, I agree with our 
investigator here that the call handlers acted professionally. It's clear Mr A was 
understandably frustrated by the ongoing situation, and he wanted the same doorstep 
exchange hed been offered previously. Mr A has suggested that by not agreeing to a 
doorstep exchange, the call handlers were providing him with poor customer service, I don't 
agree.
Assurant was under no obligation to provide this exchange and it was entitled, under the 
warranty process, to check the device for faults. It also explained to Mr A on the call that it's 
policy on exchanges had changed, and they now aren't offered. So while I can 
appreciate why Mr A would have been unhappy and disappointed, given what he's explained 
about his personal situation and the fact he'd been offered the service previously as a 
gesture of goodwill, I don't think Assurant did anything wrong here by refusing a further 
doorstep exchange. 
Assurant has now accepted the third phone is faulty and has offered Mr A a cash settlement 
of £139.99.  I think this is a reasonable solution, the policy allows for an alternative 
settlement to be made and Mr A is understandably unhappy about the quality of replacement 
devices he's received previously. Assurant has provided evidence that Mr A could purchase 
a replacement device online for that amount.  As I mentioned previously, Assurant doesnt 
have to provide Mr A with a brand-new device so it only has to pay him an amount equal to 
what it would cost to buy a remanufactured phone. I'm satisfied the amount Assurant has 
offered would allow Mr A to do this.
Overall, while it seems a unique set of circumstances has meant Mr A has had three phones 
become faulty, I think Assurant has acted reasonably in providing replacements and now, a 
cash settlement. It has also recognised Mr A has been caused inconvenience and provided 
him with compensation. Because of this, I wont be asking Assurant to do anything more. 
My final decision
I reject Mr A's complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited. Other than to make 
any outstanding payments to Mr A, I don't require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman