DRN-3856308
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited have unfairly declined 
the claim he made on his guarantee protection policy. Reference to Acasta will include their 
representatives.
What happened
Mr M has a guarantee protection policy with Acasta. This provides cover for repairs to his 
guttering, in the event the company which fitted it ceased to trade. Hereafter the company 
should be read as being those who fitted Mr Ms guttering.
Mr M had his guttering re-done around April 2021, unfortunately hes had numerous 
problems with it since  having to request the company to carry out remedial work on several 
occasions, dating as far back as May 2021.
In July 2022, Mr M made a claim on his guarantee protection policy, for what he said was a 
new problem. Mr M said problems first arose in May 2021 and that the company had ceased 
to trade on 6 July 2022, so he felt his policy should cover this.
Acasta assessed the claim, but said Mr M wasnt covered since the issues had arisen prior 
to the company ceasing to trade, and because cover only applied to issues that arose after 
that.
Mr M wasnt happy, he said hed made a mistake with the dates when claiming and that 
Acasta was being unfair.
An investigator here looked into the matter. He wasnt satisfied Mr M had simply made a 
mistake and therefore didnt think Acasta had been unfair.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case was passed to me to decide. I put it to Acasta 
that the claim should be reconsidered on account of information provided by the liquidators. 
They said the company had ceased to trade on 17 June 2022, which would mean the issue 
being claimed for now arose after that date.
Acasta didnt agree, because Mr M was required to complete the claim form accurately and 
because of the confusion over the dates. Because of that, I have given the matter further 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue here seems to be the dates. Mr M has referred to issues having arisen shortly 
after installation. But hes also explained that other issues had been fixed. He says that the 
issue he is claiming for now is a newer one  which occurred after the company ceased to 
trade. And that when answering the question initially he was trying to explain that he had had 
problems since May 2021. Not that this one occurred back then.
This is supported by his emails to the company where he explains about previous defects 
being fixed. And by the video footage he has sent in which shows as having been recorded 
on 1 July 2022.
That brings me on to the date the company ceased to trade, which is the reason Acasta has 
rejected the claim. Mr M made the point that while he put down the date of 6 July 2022, 
which clearly post dated the issue hes claiming for, that was the date of liquidation. Which 
would have come after they ceased to trade.
Having contacted the liquidators, they have suggested the company ceased to trade on 17 
June 2022  so this was prior to the issue identified on 1 July 2022.
Overall, while I accept there has been some confusion, and that it was caused by Mr M, it 
seems reasonable to me to conclude that he was referring to distinct issues with the 
guttering. And as the company ceased to trade earlier than he first said, a rejection of the 
claim on the grounds it did not are unfair.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to reconsider Mr Ms claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms. 
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman