DRN-2986101
The complaint
Mr H complains that Studio Retail Limited irresponsibly gave him a running account credit 
agreement which he couldnt afford.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr H applied for a catalogue credit account. Studio initially approved a 
£100 credit limit, this was increased to £165 two months later. In June 2017, Mr H missed a 
payment but made up the arrears quickly. Studio increased his credit limit further to £190 in 
September 2017. 
Mr H stopped making payments towards the outstanding balance, which at the time was 
around £130. Studio made attempts to contact Mr H for repayment, but as he didnt respond 
the account was defaulted, and the outstanding balance was sold to a third party. 
In 2019, Mr H complained to Studio to say the account was never affordable to him. He says 
that Studio didnt complete adequate affordability checks and if it had, it would have seen he 
had a bad credit history. Studio didnt agree it had acted unreasonably. It said that its credit 
checks showed the low limits it approved were likely to be affordable to Mr H. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Studios credit checks 
did show some adverse information on Mr Hs credit file but there wasnt anything significant 
which ought to have led it to conclude it was unaffordable. She did think that Studio ought to 
have done more before increasing the limit. However, she hadnt seen anything to 
demonstrate more thorough checks would have likely shown it was unaffordable. 
Mr H didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before approving the credit, Studio carried out a credit check as well as estimating Mr Hs 
income. Studio has given us some detail about the information its credit check revealed. In 
summary, this showed that Mr H had some historic delinquent accounts including one 
outstanding court debt which was issued over three years ago. His more recent credit history 
appeared to be in better shape. It seems he had a number of accounts which he was making 
his payments on time and within their respective credit limits. Although he had incurred one 
late payment in the previous six months. 
Given this was a such a low limit of £100, from the information Studio had gathered and 
could see, I dont think there was anything that ought to have caused to it to think this limit 
was unlikely to be affordable to Mr H. 
Studio did increase Mr Hs limit to £165 only two months later. While this was a small 
increase in monetary terms, it was a significant increase compared to the original credit limit. 
Studio hasnt provided us with a copy of the credit check it carried out prior to this increase, 
but its internal notes indicate that Mr Hs indebtedness had likely increased in this short 
period of time. I therefore think it would have been proportionate for it to have completed 
more thorough affordability checks prior to increasing Mr Hs credit limit. 
Our adjudicator asked Mr H to provide us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the 
time of the application and subsequent increases  such as a copy of his credit file, details of 
his income and copies of his bank statements. Mr H hasnt provided any of that information 
to us. Without any of that information, I cant fairly say that had Studio completed a more 
thorough affordability assessment it would most likely have found the credit to be 
unaffordable for Mr H. For this reason, I cant say that Studio acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in increasing Mr Hs credit limit to £165. 
I note that Mr H did have one late payment before the increase to £190, however, he had 
made up those arrears quickly and managed the account well in the subsequent months. 
I do think Studio ought to have carried out more thorough checks before increasing the limit 
to £190 because of that late payment. But as I dont know what those checks would likely 
have revealed (as Mr H hasnt provided us with details of his financial circumstances at the 
time) I cant conclude that Studio acted unfairly or unreasonably in increasing the limit. 
Lastly, I can see that when Mr H stopped making his monthly repayments, Studio did 
attempt to contact him about the missed payments on a regular basis. As Mr H didnt discuss 
his payment difficulties with Studio, I dont think it acted unfairly in defaulting the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman