DRN-2949207
The complaint
Ms I says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, didnt provide enough 
support when she was having problems repaying her loan. She also thinks that it shouldnt 
have passed the loan to a third-party collection agency and defaulted the loan when she 
couldnt make the repayments. 
What happened
Ms I borrowed £300 from Satsuma in June 2019. She was due to make 12 repayments of 
£49.80. 
Ms I had repayment problems right from the start. Satsumas records show that Ms I missed 
the first few scheduled repayments but she paid £99.60 in September 2019. She missed the 
next payment but paid £99.60 again in November 2019. She paid £49.80 in December 2019. 
Satsumas records show that it didnt receive any payments for some time after this. I 
understand a notice of default was sent to Ms I in July 2020. And I understand the loan was 
sent to a third party collection agency in November 2020. Satsumas records show that Ms I 
has made some payments since the loan was send to the third-party. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that Satsuma was acting 
incorrectly when it defaulted the loan and passed it to a third-party collection agency.
Ms I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said, in summary:
She struggled financially throughout 2020, and she also had health issues. But she 
kept in touch with Satsuma. 
Satsuma shouldve provided more support, as other businesses did, when this was 
the case. 
Satsuma shouldve used a default as a last resort, and it didnt take into account that 
she was trying to pay all of her bills and other debt. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short term and high cost credit - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ill firstly say that I can see that Ms I has been through a difficult time with health problems 
and uncertainty around her employment. I hope things have improved for her. And Ill say 
now that Im not upholding her complaint and I know this wont be the answer she wants. 
But I hope that she finds my explanation helpful and it doesnt cause any distress. 
In order to uphold this complaint I need to see that Satsuma has acted wrongly or 
unreasonably in some way. Ms Is complaint is that it added a default to her loan and that it 
passed the loan balance to a third party collection agency, she says it shouldnt have done 
both of these things. So Ive looked to see if Satsuma has acted reasonably in respect of 
these issues. 
As Ive outlined above its clear that Ms I was having problems making the loan repayments 
and she was in arrears right from the outset. But at the start of the loan term she was in 
regular contact with Satsuma. And Satsuma did, at various times, give her breathing space 
and it also negotiated a repayment plan to pay some of the loan balance and the arrears. 
Ms I wasnt able to pay this as well. 
But after May 2020 it looks like Satsuma had problems contacting Ms I. And no repayments 
were received until after the loan was passed to the collection agency in November 2020. I 
can see that Satsuma wrote to Ms I at times about the outstanding loan balance and the 
default. But I cant see that it got any response to these communications. 
Its generally reasonable to default a loan when a consumer has had problems making the 
repayments for around six months and there are ongoing problems with the relationship, 
such as a difficulty staying in touch. I think both of these apply here. So, I dont think 
Satsuma has acted incorrectly. I think it did as much as it could reasonably be expected to, 
given the circumstances that surrounded the loan repayments. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman