DRN-2348091
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a commercial loan she held with Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank). She says it was set up over an incorrect term, meaning she owed more 
than she shouldve done when she came to repay it. And shes unhappy with the service she 
received when trying to make lump sum payments, and when settling the loan in 2019.
What happened
Mrs B set up a business in 2010, running a partnership with her cousin. They bought their 
commercial premises with the help of a secured loan from Clydesdale, borrowing £74,900 
over a term of 15 years.
When Mrs Bs cousin wanted to leave the partnership in 2013, Mrs B approached 
Clydesdale to borrow an additional £20,000 to buy her out. Clydesdale agreed to lend Mrs B 
a total of £85,784, in order to refinance the partnerships debt and raise the additional 
£20,000. 
Initially, Mrs B was sent a loan agreement that stated the loan would be repaid over a term 
of five years with monthly payments of £787.93. She signed and returned this, and the loan 
was drawn down in October 2013. But in November, Clydesdale sent her a further loan 
agreement. This stated that the loan would be payable over a term of 15 years, again with 
monthly payments of £787.93. Mrs B signed and returned this one too.
Payments were made smoothly over the term of the loan until Mrs B noticed that Clydesdale 
hadnt collected the direct debit payment due in October 2018. Around this time, Mrs B was 
also looking to wind the business down and put the premises on the market. She got in 
touch with the bank about the non-payment in November and asked for a redemption figure. 
Monthly payments werent reinstated, as Mrs B was looking to redeem the loan. But she 
made a lump sum payment of £3,000 in January 2019 and then £25,000 in February, before 
settling the loan altogether in May.
Mrs B complains that the loan wasnt set up as agreed. She says that she always intended 
to retire by 2020, so there was no need for the loan to be over a 15-year term. This meant 
that the balance was much higher than it ought to have been when she came to settle it. She 
queries why Clydesdale sent her two different loan agreements, with the second one coming 
after the funds were actually released.
Mrs B is also unhappy with the service she received from Clydesdale. Despite contacting the 
bank in November 2018 for a redemption figure, she only got a call back in January 2019 
and even then had difficulty obtaining a definitive breakdown of the outstanding amount  
which she only received in April. She also says she had problems trying to make 
overpayments to the loan in previous years.
Clydesdale says that the terms of the loan were discussed with Mrs B at the time, noting that 
the 15-year term was discussed and that anything shorter wouldve increased the monthly 
payments. They were then set out in the paperwork, which Mrs B agreed to and signed. It 
isnt certain as to why a second loan agreement was required. But ultimately it says Mrs Bs 
position hasnt been prejudiced as she simply had the benefit of the loan funds early. The 
key terms remained the same in each agreement, and had those terms not met Mrs Bs 
needs she couldve queried or rejected them. 
Clydesdale has accepted, though, that the service Mrs B received in late 2018 and early 
2019 wasnt good enough. Its refunded the extra interest she paid as a result of the 
payments not being collected by direct debit, and backdated the lump sum payment she 
made in February 2019 to the date of her instruction. Its also offered her £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused in not getting a call back after her enquiries in 
November 2018, and paid her £75 for a delay in responding to some of her concerns. 
When our investigator reviewed Mrs Bs complaint, he thought that Clydesdale had been 
right to issue a new loan agreement in November 2013. In any case he didnt think this had 
caused Mrs B to lose out, as it was in line with her needs at the time and was on much the 
same terms as the previous one. But he thought that Clydesdale should pay Mrs B a further 
£300 compensation in view of the trouble and upset it had caused her.
Clydesdale accepted our investigators recommendation but Mrs B didnt. She was unhappy 
that the bank couldnt explain what had happened and thought shed lost out as a result of its 
errors in 2013. She said shed not asked for a loan over 15 years and couldve repaid it 
within five. So she asked that an ombudsman review her complaint, and it was passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Bs complaint last month, setting out that Id reached 
largely the same conclusions as our investigator but for different reasons. I said:
How the loan was set up in 2013
There is considerable confusion about what the parties agreed to  and intended to 
agree to  when the loan was set up in 2013. 
On the one hand, Mrs B says she believed the loan would run for five years but be 
reviewed every year. She points to the first loan agreement she signed, which had a 
five-year term. And she says she had no need for a 15-year term, as that wouldve 
taken her to age 68  but she always intended to retire at 60. On the other hand, 
Clydesdale says that the loan had a 15-year term. It points to the second loan 
agreement that says this, and which Mrs B signed. It says this loan was reviewable 
every five years.
I appreciate why Mrs B is confused about what happened as I think Clydesdale has 
made some errors, both at the time and in trying to explain things more recently. But 
I dont think shes lost out financially in how the loan has operated  even if this isnt 
quite as she expected.
Looking at Clydesdales notes from 2013, it seems there was some discussion with 
Mrs B about the length of the term. Of particular relevance here, one note says:
loan taken over a 15 years (sic) to allow for the repayments to be kept 
to a minimum, allowing affordability within the business. Renewable 
after 5 years. Customer did request for the term to remain the same but 
looking at debt servicing I think the increase in the payments would be 
steep for the business. I have discussed with [Mrs B] that there is (sic) options to pay additional monies to the loan to allow for a quicker 
repayment should she feel that the affordability is there.
There are further notes evidencing Clydesdales affordability assessment of Mrs Bs 
request and it seems that the 15-year term was needed in order to keep payments at a 
level she could manage. Those are the sort of checks Id expect it to make, as 
opposed to binding Mrs B to a potentially unaffordable commitment. And it was entitled 
to decide the terms on which it was willing to lend. 
Its also worth highlighting that the basis of the loan was to be largely the same as the 
one it was refinancing. The notes reflect that the term couldnt be kept the same for 
affordability reasons. But both terms ran past Mrs Bs intended retirement date (2020) 
 the first loan was due to expire in 2025, and the replacement in 2028. The loan had 
no charges or penalties for repaying early, so this worked for Mrs Bs needs. The 
longer term kept payments down, and Mrs B could overpay or settle early without 
charge. So as and when she decided to retire, she could sell the premises and use the 
proceeds to repay the loan.
So looking at all of that, I think Clydesdale was only ever willing to offer the loan to 
Mrs B on a 15-year term. I think that was a reasonable decision.
The problems have arisen as a result of the bank sending out a loan agreement with 
different terms. Despite the assessment Ive referred to above, in July 2013 it sent 
Mrs B a fixed sum loan agreement that said the loan would be repayable over a five-
year term. Mrs B signed and accepted this offer. The bank cant explain why this 
happened. Given all Ive said above, it seems to me to have been a mistake. 
Further, the figures in the agreement dont actually add up. While it says there will be 
60 monthly repayments, the payment amount (£787.93) wouldnt be anywhere near 
enough to repay the loan over that term. In fact its exactly the same amount required 
under the 15-year term, and quoted in the second agreement. So even if this had been 
agreed, Mrs B would still have reached the end of the five-year term owing exactly the 
same amount she did after five years of the 15-year term. Payments over a five-year 
term wouldve been almost double the £787 that Mrs B was paying, and I dont see 
any way in which this was ever going to be workable for either party.
I cant see whether this error was picked up and led to the further loan documentation 
being issued, or whether there was something else that prompted the second 
agreement to be sent. But whatever the reason, I think it was always the banks 
intention to lend on the terms of that second agreement. It also seems that there was 
at least some discussion of those terms with Mrs B. And on receipt of that second 
agreement, she signed it to accept the terms. If it hadnt been in line with her 
expectations, then  despite the understandable confusion  I think its reasonable to 
suggest that she couldve queried it with Clydesdale at the time. 
So while I think there were some errors in how the loan was set up, taking all of the 
above into account I dont think it would be fair for me to say that the loan ought to 
have been set up on a five-year term. I think it was always intended to be a 15-year 
term. And thats how it operated  so Mrs B hasnt lost out financially from the banks 
mistakes. I appreciate that the paperwork was also completed after the loan funds 
were actually drawn. But I cant see that this administrative issue caused Mrs B any 
problems at the time either.Payments stopping in September 2018
Perhaps adding some further confusion is the fact that Clydesdale stopped taking 
monthly payments in September 2018  five years after the loan was set up. 
I understand Mrs B had been paying by direct debit, but the payment due in October 
wasnt collected. 
Ive not been able to determine why this happened either. The bank says the loan was 
reviewable after five years. But I cant see that this is provided for in the loan 
agreement. As referred to above, the agreement states that the loan was repayable in 
180 monthly instalments. While there may have been a separate decision or 
agreement to review things after five years, I dont see how this wouldve led to the 
termination of the direct debit instruction. And it doesnt seem Mrs B was contacted or 
notified about this either.
So I think a further error was made here. And then when Mrs B had to call the bank to 
try to rectify the matter, the adviser didnt get back to her as promised and the matter 
went unresolved. 
As things transpired, Mrs B didnt want  or at least, didnt need  the direct debit 
reinstating as, by coincidence, she was looking to wind down her business and pay the 
loan off altogether. But by virtue of the monthly payments not being maintained, the 
balance was higher than it otherwise wouldve been and therefore incurred additional 
interest. 
Clydesdale has already refunded the additional interest that Mrs B was charged as a 
result of these errors, so I think this covers any losses she suffered in this respect.
Delays in applying the lump sum payment in February 2019
Mrs B was also unhappy that Clydesdale took over two weeks to action her request for 
a lump sum repayment to be made. On 4 February 2019, she asked the bank to 
transfer £25,000 from her business account (held with Clydesdale) to the loan account. 
Clydesdale acknowledged the request on 6 February, but only made the transfer on 
19 February. 
Clydesdale says it backdated the transfer to 4 February and refunded the additional 
interest that Mrs B incurred as a result of the delay. So again I think this covers any 
financial loss that Mrs B suffered due to this error.
Customer service issues
More broadly, Mrs B is also unhappy with the level of service shes received from 
Clydesdale. In particular, and in addition to the above, shes highlighted that she didnt 
get a proper redemption figure until late April 2019, despite repeated requests from 
November 2018 onwards. 
Clydesdales accepted that the queries Mrs B raised in November 2018 werent 
addressed until January 2019. Ive not got much in the way of evidence to support the 
amount of calls Mrs B had to make before she got the information she needed. But Ive 
no reason to doubt what she says. Im sure this wouldve added to Mrs Bs frustration at how things were being handled 
and it wouldve put her to some additional trouble. But I dont think it caused her to lose 
out financially. From what shes told us, I understand that she was waiting on the sale 
of the commercial premises to complete before repaying the loan until April (when 
unfortunately it fell through). She subsequently decided to repay the loan with other 
funds, which she duly did in May. So I cant see that the absence of a confirmed 
redemption figure, or more detailed breakdown of the amount she owed, had much of 
an impact on the settlement of the loan.
Mrs B has also highlighted that in previous years she had approached the bank with a 
view to making overpayments to the loan, but it didnt get back to her. She also says 
she was unable to make additional payments to the loan through her online banking. 
Again theres little in the way of documentary evidence to support the contact or show 
what Mrs B told Clydesdale about this. But Ive no reason to doubt what she says. 
Again Im sure this wouldve been frustrating for Mrs B  and if she wasnt able to 
make overpayments as intended, she will have ended up paying more in interest on 
the loan. But at the same time, shell have retained those funds and had the benefit of 
them elsewhere  whether using them for something else or earning interest. And if 
the matter had been particularly pressing for Mrs B, I think she couldve done more to 
escalate the matter with the bank at the time  raising a complaint if necessary  to fix 
things, and mitigate any losses. So Im not intending to direct Clydesdale to 
compensate Mrs B for any financial loss in this regard.
It also seems that Mrs B ended up being put under a degree of pressure by 
Clydesdale to settle the loan during early 2019. As Ive set out above, I think the loan 
was scheduled to run for 15 years and cant see any basis on which Clydesdale could 
fairly have called it in (as Mrs B had been up-to-date with payments). The banks 
internal notes suggest it saw the non-payment from October to December as cause for 
concern (when it actually seems to be the result of its own errors). But in the event, 
this seems to have broadly aligned with Mrs Bs aims, coinciding with the winding up of 
her business and the sale of her premises. I dont see that will have lost out financially 
as a result of this, as she had funds available to pay the outstanding balance  and 
settling as early as possible reduced the amount of interest she had to pay. But again 
I appreciate that it likely caused her some additional stress while trying to arrange the 
sale of the commercial premises and sort out these other issues with the bank.
While I dont think Mrs B has suffered any other financial losses, its clear that she has 
been to a great deal of inconvenience  and caused some understandable frustration  
by these shortcomings in the banks service. The errors in 2013 meant that she had to 
deal with two sets of loan documentation rather than one, but more severely seem to 
have given rise to some confusion when the payment instruction was stopped in 2018. 
Mrs Bs had to make a number of calls to sort things out and chase things up, while not 
receiving contact from the bank despite her requests (and its promises). When Mrs B 
has queried these matters, the bank hasnt really been able to properly explain whats 
happened  giving her understandable cause for concern. And she seems to have 
been pushed along to redeem the loan in 2019, when there was no cause for the loan 
to be called in early.
So its right that Mrs B is compensated for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. In this respect, I agree with our investigator that £500 better reflects the 
trouble and upset than the banks original offer of £200. As I understand that the £200 
hasnt yet been paid to Mrs B, Im intending to direct Clydesdale to pay her £500. This 
is separate to the £75 that the bank separately offered for the way it handled Mrs Bs 
complaint, and which I understand has already been paid.Mrs B responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision. Clydesdale didnt 
respond with anything further for me to take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new evidence or information from either party for me to take 
into account, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc 
to pay her compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman