DRN-1533114
The complaint
Mr S says that esure Insurance Limited (esure) mis-sold him a car insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr S took out a car insurance policy with esure online  via a price 
comparison website. His cover included voluntary excess of £500, making the overall excess 
on the policy £1,050. 
In November 2018, Mr S called esure as his car had broken down. So, he wanted to transfer 
his policy onto another car that he would be driving instead. Mr S estimated the value of the 
car to be around £400 and when asked about the excess, he said he was happy with it. The 
adviser then said the policy would be transferred and Mr S was sent information in the post 
confirming this shortly afterwards.
In June 2019, Mr S made a claim on his policy following an accident. esure said that the car 
was a total loss and valued it at £900. But as Mr Ss total excess on the policy was £1,050, 
higher than the insured loss (the value of the car), esure said it couldnt pursue the claim. 
Mr S was unhappy about this and said the policy was mis-sold to him. In particular, he 
makes the following points:
The policy wasnt fit for purpose and was of no use to him.
Nobody explained that choosing an excess higher than the value of the car would 
mean that he had no valid claim in these circumstances.
If he knew his claim would be invalid, he wouldnt have chosen fully comprehensive 
cover and wouldve chosen something cheaper instead, such as third party fire and 
theft cover.
He is a vulnerable consumer, and so things shouldve been explained more clearly to 
him.
The insurer didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said that when the policy was 
initially taken out online, Mr S chose a voluntary excess of £500. It also said that Mr S 
estimated the value of his car to be £400. So, its likely he wouldve always known that the 
excess would be more than the value of the car. It did, however, pay Mr S £50 for some 
customer service issues when Mr S first raised his complaint. Unhappy with esures 
response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think esure had done anything wrong. 
In summary, he thought that esure had given Mr S enough information about his policy at the 
time of sale. He also listened to the call Mr S had with an adviser when he switched his 
policy over onto his other car. Our investigator thought the adviser clearly explained the cost 
of the excess on the call, and Mr S seemed to understand what this meant. Mr S disagreed 
with our investigator as he remained of the opinion the policy had been mis-sold to him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I understand this will come as 
a disappointment to Mr S, so Ill explain my reasons why.
In September 2018, Mr S used a price comparison website to find car insurance. This was a 
non-advised sale and as part of the process Mr S was asked a number of questions such as 
what cover he wanted and how much voluntary excess he was willing to pay. He chose fully 
comprehensive cover and a voluntary excess of £500. Based on his answers esure offered a 
policy which met his requirements, which Mr S chose to purchase. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me the questions Mr S was asked were unclear. Nor have I seen anything to 
persuade me the policy offered by esure didnt match what Mr S had said he wanted. It 
follows that I dont think esure mis-sold the policy.
In November 2018, when Mr S called to transfer his policy onto his other car, the adviser 
asked whether he was happy with the existing excess on the policy. Mr S said that he was. 
When asked whether he would like to buy Motor Legal Protection as an add-on, Mr S said:
Considering the price of the vehicle and considering the price of the excess, I dont 
feel it would be a plausible thing for me to be doing I dont see the cost-
effectiveness for me. 
Having listened to the call, I dont think there is anything to indicate that Mr S didnt 
understand how the excess on his policy would work. Following the call, Mr S wouldve been 
sent information about his policy, including a schedule of insurance. The schedule had 
details about the level of cover and excess chosen. It also recommended that Mr S read the 
document carefully to ensure the information was correct. Considering this, I think esure 
gave Mr S enough information at the point of sale, and on the call, to decide if he was happy 
with the policy. And, during the call, the adviser made it clear that the total excess was 
significantly higher than the value Mr S placed on the car. 
Mr S has told us he has dyslexia, and is a vulnerable customer, so he needs things to be 
explained clearly to him. Having listened to the call from November 2018, I think Mr Ss 
response gave the impression that he understood things clearly. So, the adviser wouldnt 
have known she needed to go into any more detail on the call and I would only expect the 
adviser to go into more detail than she did if shed been made aware that Mr S had some 
difficulty understanding things. It was Mr Ss responsibility to let esure know if this was the 
case. Having listened to the call, he didnt do this. So, I dont think that esure has done 
anything wrong here. 
I note esure has offered £50 for customer service issues when Mr S raised his complaint and 
said this has already been paid. As this doesnt form part of the complaint that has come to 
me, I wont be considering this further. Mr S has suggested that the payment of £50 supports 
his argument that the policy was mis-sold, and esure wouldnt be paying him if nothing had 
gone wrong. Im afraid I dont agree with Mr S here. Having reviewed esures final response 
to the complaint, I think its clear that this payment was for customer service only, and it 
doesnt automatically follow that the policy was therefore mis-sold.
Mr S has explained that hes unhappy esure arent helping him with his claim. But as the 
total excess on the policy was higher than the insured loss, Mr Ss claim wasnt covered. So, 
I dont find that esure has acted unfairly by not progressing it. In summary, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mr S, nor do I think it was unfair for 
esure not to pursue his claim following the accident. So, I dont think esure has acted unfairly 
here. It follows that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman