DRN-1975753
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium v payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan with Nationwide in 1996. They were sold the PPI in connection 
with this loan at the same time. Its not clear whether the loan itself was a secured or 
unsecured loan.
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M lost his 
job. It would have provided a monthly benefit for the remaining term of the loan if Mr M was 
off work sick if the loan was secured, and for up to 24 months if the loan was unsecured. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome but I will now go on to explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr M was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Ms age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr M would have been 
eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs M say PPI was added without 
their consent.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and   
Mrs M and Nationwide have told us and looked to the documents available to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Nationwide no longer have the application form/actual credit agreement from the time of the 
sale. However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale and so I cant 
hold it against them that they can no longer provide us with these to show how PPI would 
have been presented during the sale. However, they have provided us with sample credit 
agreements (for both secured and unsecured loans) from before this sale as well as credit 
agreements from after the sale. And so I think its likely that the agreement Mr and Mrs M 
would have signed would have been similar to these credit agreements. And these credit 
agreements show that PPI was presented as optional. The PPI would only have been 
added to the account if Mr and Mrs M signed the agreement.
So, while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs M have told us, based on the evidence available to 
me, I cant say its more likely that the PPI wasnt presented as optional or that it was added 
to the account without their consent.
Nationwide say they didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to take PPI and I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest otherwise. This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps to check the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M. So for example, they didnt have to take into account Mr and Mrs 
Ms existing repayment provisions or consider whether the policy was affordable for Mr and 
Mrs M. 
However, Nationwide did have to provide Mr and Mrs M with clear information so that they 
could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should 
have drawn Mr and Mrs Ms attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions 
in the policy. 
I dont think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M all of the information as they shouldve about the 
costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. But this in itself doesnt mean 
the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve 
put Mr and Mrs M off taking the policy. And I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
- The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms employee sick pay and would 
have done so potentially for a much longer period of time. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mr M may have been entitled to. 
- Mr M didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs M couldve cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer needed or wanted it.
- While I note the comments Mr M has made about additional costs, I havent seen any 
evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Mr and Mrs M or that the 
policy provided poor value for money in Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr and Mrs M this 
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman