DRN-4024563
The complaint
Mrs S complains Quilter Holdings Limited (Quilter) mis-sold her a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan and didnt tell her an alternative might have been 
more suitable. Mrs S is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Mrs S.
What happened
In 1996, Mrs S met with an independent financial adviser (IFA) who was an appointed 
representative of a firm Quilter later became responsible for. Mrs S was in her mid-forties, 
employed as a teacher, and a member of her occupational pension scheme. Following this 
meeting, Mrs S bought an FSAVC plan to increase her retirement benefits, and she says she 
increased her FSAVC contributions over the years. Mrs S retired in 2008 and took her 
FSAVC benefits in 2009.
In July 2022 Mrs S complained to Quilter that in 1996, it hadnt told her contributing to her in-
scheme Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) arrangement was a better option for her, 
as the lower charges meant more of her contribution would go towards her retirement 
benefits. 
Quilter said Mrs S had complained too late, as it was more than six years since the 1996 
sale, and more than three years since Mrs S ought reasonably to have been aware she had 
cause for complaint about the sale. Because in 1996, Quilter discussed AVCs with Mrs S 
and set out the details of her FSAVC. And when Mrs S retired, shed have known if her 
benefits were less than she was expecting. And in 1997, Quilter sent Mrs S updated FSAVC 
policy documents after updating her FSAVC terms and conditions. And Mrs S would have 
been sent annual statements over the years. Quilter said all these things set out the basis of 
Mrs Ss FSAVC, and if she was in any way unhappy with it, she could have complained. 
Quilter went on to say that in the 1996 sale and over the lifetime of her FSAVC, it had given 
Mrs S the necessary information to make informed decisions, and an FSAVC would have 
met her objective of a flexible income at retirement.
Mrs S came to our Service and was able to provide some of the letters shed received from 
Quilter over the years. Quilter didnt change its position, and said the time passed meant it 
no longer held any sale documents. 
Our Investigator thought Mrs S had complained in time. He said the evidence didnt show 
Quilter had compared the benefits of an AVC with an FSAVC. And while Mrs S mightve 
received less FSAVC retirement benefits than she expected, she likely thought that was due 
to general market conditions rather than any issue with the 1996 advice. Our Investigator 
thought the first time Mrs S ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for 
complaint was when ex-colleagues told her in 2020 that theyd had better returns with their 
AVC. 
Quilter disagreed. It said the rules didnt require Mrs S to know exactly what was wrong, just 
that there might be something wrong. It said Mrs S was told at the time of the sale what 
FSAVC benefits to expect. And at retirement, shed have been told what shed actually 
receive. So Mrs S ought to have realised there was an issue when her expectations werent 
met at retirement. Quilter said comparisons between an AVC and FSAVC didnt matter, only 
what income was provided. And most of Mrs Ss complaint was about charges, but the 
charges and why an FSAVC was recommended were made clear in 1996.
Our Investigator didnt change their view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
was passed to me to decide. On 28 February 2023, I issued my provisional decision, in 
which I explained why I thought this complaint had been brought in time, and went on to 
explain why I thought it should be upheld.
Mrs S received my provisional decision but didnt provide any further comments or evidence 
for me to consider. 
For its part, Quilter did provide further comments for me to consider. In summary, Quilter 
said I should have separately considered the time limits issue before considering the 
complaints merits and still thought this complaint had been made too late. It disagreed with 
all my reasoning about when Mrs S ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for 
complaint. In particular, Quilter still thought Mrs S ought to have realised this when she 
received much less than she was told to expect on retirement - while Id said Mrs S wouldve 
thought this was because of the 2008 financial crisis, Mrs S could have deferred taking her 
benefits until the markets had recovered.  And as Id said simply seeing FSAVC information 
wasnt enough for Mrs S to have reasonably been aware she had cause for complaint here, 
Quilter was unsure of my understanding of the disclosure rules at that time. 
Quilter also thought the 1996 advice was suitable, and pointed out the suitability letter noted 
AVCs had been discussed and discounted for various reasons. Quilter said I seemed to be 
applying current regulations and guidance to a sale that happened in 1996. And that Mrs S 
wouldnt have got higher returns from an AVC than an FSAVC, especially as she took her 
benefits early. Quilter thought the redress Id set out didnt represent the return available 
from an AVC, and the FTSE income indices and fixed rate bonds were more appropriate 
than a growth index. 
Im now in a position to make my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Quilter says I may be applying current regulations and guidance to a sale that 
happened in 1996, but its not specified where it thinks this is the case. Regardless, Id like 
to reassure both parties that in considering this complaint, Ive taken into account the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of the sale. 
And Ive carefully considered everything that Mrs S and Quilter have provided to our 
Service. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Quilter is also concerned Ive not considered the issue of time limits separately, before 
considering the merits. But Id like to reassure both parties that my first consideration here is 
whether this complaint is within our Services jurisdiction, including the relevant time limit 
rules  this is what the Dispute Resolution (DISP): Complaints rules set out by the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority, require me to do. And having reconsidered all the evidence and comments that have been provided to me, I still think this complaint has been brought 
within the time limits for the reasons I explained in my provisional findings. 
I know Quilter doesnt agree with this and thinks Mrs S should reasonably have been aware 
she had cause for complaint earlier, and certainly when she received less on retirement from 
her FSAVC than she was told to expect. Ultimately, Mrs Ss complaint is essentially that 
Quilter should have advised her to buy an AVC instead of an FSAVC, as the lower charges 
made an AVC more suitable for her. And Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mrs S 
ought reasonable to have been aware she had cause for complaint about this until meeting 
her ex-colleagues in 2020. So Im satisfied this complaint has been brought within the time 
limits.   
Given this, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mrs Ss complaint against Quilter, to hasten 
certainty and finality for the benefit of both parties. And having reconsidered all the evidence 
and comments that have been provided to me, I still think this is a complaint that should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
The FSAVC was sold by an IFA. So at the time of the September 1996 sale, Quilter was 
required to follow the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory 
Association (FIMBRA) rules. And the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) adopted the 
FIMBRA rules when it took over. These rules said that an adviser should:
Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care in 
forming its belief, that no transaction in any other such investment (of which it ought 
reasonably to be aware) would be likely to secure the objectives of the consumer more 
advantageously, and
Take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate and 
reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the recommendation.
And in May 1996 the PIA issued a regulatory update (RU20) which set out the procedures it 
expected product providers to follow. It reiterated what FIMBRA already expected, that the 
IFA should establish what in-house alternatives to the FSAVC were available and discuss 
the specific differences between them when making their recommendation. It said this 
discussion should include:
The difference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC.
The choice of investments.
The availability of added years and the number of years that could be purchased.
The degree of personal control and privacy.
The age at which benefits could be taken.
The degree of portability on changing jobs or becoming self-employed.
RU20 also referred to the lower charges under an in-house AVC, saying Charges under in-
scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting economies of 
scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the employer. Of 
all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest impact on which 
route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
As I say, Quilter has told us it no longer holds any records about the 1996 sale. But Mrs S 
has been able to provide some limited information. This includes a copy of Quilters 
suitability letter dated 17 September 1996, the post-sale FSAVC information document, the 
update letter it sent her in 1997, and the covering letter for an FSAVC statement it sent her 
in 2001. The suitability letter says Mrs Ss objectives were to 1) maximise her income in retirement; 2) 
protect her income in the event of ill health; and 3) protect her mortgage in the event of her 
death. The letter went on to say that Mrs S was checking whether she already had cover for 
objectives 2) and 3). So at the time of the 1996 sale, Mrs Ss key and unmet objective was 
maximising her retirement income. The suitability letter said the options of FSAVCs, added 
years and AVCs had been discussed with Mrs S, but she preferred FSAVCs because of the 
flexibility, portability, investment choice, performance and lump sum death benefits. 
So, from the suitability letter, Im satisfied that Quilter mentioned AVCs and added years to 
Mrs S. Quilter says AVCs must have been discussed and discounted for various reasons, as 
the suitability letter says so. But the suitability letter doesnt give any details of what Quilter 
told Mrs S about either added years or AVCs, nor does it say that Quilter discussed the 
differences between FSAVCs and AVCs with Mrs S, or that it told her about the number of 
added years that could be purchased. And Ive not been provided with any other evidence to 
suggest that Quilter did these things.
Therefore, while I know Quilter thinks the advice was suitable, Im not persuaded that Quilter 
did enough at the time of the sale in 1996 to comply with the regulators requirements. In 
particular, Im not persuaded it did enough to discuss the specific differences between an 
FSAVC and in-house alternatives with Mrs S, or include enough information for her to decide 
whether to accept the recommendation. And Ive not been provided with anything to make 
me think Quilter did these things at a later point, for example, when Mrs S increased her 
FSAVC contributions as she says she did. 
Given this, Ive thought about whether Mrs S would most likely have opted for one of the in-
house options rather than the FSAVC, if Quilter had complied with the regulators 
requirements. And if the advice given to Mrs S in September 1996 had been compliant and 
shed been provided with the information she should have been about alternative options, 
then I think its more likely than not she wouldnt have opted to take out an FSAVC. 
I say that because, given what I know of Mrs Ss circumstances at the 1996 sale, an in-
scheme AVC seems to have been a better option for her. Her main, unmet, objective was to 
maximise her retirement income. I know Quilter argues Mrs S wouldnt have got higher 
returns from an AVC than an FSAVC, especially as she took her benefits early. But its still 
the case that as RU20 highlighted, AVCs usually had lower charges than FSAVCs, meaning 
more of Mrs Ss contribution would have been invested into her pension fund for retirement. 
And while the suitability letter suggests Mrs S liked the idea of flexibility and portability, it 
doesnt explain why, so Ive not seen enough evidence to make me think these were 
important considerations for Mrs S. Given all this, I cant see any reason why Mrs S would 
have opted for an FSAVC that cost more and meant less of her contributions went towards 
her pension fund. 
Some occupational pension schemes offered an alternative to AVCs known as added years,
where additional contributions could be used to purchase additional years of service in the
occupational scheme. The complaint that Mrs S has brought to our Service is about not 
being provided with information about the in-house AVC scheme, not added years. But for 
completeness, Ive also thought about whether Mrs S would most likely have opted for 
added years rather than FSAVCs or AVCs, if Quilter had complied with the regulators 
requirements. 
As I say, the evidence is limited here. But from what I can see, I think that at the time of the 
1996 advice, Mrs S had about 20 years of service in her occupational pension scheme. And 
I dont think the amount Mrs S was contributing to her FSAVC plan would have been enough 
to buy the added years shed need to reach the maximum number of years service in her occupational pension scheme. Further, the cost of buying added years is determined by 
government actuaries, and is based on a set of conservative assumptions. This means 
added years would have seemed expensive when compared with the potential benefits 
available from a money purchase options like the FSAVC or AVC. And at the time it wouldve 
been expected that the AVC scheme would produce greater benefits on retirement as 
investment returns were expected to be high. So I think its more likely Mrs S wouldve opted 
to invest in the in-house AVC option, as opposed to buying added years.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that if Mrs S been given all the relevant 
information during the sale, she would more likely than not have opted for the in-house AVC 
option, as opposed to purchasing an FSAVC plan or added years.
I understand Quilter thinks the redress I set out in my provisional findings didnt represent 
the return available from an AVC, and that the FTSE income indices and fixed rate bonds 
were more appropriate than a growth index. But for clarity, Im not asking Quilter to compare 
the returns from the FSAVC with those from an AVC. Im asking it to complete a calculation 
comparing the charges between the FSAVC and an AVC. The redress methodology I set out 
in my provisional findings is in line with that used in the FSAVC review and with what our 
Service recommends in these situations. 
Putting things right
I think that if Quilter had provided Mrs S with the information it should have done in 1996, 
she would have most likely started making contributions to her employers AVC scheme 
rather than taking a FSAVC plan.
Quilter should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Quilter should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied this complaint was made in time. And having 
considered all the evidence provided to me, I uphold it. Quilter Holdings Limited should pay 
Mrs S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman