DRN-3499773
The complaint
Mr K complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with his claim for emergency 
medical assistance against his travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr K has travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account. 
On 18 February 2020, Mr K departed on a trip and intended to return on 19 March 2020. 
Unfortunately, Mr K became unwell and on 11 March 2020, he sought medical attention. 
Mr K was diagnosed with hypertension and anxiety and given medication. 
I understand that on 16 March 2020, Mr K told the airline that he wasnt fit to fly and 
rearranged his flight for 18 April 2020. On 19 March 2020 - the date of his original 
departure date - Mr K contacted UKI in order to make a claim. He said that he wasnt fit 
to fly. UKI asked Mr K for certain medical information. It also sought medical information 
from Mr Ks GP. There was some difficulty in obtaining the information UKI needed and 
therefore, in validating Mr Ks claim. 
On 23 March 2020, the government of Mr Ks destination country closed its borders and 
on 1 April 2020 it put in place a national lockdown. I understand Mr Ks rearranged return 
flight on 18 April 2020 was cancelled. 
On 14 May 2020, UKI validated Mr Ks claim and told him that it would deal with his 
claim. On 17 May 2020, UKI sent guarantee of payment to the facility treating Mr K and 
subsequently made contact with Mr Ks accommodation provider. There were exchanges 
between UKI and Mr K about his fitness to fly and UKI required information about other 
medical matters. On 29 June 2020, UKI told Mr K that his case was financially 
guaranteed. 
UKI tried to arrange a return flight for Mr K but several flights were cancelled by the 
airline and Mr K was concerned about the safety of some of the airlines. UKI arranged a 
repatriation flight for Mr K and he returned to the UK on 24 August 2020. UKI paid Mr Ks 
medical expenses and accommodation costs. 
Mr K complained to UKI about the service he received. UKI upheld Mr Ks complaint and 
paid him compensation of £750. Mr K didnt think that was sufficient and pursued his 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that UKI had done 
enough to put matters right. Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said that 
compensation of £750 wasnt sufficient after all the trauma and personal financial impact 
he'd endured because of UKIs failings. 
Mr K said that he was unwell, ran out of money and faced the threat of eviction from the 
accommodation he was in. He says that he was away from work which meant a loss of 
earnings but he still had to pay his rent and bills in the UK and had the added financial 
burden of paying for food and essentials in his destination country, as UKI only paid for 
his accommodation. He wants compensation of at least £3,000 for his losses, expenses, 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed into a short narrative what was no doubt a worrying time 
for Mr K. But Im satisfied that I captured the essence of what happened. 
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
 
Section D Emergency Medical and Related Costs
What is covered
We will cover you for the following expenses if you die, are injured, become ill or are 
quarantined while on a trip:
1. Emergency Medical Costs outside your home area
 Emergency medical, surgical and hospital treatment (including ambulance and rescue 
service fees to take you to hospital) incurred outside your home area:
[]
2. Related Costs outside or inside your home area
 Additional travel and accommodation expenses:
-to get you to or from hospital, where such expenses relate to your in-patient admission or
discharge, or attending for outpatient treatment or appointments:
- needed to return you to your home area on the advice of our medical advisor
-that you have to pay to get home following emergency medical treatment and where you
cannot use your return ticket:
- []
 Additional accommodation costs of a similar standard to the accommodation you had 
booked for your trip if it is medically necessary for you to stay after the date you intended to 
return home:
 Cost of telephone calls:
-that you make to our emergency assistance service: or
- incurred by you when you receive calls from our emergency assistance service:
[]
General exclusions
[] 
You are not covered for any of the following:
[]
4. Uninsured Costs
We will not cover any claim for
 any loss not specifically covered by this policy (for example loss of earnings because you 
are not able to return to work after an injury or illness that happened on a trip or costs 
associated with returning your vehicle to your home area): or any payment that you would normally have to make during your trip.
General conditions
[]
4. Evidence Of Claims
 you or your legal representatives must provide at your own expense all certificates, 
information and evidence that we need in order to consider your claim:
 if your claim is for injury or illness we may ask for your permission that we may contact 
your doctor to get access to your medical records []
has the claim been handled unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Ks  
complaint because I think that UKI has done enough to put matters right. I say that because: 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If an insurer  
seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show 
that exclusion applies.
Mr Ks policy covers him for emergency medical and certain related costs and 
additional travel and accommodation expenses. UKI has paid Mr Ks medical costs 
and additional travel and accommodation expenses. But its common ground that 
Mr K received poor service from UKI.
Ive looked carefully at the chronology of events. In a claim like the one here, its 
usual for an insurer to seek medical information before validating the claim and 
confirming cover. I dont think that UKI was at fault in asking Mr Ks GP or his 
treating doctors for certain information. But UKI delayed in obtaining medical 
information from Mr Ks GP and therefore in determining whether Mr Ks claim was 
covered. That meant that there was a delay in providing the treating facility with a 
guarantee of payment and meeting Mr Ks additional accommodation costs.  
UKIs delays caused Mr K unnecessary distress and inconvenience at an already 
stressful time. Mr K wasnt certain what was covered and was embarrassed and 
stressed by both the treating hospital and his accommodation provider asking him 
about payment. But I cant see that Mr Ks treatment was delayed by UKIs actions 
or that he was forced to leave his accommodation  although I appreciate that he 
changed accommodation as he was concerned about additional food costs. 
In addition to his food costs, Mr K was understandably concerned about his other 
essential costs whilst he was away for an extended period. Hes also mentioned his 
loss of earnings and domestic bills in the UK. Mr Ks policy excludes any loss not 
specifically covered by the policy - for example loss of earnings - and any payment 
he would normally have to make, such as his food and essential costs and bills in 
the UK. I think it would be fair for UKI to rely on the exclusions in the policy in 
relation to these matters. There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct UKI to 
cover costs not covered by the policy in this case. 
The difficulties Mr K had in returning to the UK were largely due to the restrictions 
put in place by the government of Mr Ks destination country in response to the Covid-19 pandemic and the difficulties getting flights. Those matters were not in 
UKIs control . 
Ive thought about this matter carefully. Considering everything, I think that UKIs 
payment of £750 in relation to Mr Ks distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive looked at the nature, extent, and 
duration of Mr Ks distress and inconvenience which was caused by UKIs errors. I 
appreciate that Mr K would like considerably more compensation, but I dont think 
that there are any grounds on which I could fairly direct UKI to pay more. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman