DRN-2581351
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about credit limit increases, and the interest and charges applied to his 
credit card account with Vanquis Bank Limited.
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with Vanquis in October 2010.
Mr B says he took advantage of any credit limit increases offered by Vanquis in order 
to get more money. But he says this meant he had difficulty in managing the card 
ever since its been open.
Mr B wasnt happy about the way his account had been managed and complained to 
Vanquis. He asked for a refund of all interest and over-limit fees that had been 
charged to his account.
Vanquis said Mr B was out of time to complain about some of the credit limit 
increases and charges. It reviewed the charges on his account from September 2014 
and concluded they had been applied correctly in line with Mr Bs account terms. 
Vanquis said it had frozen interest and charges at times on the account. So it didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded Mr Bs complaint about the events that 
happened on his account before September 2014 was out of time. 
With regard to the events that happened after September 2014, our investigator 
concluded Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld because they found Vanquis had 
applied the charges fairly and in line with his account terms. They also concluded 
Vanquis had treated Mr B positively and sympathetically when it had been aware he 
was in financial difficulty.
Mr B doesnt agree, he says the charges have had a big impact on his life.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Our investigator has already explained why we cant consider the charges and limit 
increases which happened more than 6 years ago on Mr Bs account, so I wont go 
into detail about that again here. And I cant see any further limit increases after 
September 2014. So instead Ill focus on how Vanquis administered Mr Bs account 
from September 2014 onwards.
Vanquis has provided a full breakdown of the charges applied to Mr Bs account.     
Mr B hasnt specifically said which charges he feels were unfair, so Ive looked at all 
the charges applied to his account. I can see the charges relate to times Mr B 
exceeded his credit limit, made a late payment, or missed a payment. 
Ive next considered the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account to see if the 
circumstances Ive mentioned above were clearly set out. The terms of Mr Bs 
account state, under Key Information, 4.1 If you breach this agreement we may 
charge you for the following administrative costs(Late Payment Charge)(Over 
Limit Charge)(Return Payment Charge) I think the list of charges and amounts 
are clear in this document, so I think it was reasonable for Vanquis to apply the 
charges when it did. I havent seen evidence that any of the charges were applied 
unfairly.
I understand that Mr B said these charges have had a big impact on his life. But 
having considered Vanquis actions as a whole, Im satisfied it treated him positively 
and sympathetically in this case. I say this because I can see it has frozen interest 
and charges on the account a number of times once Mr B made it aware he was in 
difficulty. 
I can see Vanquis has also refunded some of these charges over the years and 
entered into reduced payment arrangements with Mr B in line with his circumstances. 
So Im satisfied Vanquis treated Mr B fairly once it was aware of his financial 
difficulties.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman