DRN-4045192
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about the charges levied by Tesla Financial Services Limited (Tesla) 
when he returned his car inside 14 days.
What happened
Mr B ordered a new car over the internet from Tesla. This was being acquired through a 
conditional sale agreement. When it arrived on 22 March 2022, he collected it from a site 
around 30 miles from his home. He proceeded to drive the car for around 450 miles in the 
following days, before contacting Tesla to discuss his options as he didnt feel the vehicle 
was suitable for him.
After various discussions he asked to reject the car as per his 14 day cooling off period, 
and after a small delay due to Mr B being ill, the car was returned on 20 April 2022.
Mr B initially raised a complaint due to Tesla taking longer than he wanted or expected to 
return his deposit to him. This complaint has been dealt with separately, so I wont comment 
on it any further here. However, when his deposit was returned, Tesla had withheld £382.40 
of it as a mileage charge for the use of the car he had made before returning it.
He complained to them about this, saying that it was unfair, and they hadnt told him that he 
would be charged. In their final response letter (FRL) issued by email on 15 July 2022, Tesla 
did not uphold his complaint. They said that the mileage charges were laid out in the Motor 
Vehicle Order Agreement he agreed when placing the order, and they had confirmed again 
by email on 12 April 2022, when he was discussing the return of the vehicle, that the mileage 
charges would be deducted at the end once the car was dropped off.
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said that as he had rejected the 
vehicle under the 14 day terms laid out by Tesla in the order agreement and quoted the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 which deals with businesses being able to charge a consumer 
for fair usage when a car is being rejected.
Mr B didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He 
believes that the 60 mile limit provided by Tesla in the terms and conditions, before charges 
apply, doesnt allow for a consumer to assess whether the vehicle is fit for purpose. He also 
felt that because he had to drive 30 miles to collect the car, and 39 miles to deliver it back to 
Tesla, that it was unfair to be charged for these miles.
I issued a provisional decision on the case on 10 March 2023. My provisional findings were 
as follows:
In their view, the investigator talked about the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and how it 
provides for deductions to be made, when a car is being rejected, to recognise the fair use a 
consumer has had from a vehicle. Whilst this is all technically correct, the scenario here is 
different.
Mr B is not rejecting the car because its of unsatisfactory quality, based on his rights under 
the CRA. No evidence has been provided to show there were faults with the car that made it 
of unsatisfactory quality.
Instead, Tesla have acted based on their terms and conditions in their Motor Vehicle Order 
Agreement form, which was supplied when Mr B ordered the car online. This is about 
distance selling regulations, specifically the Consumer Contract Regulations 2013. This 
legislation is about distance selling and provides a consumer with the right to cancel an 
online order like this within 14 days.
These regulations are arguably more generous than those which apply for a face to face 
transaction carried out for example at a car dealership where it would be very unusual for a 
consumer to get 14 days to change their mind in conditional sale agreements which take 
place face to face where a car can be examined.
These regulations do provide for Mr B to get a refund in the circumstances which apply here, 
and it would be a full refund, subject to there being the right for the business to deduct an 
amount if the value of the goods has been reduced as a result of the consumer using the 
goods more than was necessary.
If this sale had taken place in a car dealership, Mr B could have viewed an example of the 
vehicle, and potentially taken a specific car for a test drive, but this wouldnt have been the 
brand new car he was then provided with, if he was to go ahead and order a new car.
I think its widely known that the value of a car drops once it is driven away from the 
forecourt. So, in this instance, Tesla have considered the impact of a consumer using the 
goods within that 14 days on the value of the car if the consumer decides to return it within 
the 14 day period. Theyve made the decision that limiting the mileage to 60 miles before 
being able to return the car for a full refund is fair, but if a consumer chooses to use the car 
for more than 60 miles, theyve laid out the charges which will apply.
I am satisfied that this is in line with the legislation and is a fair interpretation of their right to 
deduct an amount from the refund if the value of the goods has been reduced by a 
consumers use. I think a reasonable person would agree that a car with approaching 500 
miles on the odometer would not be able to be sold as a new car, so the sale price would 
have to be reduced.
Mr B has said that he had to drive the car 30 miles home and 39 miles back to a drop off 
point, alongside using it for around 400 miles of use, to assess whether the car was suitable 
for him. But Im not persuaded that he had to do these things.
Hes mentioned having to get the car home and change the tyre pressures before driving it 
for two long trips, to decide whether the vehicle met his needs. I dont agree that this amount 
of use is required to decide if the car meets his needs. For example, he could have changed 
the tyre pressures nearby to the collection point of the car and driven the car locally.
The 14 day cooling off period doesnt provide for a 14 day test drive for a consumer to 
decide if they want the car. This period is to allow a consumer long enough to inspect the 
goods. This is recognised in the legislation as allowing the goods to be handled in the same 
way as would be available were you to be assessing the goods in a shop, or in this case, a 
car dealership. I dont think a consumer would reasonably expect to be able to take a brand 
new car from a dealership for 14 days and drive it nearly 500 miles, before bringing it back 
and getting a full refund.
If there were diagnosed faults with the vehicle that made it of unsatisfactory quality, I would also have no concerns about the business making a charge for fair use of the vehicle. With a 
monthly payment of £883 on this finance agreement, and Mr B using the car for at least half 
a month and approaching 500 miles, it would still be fair for the business to charge for two 
weeks use or a fair mileage charge. But theres been no evidence supplied of any faults with 
the vehicle, and I am satisfied it has been returned solely based on Mr Bs rights under the 
Consumer Contract Regulations 2013.
Mr B didnt feel that the 60 mile limit was sufficient for him to assess whether the vehicle is fit 
for purpose, but I dont agree. I am satisfied that he could have assessed the vehicle met his 
needs within 60 miles of use, and because hes chosen to undertake more miles, based on 
the legislation, it is fair for him to be charged for this additional use.
Ive then considered whether this information was disclosed to Mr B fairly and in good time. 
The Motor Vehicle Order Agreement was supplied and accepted electronically on 9 
November 2021 by Mr B. It outlines on page five that the car can be returned within 14 days, 
and all payments will be refunded, subject to deducting an amount to reflect diminished 
value of the vehicle resulting from unnecessary handling by you in accordance with the law 
governing this agreement if you have used the vehicle beyond what is necessary to check 
the nature, characteristics and functioning of the vehicle.
It goes on to say that there will be a usage charge of 0.55 Euros per kilometre (or the local 
equivalent) if a consumer has driven in excess of 100 kms or 60 miles. I am satisfied that 
these charges are fair, and in accordance with the relevant legislation, and were disclosed to 
Mr B when he placed his order. Tesla also confirmed in an email on 12 April 2022, when 
discussing the return of his car, that mileage charges would be calculated once the car was 
dropped off.
Finally, Mr B has said its unfair for him to be charged the mileage for picking up his car or 
dropping it off, and doesnt think its fair that he would be charged nothing for driving 59 
miles, but charged for all 61 miles were he to have done that. As Ive mentioned, I am 
satisfied that paying for miles to and from his home is fair. He could have chosen to inspect 
and test the car on the day he collected it, locally to the collection point, without having to 
drive it back to his house.
Again, if we compare the process to buying a car from a dealership, a customer wouldnt be 
allowed to take a new car home to try it out and decide if they wanted it. This might happen 
with a car used for test drives, but not with an actual brand new car. Alongside this, he has  
confirmed that Tesla dont offer a delivery to home service, so he ordered the car, in the 
knowledge that hed have to collect it, and also with the details of the 14 day right to change 
his mind already given to him.
With regards to the fairness of not being charged for 59 miles use but being charged 61 
miles worth of use for 61 miles, again, I cant say this is unfair. Tesla have worked out, in line 
with the legislation, at what point excessive handling (use) of the car impacts the value of it, 
and I am satisfied that their judgement of 60 miles feels fair. So, I cant say its unfair to have 
to pay for all miles used once the figure of 60 miles has been exceeded, because this charge 
reflects the reduced value of the car.
Im sorry that Mr B feels Teslas terms and conditions here are unfair, but I cant agree that 
hes been treated unfairly, or shouldnt have to pay the £382.40 charge. I wont be asking 
Tesla to do any more here.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesla did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr B did and made several points. He feels 
that his use of the car was not unfair or excessive and provided details of why he needed to 
travel those miles at that time. He also said he felt he had rejected the vehicle based on 
faults with it, and that most importantly, he felt Tesla would not have made a loss on 
reselling the vehicle due to unusual circumstances in the used car market when he returned 
it to them. 
Ive considered all Mr Bs points, but Im not persuaded by them. There is no evidence that 
Mr B rejected the car due to it being of unsatisfactory quality. What I mean by this is that Mr 
B didnt exercise his rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, to say that the goods were 
not of satisfactory quality. He didnt provide evidence of faults and ask Tesla to process a 
rejection of the car on these grounds, and if he had, they still would have been entitled to 
charge a mileage charge for fair usage while he had the car. 
Additionally, if the car was indeed not of satisfactory quality, I dont think Mr Bs argument 
that Tesla would have made a profit on reselling the car in the used car market would stand 
up, as presumably repairs would have been required. If Mr B wants to complain about the 
car not being of satisfactory quality, he would need to speak to Tesla and raise this concern 
with them. The complaint he has raised thus far has been about the mileage charge. But as 
already mentioned, it would likely still be fair for Tesla to make mileage charges for fair use, 
even if the car was proven to not be of satisfactory quality. 
When he returned the car, Mr B used the legal right he had to change his mind within 14 
days, based on this being an internet order. Tesla set out these terms to him before he 
ordered the car. These terms confirmed what his rights were, and where they had set fair 
usage, which was set at 60 miles. 
Mr B argues 60 miles isnt fair generally, and also specifically in his circumstances, but as I 
have already explained above in my provisional decision, I am satisfied that 60 miles is a fair 
point to set fair usage. Different businesses will set what they consider fair usage differently, 
but Ive considered Teslas terms, and as explained, I am satisfied they are fair. 
I wouldnt expect Tesla to agree bespoke terms for each person ordering a car; Mr B 
believes that because he had specific trips to do when the car was collected, they should 
have allowed him more mileage. Hes also highlighted that all the mileage was done in the 
first two days, and he feels two days is not excessive use to ensure the vehicle meets his 
needs. And he also feels that in this specific case, the value of the car hasnt been reduced 
by him driving approaching 500 miles. 
But as Ive explained, Im satisfied that this clause in the terms and conditions is fair, and in 
line with the legislation. Mr B thinks that in his specific circumstances, Tesla wont have lost 
any value on the car when he returned it, because of specifics in the used car market at the 
time. But equally, at other times, with other customers, Tesla might lose a lot more value on 
a vehicle than they get back for it from a charge for mileage. The terms and conditions are 
set out by Tesla to provide a standard, fair set up. They recognise these fluctuations and 
provide a fair usage point to allow a customer to receive a car and decide if they want to 
keep it before charges for usage will apply. 
I have empathy with Mr B and the timing here when he had places to go immediately after 
collecting the car. But Tesla have set out the terms and conditions for him explaining what they consider fair usage, which is 60 miles, and what his rights are in the legislation 
regarding having 14 days to change his mind. Theyve then explained what it will cost in 
mileage charges if he exceeds the 60 miles. If it was not possible for him to remain within 
these parameters, and not paying a mileage charge was important to him, Id have expected 
him to have discussed this with Tesla in advance of collecting the car, to either agree a 
different charging structure, or re-arrange his collection for a more suitable date.  
I feel the crux of the issue here is that Mr B would have liked Tesla to take his personal 
circumstances into account, and to have chosen not to charge him the mileage charges. 
Businesses always have an option in circumstances like these to choose to waive or reduce 
charges, as a gesture of goodwill. But it wouldnt be fair for me to expect Tesla to change 
their business practices, which I am satisfied are fair, to fit Mr Bs circumstances. And a 
gesture of goodwill is something only a business can decide whether they wish to do, its not 
for me to comment on.  
My role is to decide whether Tesla have treated Mr B fairly, in holding him to their terms and 
conditions. They had shared these terms before he had signed the agreement to acquire the 
car. I am satisfied that these terms are fair and in line with the relevant legislation. And its 
clear that under these terms, the charge for mileage is correct. As such, I cant say Tesla 
have done anything wrong in charging him and wont be asking them to do anything 
different.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman