DRN-3551307
The complaint
Miss A complains about Allianz Insurance PLC (Allianz) who wouldnt take responsibility for 
damage that was found, from work carried out by them years before, under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss A noticed that there was a gap in the skirting board and 
sludge/mould was present. She contacted her current insurer who inspected it but couldn't 
find anything. Miss A instructed a damp specialist who lifted the floor and saw dry rot. They 
advised Miss A to contact Allianz (her previous insurer) and report the dry rot as in 2017, 
Allianz had attended and carried out work following an escape of water. 
In 2017 Allianz had sent an engineer who conducted the drying out and it said that the 
issues that Miss A experienced in 2020, were not related to the drying out in 2017. It didnt 
accept liability for the dry rot. Miss A obtained a report from her current insurers as to why it 
declined her claim. The report essentially said that there had been inadequate drying out of 
the area and this was one of the reasons for the dry rot.
Allianz said that the report provided several reasons for the cause of the dry rot, not only 
inadequate drying out. Miss A obtained two further reports from damp specialists who 
concluded that the dry rot was caused by the inadequate drying out conducted in 2017. But 
despite this, Allianz said that there was nothing further it could reasonably do. 
Miss A was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  She said that 
Allianz werent unreasonable by not agreeing to cover the cost of the repair of the dry rot. 
She said that Allianz had relied upon the expert evidence from the contractor who carried out 
the drying out in 2017. And the reports that Miss A had obtained had raised a few issues 
which could be the cause of the dry rot. 
Allianz accepted the view, Miss A did not. She said that her two experts were experts in dry 
rot, and they said dry rot could take years to develop. She believed that there was no other 
explanation for the cause of the dry rot apart from the inadequate drying carried out by 
Allianz in 2017. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should not be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 May 2022 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 20 
June 2022. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why I think this is fair.
The main crux of this complaint centres around the expert reports that each party has relied 
upon. Allianz provided reports from its expert, who essentially said that the drying of the 
property back in 2017, hadnt failed and there couldve been a number of reasons why the 
dry rot occurred. It also said that there had been a previous issue with damp at Miss As 
home and this couldve been a reason why the dry rot occurred. 
Miss A obtained expert reports from two damp specialists. Both reports were essentially 
consistent in that they concluded that it was the previous drying out that happened in 2017, 
that had failed. And because of the inadequate drying, the dry rot had an environment where 
it could germinate. 
As there were two opposing opinions and the expert Allianz relied upon wasnt a damp 
specialist, an independent damp expert was instructed by Allianz to inspect Miss As home 
and to provide a report detailing what the exact cause of the dry rot was. 
The report from this independent expert concluded that dry rot spores could remain viable in 
a property for up to 20 years, if there were correct conditions present, to allow it to 
germinate. Those conditions would be a source of food (wood), no direct sunlight (the dry rot 
was located in a void), no air flow (the void), and water (from the escape of water). The 
report further went on to say that all four requirements were present in Miss As home and 
that the cause of the dry rot wasnt solely the drying, but the lack of investigation before the 
drying took place. As well as the subsequent drying, that was carried out by the drying 
specialists instructed by Allianz.  
Due to the conclusions reached by this expert, I asked Allianz to provide its comments on 
the report and whether in view of the report, it would re-consider Miss As claim. Allianz 
considered the report and ultimately agreed to cover the full costs of Miss As flooring. 
I understand from Miss A, that due to the time that it had taken for Allianz to agree to cover 
the repair costs, she had already undertaken the works required. In these circumstances, I 
think that its fair and reasonable, for Allianz to reimburse Miss As costs, on production of 
invoices.
I also think that given the time that this has taken to resolve and that both Miss As experts 
had provided evidence that was similar to the independent damp specialist, Im satisfied that 
Miss A suffered a level of distress and inconvenience. And I think that Allianz ought to 
recognise this, by paying compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused. 
To put matters right, I intend to direct Allianz as below.
Putting things right
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss A said that in May 2021, she had the dry rot treated at her home, this necessitated her 
and her family moving out for about a week. She said that there were no additional costs for 
the alternative accommodation, as she was able to stay with a family member. She also said 
that this alternative accommodation, would no longer be available, if she had to move out 
again. As to the work that Miss A undertook, she confirmed that she had paid for the dry rot 
treatment to prevent further damage. But she had not yet completed all of the work.  She 
explained that the following work was outstanding:
* Firstly all the furniture in all rooms will need to be removed and safely stored, then 
reinstalled
(dont have a cost)
* Skip for excess old floor (dont have a cost)
* floor & skirting boards in the rest of the house to be removed (dont have a cost)
* wood burning stove to be removed, stored & re-installed
* new flooring to be installed (cost of fitting with floor quote)
* new skirting to be installed (Cost of fitting with floor quote)
* new skirting supply (need to find a cost for supplying)
* walls and skirting to be made good (painting) (dont have a cost)
* Accommodation for family whilst work is being done approx 7-10 days.
Finally, Miss A explained that although she was grateful for the recommendation of £250 
compensation, she didnt feel that it adequately reflected the impact on her and her family. 
Given that she had to move out while the dry rot treatment took place and will have to move 
out again for the flooring to be laid. In addition to all of the disruption and inconvenience this 
whole event has caused. So, she requested a reconsideration of the amount. 
Allianz said that it would be best for Miss A to send it all the invoices of the works completed 
so it could consider and validate them. It also queried why the remaining work was still 
outstanding, when it had been agreed that Miss A would continue with the work while her 
complaint was being investigated. It also said that subject to the validation of the invoices, it 
would consider any reasonable associated costs in line with the policy, including alternative 
accommodation.
Finally, I asked Allianz if it would increase the amount of compensation to £450, given the 
impact on Miss A. It agreed to increase the amount of compensation to £450. As our role 
isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we cover, we look at the effect on the customer 
including their upset. Having considered this and Miss As additional comments regarding 
the impact on her and her family, I think that this amount now offered is fair and reflects the 
impact on Miss A and her family. 
I have carefully considered all the responses by both parties. Allianz was unclear as to why 
Miss A had to move out of her home in May 2021. Miss A said that this was when she had 
the dry rot treatment  so as to mitigate her losses by preventing further damage. Miss A has 
provided invoices as proof of this and I think that those invoices should be sent to Allianz for 
consideration and validation.
The work that appears to be outstanding relates to the flooring and the associated costs of 
installing the flooring at Miss As home. As this work remains outstanding and Miss A is 
currently sourcing suitable flooring, I think that Allianz ought to cover the costs of the 
purchase of the replacement flooring, as well as the associated costs of installing the 
flooring, including alternative accommodation. 
Finally, Allianz has accepted and agreed to the recommended amount of compensation of 
£450, for the trouble and upset caused. 
In the circumstances, to put matters right, I direct Allianz Insurance PLC as outlined below. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Allianz Insurance PLC to consider and validate all invoices that Miss A and reimburse the 
costs incurred by Miss A. 
Allianz Insurance PLC to pay for the outstanding flooring and associated costs including any 
alternative accommodation required, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Allianz Insurance PLC to pay Miss A compensation of £450 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Allianz Insurance PLC must pay the invoices and compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Miss A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman