DRN-3020364
The complaint
Mr G complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby), lent to him 
when it was unaffordable. He says, I had multiple payday loans at the time of applications 
many with missed payments had they done correct credit checks I should never have been 
offered the loans.
Mr G complained in September and October 2020 that he had been contacted by telephone 
about missed payments too many times and he felt harassed.
Mr G complains that Shelby registered adverse information on his credit file for the last loan 
(a missed payment) and that was incorrect. He says it has caused him stress.
What happened
Using information from Shelbys records, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowed
termPayment 
each four 
weeks
1 10/05/2019 02/08/2019 £200 3m £92.09
over 2 month gap in lending
2 18/10/2019 20/12/2019
(settled early)£350 6m £102.79
almost 6 months gap in lending
3 12/06/2020 09/01/2021 £200 6m £59.69
These paragraphs summarise what has happened so far. I do not make any findings in this 
part of the decision. I have used sub-headings for clarity.
Unaffordability complaint
In Shelbys FRL dated 20 December 2020, it did not uphold Mr Gs complaint and gave 
detailed reasons why, and it included the detailed credit search results it had carried out for 
each loan before approving it.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Shelby needed to put 
things right for Mr G in relation to loans 1 to 3.
Mr G responded to our adjudicator and made it clear he was not content as the second part 
of his complaint had been overlooked, but he did not make any comment about the outcome 
for the affordability complaint.
Harassment allegation
Shelby describes Mr Gs complaint about this as: You state we have been harassing you by 
telephone for the debt and you dont want to receive any more telephone calls
In Shelbys FRL dated December 2020, this was addressed and it said that
- the telephone contact it had had with Mr G had been within the guidelines of fair 
contact and
- as Mr G had been in a 90 day collection hold period from 1 October 2020 then he 
would not have received telephone contact during that 90 day period.
When Mr G referred his complaint to this Service, his complaint form did not refer to that 
element. But having checked with Mr G he does want this looked into. And so, we wrote to 
Shelby to say that we would be doing this and we asked for some details of the contact 
between him and Shelby. It has sent us a document setting out some copy emails between it 
and Mr G and some dates on which contact to chase for arrears was made.
I asked for copy call recordings but Shelby said: We do not hold any telephone calls that are 
older than 6 months.
Shelby has also sent to us details of an earlier complaint for background information at my 
request. That related to a complaint from July 2020 after which Shelby issued Mr G with an 
FRL dated August 2020. Im not considering the complaint points raised in that FRL.
I deal with the details of this harassment allegation later in this decision.
Credit file reporting
In February 2021, Mr G wrote to Shelby to explain that it had registered adverse credit file 
data against him for January 2021, despite the account having been repaid in full. Shelby 
issued a final response on that point in March 2021 and accepted the problem and said it 
was going to arrange for this to be corrected and it apologised for the error.
Our adjudicator issued a second view after Mr G had pointed out that this had been missed 
originally. That adjudicator could see that Shelby had admitted the mistake in relation to its 
reporting to the credit reference agency (CRA). But he felt that Shelby ought to compensate 
Mr G and recommended £30. Shelby did not respond to that second view. It has sent to us 
the account notes I referred to earlier.
Provisional decision 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 8 November 2021. Mr G responded almost immediately and said it had nothing 
else to add. Shelby has acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision yesterday and has 
sent nothing further to us. So, it seems appropriate to issue this, my final determination. 
My provisional decision findings appear on the next few pages and in smaller type size to 
differentiate it. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I deal with each part of Mr Gs complaint using the same sub-headings as in the what happened 
section of this provisional decision.
Irresponsible lending complaint
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Shelby needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have 
carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could include several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. In Mr Gs circumstances this does not apply as 
Mr G took three loans with gaps between them and so this does not indicate a pattern of lending
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without 
undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what it all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
The information Mr G gave to Shelby when he applied for the loans is briefly set out here together 
with the increases in figures Shelby made having carried out some credit checks and/or having used 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) figures and these are shown too. Use of ONS figures to increase 
expenditure figures is a reasonable approach especially if Shelby thought that the declared figures 
were a little low. And it can act as measure for the applicant as it builds into the calculations an 
additional margin.Loan Declared income Declared 
expenditureFigures Shelby 
used for incomeFigures Shelby used 
for expenditure
1 £1,300 £205 £1,250.00 £700.00
2 £1,300 £425 £1,180.00 £789.00
3 £1,300 £335 £1,180.00 £869.00
Loan 1
Considering the declared income and outgoings given to Shelby by Mr G when he applied for loan 1, 
Shelby increased these having checked some background information.
I think that the monthly repayment for loan 1 would have looked affordable. I do not think Shelby 
needed to do more. Its checks before approving the loan were proportionate considering he was a 
new customer and was asking for a relatively low sum of £200. I am planning not to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint for loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr G applied for a slightly larger loan and for it to be repaid over six months. And Mr G had not been a 
customer of Shelby for about two and a half months and so I do not think its likely that Shelby would 
have been placed on notice that Mr G was having financial issues at that point.
Just as it did for Loan 1, Shelby checked Mr Gs credit file and altered the income and expenditure 
figures.
Shelby has explained that it saw nothing on the credit search results which gave it cause for concern. 
Shelby set out those credit search results in its FRL to Mr G dated December 2020 and I have 
reviewed them. I cannot see anything in those results which would have acted as an alert to Shelby. It 
carried out checks proportionate with the loan value and term length and I do not think it needed to do 
more. I am planning not to uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
Mr G repaid loan 2 early which would likely have meant that Shelby had no reason to think that Mr G 
was having trouble repaying the loan.
The gap between loans 2 and 3 does, in my view, break the chain of lending. Mr G had taken two 
loans before that with a two and half month gap between loans 1 and 2 and nearly six months had 
passed before coming back to apply for loan 3. I think that was a large enough time period to be 
reasonable for Shelby to consider Mr G in a similar position to a new customer. 
I think it was proportionate for Shelby to rely on information Mr G gave to it when he applied for 
loan 3. But Shelby went further: it carried out additional checks, including a credit search and use of 
ONS figures when carrying out its assessment. Shelby did not find anything that alerted it to Mr G 
being unable to afford loan 3 and having reviewed the information it had I do not think that Shelby 
needed to do more. I am planning not to uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 3.
Harassment allegation
Mr G has no evidence to send us relating to this part of his complaint. He has explained that he has 
deleted all the emails from Shelby. Mr Gs complaint is about telephone calls from Shelby and I have 
no information from Mr G about when and how often he was called.
So, I asked Shelby for more information and I used what we already had on Mr Gs complaint file.For background information, I have received a copy of an FRL sent to Mr G in August 2020 which 
dealt with several issues surrounding the same loan  loan 3. I say here that I am not dealing with the 
issues raised in the FRL dated August 2020 in this complaint but it is useful to have the background.
Ive received some copy account notes which detail contact and correspondence between Mr G and 
Shelby from July 2020 through to 14 December 2020. I have seen from the account notes that around 
September 2020 there were insufficient funds for the September 2020 payment to have gone through. 
And so, Shelbys notes say that Mr G likely got arrears comms from 18 September 2020 but this set 
of notes does not specify the type of arrears comms. These account notes are reproduced here:
18/09/2020  Insufficient funds  (unsure exact type but customer would have had arrears 
comms)
19/09/2020 - 182. STL - Insufficient Funds -> 184. STL - Day 2-3 (arrears comms again)
21/09/2020 - 184. STL - Day 2-3 -> 185. STL - Day 4-5 (arrears comms)
23/09/2020 - 185. STL - Day 4-5 -> 186. STL - Day 6-7 (arrears comms)
25/09/2020 - 186. STL - Day 6-7 -> 187. STL - Day 8-9 (arrears comms)
27/09/2020 - 187. STL - Day 8-9 -> 188. STL - Day 10-15 (arrears comms)
I have read email correspondence between Mr G and Shelby on 28 September 2020 and in it Mr G 
informs Shelby he had just been made redundant and he was in a mess. He asked for the payment 
dates to be pushed back to coincide with his new job payday date.
On 1 October 2020 Mr G emailed Shelby to say - Please stop harassing me by phone.
I want everything in writing so I have a paper trail should I need to take this matter further.
The account note says that a 90 day extended forbearance period was put in place.
And then on 22 October 2020 Mr G emailed to say - I do not wish to be contacted via phone at all. 
You have already been harassing me regarding my missed payments. I have already lost my job and 
struggling mentally and financially so I do not want you compounding this.
In Shelbys FRL dated December 2020, this was addressed and it said that
-the telephone contact it had had with Mr G had been within the guidelines of fair contact and
-as Mr G had been in a 90 day collection hold period from 1 October 2020 then he would not 
have received telephone contact during that 90 day period.
Having read all that I have and considered the chronology then I think that the upset Mr G describes 
related to Shelbys contacting him for late payments from 18 September 2020.
I do accept what Shelby says when it explains that the 90 day extended forbearance period from 
1 October 2020 to 31 December 2020 would mean that Mr G was not contacted to chase him for 
payment. And I understand why Shelby did that after reading Mr Gs emails in late September 2020.
So, I think that the period of troublesome chase-up calls about which Mr G is complaining now were 
from 18 September 2020 to 1 October 2020 which is 14 days.
As I said earlier, Shelbys December 2020 FRL says that the telephone contact it had had with Mr G 
had been within the guidelines of fair contact.
Harassment is a criminal offence and not one that I am able to determine as criminal charges are 
prosecuted through the criminal courts. What I am interpreting Mr Gs complaint to mean is that he 
feels it was too much and unreasonable. Without his evidence then I have had to rely on what Shelby 
has given me. And there is a balance to be struck between a lender reasonably following up with its 
customer about missed and late payments and excessive contact such that the owner of the debt 
feels that this was too much to bear.
Using some of the Guidance in the FCA specialist Sourcebook - CONC 7.3.2 When dealing with 
customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard to its obligations under 
Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly. And PRIN 2.1.1. A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
And the older Office of Fair Trading Debt Collection Guidance (referenced in CONC 7) in 
paragraph 3.7:
Examples of unfair or improper practices are as follows: a.) contacting debtors at 
unreasonable times and/or at unreasonable intervals
Mr G is complaining about telephone calls only and so to come to a decision Id need to know the 
frequency, and times of these calls. And I do not know these details.
I make no finding on whether it amounted to harassment for the reasons I gave earlier that I am not 
able to do that. And I do not have enough evidence to reach a provisional conclusion that the 
telephone contact may have been an unreasonable  amount. So, I am planning not to uphold this part 
of Mr Gs complaint.
Credit file mistake
Mr G has explained that Shelby registered a late payment when I had in fact paid off the whole 
loan days prior. They have since removed the late payment but offered nothing more than an 
apology. Mr G said that this was in relation to his last loan (loan 3).
Mr G described the stress this had caused him because he was doing everything he could to build his 
credit back up to get a mortgage with his partner and then this incorrect credit file entry happened and 
it delayed me applying for a mortgage until the issue was resolved.
In Shelbys March 2021 final response letter (FRL) it said We have reported a missed payment for the 
month of December 2020. I can see that you settled in full on 20th December 2019.
Before writing this decision I asked Shelby to clarify if its March 2021 FRL had used the correct dates 
and years. Shelby has now clarified that it had made a mistake in the March 2021 FRL and has said 
we are referring to the loan which was settled in Jan 21.
Shelby has sent to me a screenshot from March 2021 in which it has explained to the department 
within its company which approaches CRAs to make the amendment and has said:
The customers forbearance ended on 31/12/2020 and they settled on 15/02/2021. They 
made a payment on 09/01/2021. It is being reported as a missed payment in January, could 
you please remove this?
This seems to fit with information I have from Shelbys email correspondence with Mr G and its FRL in 
December 2020. Mr G was made redundant around September 2020 and so he asked for some help. 
Shelby placed a 90 day hold on all collection activity from 1 October 2020. That hold period would 
have ended 31 December 2020.
Our adjudicator has recommended a compensation payment of £30. I think thats not quite enough. 
The delay in amending the credit file was not long and Shelby accepted straight away that it had got it 
wrong and it needed to put it right quickly. However, £30 is rather low and I plan to increase this 
to £50. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of neither party having anything further to add then I see no reason to depart from the 
provisional findings I came to earlier this month. Those provisional findings and the 
reasoning leading to them are repeated here in this final decision and become part of it.I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about irresponsible lending.
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about harassment.
I do uphold Mr Gs complaint about the credit file issue. 
Putting things right
Shelby should pay to Mr G £50 for the incorrect credit file entry in relation to the last loan.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and I direct that Shelby Finance 
Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, does as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman