DRN-2286525
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund an overpayment for goods 
and services.
What happened
Mrs S tried to make a booking for £698.76 with on online travel agency using her Capital 
One credit card. Capital One sent a text message saying it was running a security check. 
Mrs S tried again with the same card, but the payment was declined due to security checks 
and a lack of available funds.
Mrs S made a second payment for £491.92 using another payment method. She later 
discovered that the first payment had succeeded.
As the first payment was for a higher amount, Mrs S asked Capital One for a refund. She 
said shed paid twice for the same goods and services.
Capital One decided not to refund her. It said by the time shed provided details about the 
transaction, it was too late to raise a chargeback with the merchant and Capital One wasnt 
obliged to do anything more. However, it offered her £50 because it couldnt listen to the call 
she made after the first payment due to a technical fault.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair, so she asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint. He asked Mrs S for further details about the first 
payment, but she didnt provide any.  The investigator concluded that he couldnt uphold the 
complaint because there was no evidence the two payments were for the same goods and 
services.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view. She said the travel agency kept fobbing her off 
when she asked for information, but it was obvious the two payments were for the same 
goods and services because they were made the same day to the same merchant. Shes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry but I dont have good news for Mrs S. My review of the evidence has led me to the 
same overall conclusion as that reached by the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
I appreciate Mrs S believes its obvious the two payments were for the same goods or 
services. Although the prices were different, shes said the price reduced when she made 
the second payment. But theres no independent evidence the second payment was for the 
same goods or services.
If the first payment was successful, as it clearly was, then the online travel agency wouldve 
sent a confirmation email, a reference number and a travel itinerary to Mrs S this is how 
this travel agency works. And if she had cancelled it, she would have received confirmation 
of the cancellation. Our investigator asked Mrs S to provide confirmation emails and a 
reference number from the agency, but she said she no longer has this information. She said 
she sent the information to Capital One. And she said the travel agency was fobbed her off 
when she asked for it.
The investigator asked Capital One for the information, which Mrs S said she provided but all 
he received was an extract from her bank account showing the second payment.
Im surprised Mrs S no longer has any emails from the travel agency. I wouldve expected 
her to keep them given she was in dispute with Capital One for all of 2019 over this 
transaction and another unrelated transaction to the same travel agency. 
However, the fact remains that Ive no supporting evidence the two payments were for the 
same goods and services. In these circumstances, Im afraid I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to ask Capital One to refund the first payment.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mrs S wanted, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman