DRN-2546398
The complaint
 Mr P complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Black Horse.
Within a short time of getting the car, Mr P experienced the EML illuminating, an issue with 
the steering rack and an issue with the tyres wearing unevenly. Mr P returned the car to the 
supplying dealer.
The supplying dealer carried out diagnostic tests and found issues with the glow plug, the 
exhaust sensor and the steering rack. Mr P left the car with the supplying dealer and 
stopped paying his monthly payments. He complained to Black Horse and asked to reject 
the car. 
Black Horse said it would uphold the complaint on the basis that the issues were present at 
the point of supply. It said it would collect the car and reduce the balance due under the 
finance agreement to £2,159, this being the amount of negative equity Mr P had carried over 
from his previous finance agreement. Black Horse also offered to pay compensation of £200. 
It said that because Mr P had covered over 2000 miles in the car since he acquired it, it 
wasnt prepared to refund his monthly payments.
Mr P wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Black Horse should allow Mr P to reject the 
car because it wasnt of satisfactory quality. She said it was fair that Mr P should remain 
liable for the negative equity which had been carried over to the agreement and that it was 
also fait for Black Horse to retain one monthly payment for fair use. The investigator said 
Black Horse should pay compensation of £500 an remove any adverse information from Mr 
Ps credit file.
Mr P didnt agree. He didnt think the compensation was enough and said the car should 
never have been sold to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute between the parties that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Black 
Horse has agreed to accept a rejection of the car.
The nub of this complaint is about redress. Mr P is unhappy that hes been left without a car 
and that hes still expected to pay the balance of £2,159 under the agreement. Hes also 
unhappy about the amount of compensation and says this doesnt reflect the distress and 
inconvenience hes been caused.
Ive considered whether what Black Horse offered to do to resolve the complaint was fair and 
reasonable. It agreed to accept a rejection, to reduce the balance under the agreement to 
£2,159 and to pay compensation of £200. 
In relation to the reduction of Mr Ps outstanding balance to £2,159, I can see that this was 
the amount of negative equity in Mr Ps old car that he part exchanged. Ive looked at the 
Black Horse finance agreement and Im satisfied that Mr P part exchanged his old car. the 
value of the car he part exchanged was less than the finance owing on it, and I can see that 
Black Horse agreed to re-finance the negative equity of £2,159. 
I appreciate that Mr P is unhappy that hes still liable for this amount. However, when a car is 
rejected, the consumer is generally put back into the position they were in had they not 
entered into the agreement. And in this case, had Mr P not entered into the agreement, he 
would still have owed £2,159 under his previous finance agreement. Because of this, I think 
its fair that Mr P remains liable to pay this sum.
In relation to any refund of monthly payments, I can see that Mr P only made one monthly 
payment before he cancelled his direct debit. I can also see that he covered around 2000 
miles in the car since he acquired it. In these circumstances, I think its fair that Black Horse 
retain the one months payment to reflect fair use of the car.
Putting things right
 Ive thought about whats a fair amount of compensation. Mr P has explained that hes  been 
caused a lot of stress by the issues with the car. Hes provided some medical evidence to 
show the impact this has had on him. Taking everything into account, Im of the view that 
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair.
There are some other costs which Mr P incurred on the car which Black Horse has said it will 
reimburse as soon as he provides receipts.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited must: 
Allow Mr P to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr P
Reduce the outstanding balance to £2,159
Pay £500 compensation
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ps credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman