DRN-2938718
The complaint
Mr W complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) acted unfairly when 
dealing with his chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr W purchased a vacuum cleaner accessory online but found it didnt work as described by 
the merchant. Mr W attempted to resolve the issue with the merchant, but they would only 
refund him after he had returned the item at his own cost. Mr W wasnt happy with this and 
arranged a chargeback with Amex, who initiated the claim, but it was subsequently rejected 
following evidence provided by the merchant, of their returns policy.
Mr W wasnt happy with the way Amex dealt with his chargeback and feels he is entitled to a 
full refund under his consumer rights and is also looking for compensation for the time spent 
dealing with this issue.
Amex says they attempted the chargeback, but this was rejected by the merchant for what 
they considered to be valid reasons, in particular the goods hadnt been returned by Mr W. 
Amex says the chargeback scheme is a voluntary arrangement and they are bound by these 
rules and have done all they could here. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Amex had acted fairly when attempting the chargeback, which is a voluntary 
arrangement, and the dispute lies with Mr W and the merchant and not Amex.
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr W to have ordered an item that didnt 
meet his needs or was as advertised by the merchant, and then to find Amex couldnt secure 
a refund on his behalf. 
When looking into this complaint I will consider whether Amex have acted reasonably when 
they subsequently reversed the initial chargeback claim they had initiated on Mr Ws behalf. 
So, when making a full and impartial decision here, I will be looking at whether Amex have 
done what we would expect of them when initiating a chargeback and not the merits of Mr 
Ws consumer rights with the merchant, that I know he feels strongly about. 
The first thing to say here is, I have seen evidence to show Amex did attempt to obtain a 
refund for Mr W using the chargeback process.  
Its important to say that chargeback schemes are voluntary codes that card issuers and 
acquirers, like Amex, sign up to. Its fair to say chargebacks are not a right, the card issuer 
doesn't have to do a chargeback, but we think it is good practice to try if they have a good 
reason to. Additionally, when initiating a chargeback, it doesnt mean thats a guarantee that 
it will be successful as it depends on the rules under the scheme, and its not the role of this 
service to tell business like Amex how to run the scheme, more that they act fairly when 
doing so.
Amex have provided this service with details of the actions they took when completing the 
chargeback process. I have seen evidence to show they have obtained and considered 
information provided by both parties and I am satisfied they have attempted to secure a 
refund for Mr W. Following a challenge by the merchant and in line with their scheme rules, 
as described by the investigator, Amex reversed the chargeback from Mr Ws credit card 
account. Amex says they have acted fairly here as the goods, even by Mr Ws own 
admission, havent been returned following a dispute with the merchant over whos 
responsible for the return postage costs.  
So, while Mr W feels he has acted reasonably and in line with his consumer rights with the 
merchant over this matter, I am satisfied this is between him and the merchant and not 
Amex. My role is to consider if Amex fairly carried out the chargeback process, as we would 
expect to see and I am satisfied they have here, for the reasons I have already given. 
Mr W is of course free to pursue the matter with the merchant, but thats not something for 
this service to consider. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Amex here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman