DRN-2236499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) didnt let 
them know that it wasnt offering them renewal of their home insurance policy. This led to a 
claim on their policy being turned down.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had home insurance with LV. Their policy was due to renew in January 2019. 
They called LV a few months later to make a claim on their policy. They learned at that point 
that LV had decided against offering them renewal terms and that they didnt have any 
insurance in place. They made a complaint because they said LV hadnt let them know it 
wasnt prepared to offer them a new policy.
LV said itd sent Mr and Mrs S a letter in December 2018 which explained that it wasnt 
offering them a policy at renewal. It also said that as Mr and Mrs S hadnt received any 
documentation to confirm the policy had renewed and they hadnt paid any premiums, they 
shouldve been aware that they didnt have any cover in place. Mr and Mrs S asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think LVs records showed that its letter had been sent to Mr and Mrs 
S. So he recommended that it should pay them £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience learning theyd had no insurance in place had caused them. He also thought 
that if Mr and Mrs S had known LV hadnt renewed their policy, theyd have arranged 
alternative cover. And so theyd have been able to make a claim on their policy. He thought 
LV should consider Mr and Mrs S claim for a collapsed wall.
LV agreed to pay Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation for the collapsed wall. It said that before 
it could consider a claim for the backdated wall, Mr and Mrs S would need to pay the 
appropriate premium for the 2019 policy year  which it calculated was around £1950. But it 
explained that based on the information it had about the claim, it didnt think it would be 
covered. The investigator thought this offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They felt LVs offer was inadequate and insulting. It didnt take into 
account their time and expense, or the stress theyve suffered as a result of this situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think LVs offer is fair. Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr and Mrs S policy say that it reserves the right not to invite renewal. So I 
think LV was entitled to decide not to offer Mr and Mrs S a new policy at renewal. But it did 
need to let them know about its decision, so Mr and Mrs S were given a fair opportunity to 
find a new insurer and arrange alternative cover.
LV maintains that it did send Mr and Mrs S notice that it wasnt offering them a policy at 
renewal. It said the fact its records dont reflect this are a known glitch. But it accepts it cant 
show, on balance, that its most likely the letter was sent. So LV agreed to pay Mr and Mrs S 
£200 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset they suffered when they learned they 
hadnt had insurance cover in place for the 2019 policy year.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S dont feel this offer is enough to recognise their time, trouble and 
expense. Ive thought about this. I dont doubt how upsetting it mustve been when they 
came to make a claim and found out that they werent covered. But it seems they were able 
to find alternative insurance and it seems LV responded to their complaint promptly. So I 
think £200 is fair compensation to recognise the upset and inconvenience they suffered. LV 
agreed to pay this compensation separately. So it should now pay this amount if it hasnt 
already done so.
As LV hadnt renewed Mr and Mrs S policy, it meant they didnt have any cover in place 
when they wanted to make a claim for a collapsed wall. LV has now said that if Mr and S pay 
the premium it wouldve charged them for cover in the 2019 policy year, its prepared to 
consider their claim. I think this is a reasonable and appropriate response from LV. I say this 
because my role in resolving complaints is to consider what position Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
been in if LV hadnt made an error.
If Mr and Mrs S had remained with LV, their contract wouldve required them to pay it a 
premium in order to be covered. LV says this premium wouldve been around £1950 for the 
2019 policy year. It wouldve been open to Mr and Mrs S to decide at renewal if they wanted 
to pay the premium or look elsewhere for alternative cover. But LV wouldve had no liability 
to consider or pay any claims unless the premiums were paid. So as Mr and Mrs S havent 
yet paid any premium for the 2019 policy year, LV currently has no liability to consider their 
claim. 
So I think its fair for LV to require Mr and Mrs S to pay a backdated premium for the 2019 
policy before it agrees to consider their claim. Its open to Mr and Mrs S to get in touch with 
LV if they wish to do so. LV has told us that based on what it knows so far about the claim, it 
doesnt think it would be successful. Should Mr and Mrs S go ahead with paying the 
backdated premium and are unhappy with LVs ultimate decision on their claim, theyd be 
entitled to make a new complaint about that issue.
Overall, based on all Ive seen, I think LVs offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that LVs offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company to:
- Pay Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation if it hasnt already done so; and
- Reconsider Mr and Mrs S claim for their collapsed wall once Mr and Mrs S have paid 
the premium due for the 2019 policy year. If Mr and Mrs S choose not to pay this 
premium, LV doesnt need to reconsider their claim. 
-
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman