DRN-2813104
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) provided to him when 
he called them out to his vehicle under his roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
On 2 November 2020 Mr H unfortunately suffered a puncture on one of the wheels of his 
car. Mr H understood the engineer would attempt to repair the wheel, rather than just 
replacing it with the spare wheel. But, when the engineer attended to Mr Hs car, he didnt 
have the kit to attempt a repair  so just replaced the wheel. Mr H complained about this.
IPA said having listened to the original call the agent Mr H spoke to told him a repair cant 
generally be made to the rear wheel which is what had been punctured on Mr Hs car. IPA 
said the agent told Mr H theyd request a repair, but if theres nothing they can do then theyll 
just change the wheel. Because of that, they didnt think the agent had misled Mr H, so didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr H didnt accept this, so asked us to look into things, saying he had cover on his policy for 
tyre repairs and wanted compensation for distress and inconvenience.
One of our investigators did so. He said he didnt think IPA had misled him, and that the 
policy terms said they could fix or replace a wheel. So, he didnt ask IPA to compensate 
Mr H as hed asked. 
Mr H didnt agree with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Id only require IPA to pay compensation to Mr H if I thought 
theyd done something wrong.
To decide that, Ive firstly looked at the relevant policy terms that applied to Mr Hs situation. 
The relevant elements of the terms say:
There are benefits for punctures that require assistance to fix or replace a wheel
They wont pay for the costs of getting a spare wheel or tyre for a roadside repair if 
the vehicle doesnt have one
Ive also listened to the phone call Mr H had on 2 November 2020. In it, the agent hes 
speaking to says theyll try and get someone to come out to him. She explains if they can 
repair the wheel then they will, but it depends on the damage. She also explains if for any 
reason the wheel cant be repaired then theyll replace it with the spare he told them he had.
I dont think on the call its clear the technician may attend without a puncture repair kit. But I 
do think its clear no guarantee was made to repair the wheel.
This appears to be in line with the policy terms, where they say theyll fix or replace a wheel.
And it also means I dont think IPA have misled Mr H as hes suggested. IPA told him its 
possible they wont be able to repair his tyre and explained if they cant then the spare wheel 
would be installed instead. While I think it would have been helpful if theyd been clearer that 
a technician may not come out with a tyre repair kit, I also cant say they definitely could 
have repaired Mr Hs tyre. So, I dont think IPA have acted unfairly by replacing his wheel so 
he can drive home himself.
I can see from IPAs notes theyve recorded Mr H saying he didnt want to drive home on 
that wheel because it wasnt very good. I can understand that would have been a concern, 
but I cant say thats IPAs fault.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman