DRN-2075845
The complaint
Mrs R says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in connection with a credit card that she took out some time 
between 1998 and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the 
account at the same time as Mrs R applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R applied for her card some time between 1998 and 2000 and its possible that 
she bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its 
most likely Mrs R bought the PPI at the same time as applying for her credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mrs R aware the PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales processes between 
1998 and 2000, Mrs R wouldve had to actively select the PPI during the credit card 
application process. So I think she wouldve known she had a choice about buying the 
PPI. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs R, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs R says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her 
employer benefits, and would do so, it seems, for longer. And the PPI wouldve 
allowed Mrs R to use her employer benefits to cover other expenses. So I think Mrs 
R wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs R would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman