DRN-2727526
The complaint
 Mrs B complains about Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith). Her complaint is about Zeniths 
decision to avoid her motor insurance policy.
What happened
 Mrs B had a motor insurance policy with Zenith which was subject to automatic renewal. 
Mrs B originally took out the policy in July 2017 and renewed the policy in July 2018 with no 
changes. Mrs Bs husband was a named driver on the policy and had an accident in April 
2019 when he was driving the insured vehicle and was hit from behind by a third party. Mrs 
B made a claim under her policy.  At the same time Mrs B informed Zenith that  due to an 
oversight on her part  she had not told them of a change in occupation by her husband in 
January 2018.
 
Zenith said that shed failed to notify them of a change of occupation by her husband. It 
further stated that his new occupation was a decline under the terms that they would offer 
insurance. That is, had Zenith known of the new occupation they would not have offered that 
element of cover under their underwriting guidelines. Zenith considered this to be a 
misrepresentation that entitled it to avoid her policy from the date of its inception, meaning 
that it was considered never to have been in place. Zenith therefore rejected her claim in 
August 2019.
 
They also refused to refund the cost of the premiums that Mrs B had paid for the policy, on 
the grounds that they were faced with a claim for costs from the third party arising from the 
accident.
Mrs B complained to Zenith about their decision to avoid her policy. She said that it had not 
occurred to her that she needed to tell Zenith of the change of occupation and that she did 
not check that part of the renewal information in July 2018. Mrs B also stated that it had 
been a stressful time for her and her family at the time of her husbands change of 
occupation (following redundancy) as well as at the time of the renewal of her policy in July 
2018 (when she was at risk of redundancy). Zenith considered her complaint but rejected it 
in October 2019, on the basis that she had misrepresented the occupation of her husband at 
the time the policy was renewed.
Unhappy at Zeniths rejection of her complaint, Mrs B complained to this service in April 
2020. The main part of her complaint was that Zenith had unfairly avoided her policy and 
that she was being heavily penalised due to a genuine oversight at a time of stress, an 
oversight that she had drawn to Zeniths notice when she made her claim. Given the impact 
of the avoidance on her ability to obtain insurance, she requested that the avoidance be 
corrected so that her ability to obtain future insurance was not adversely affected.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint and concluded that Zenith 
hadnt acted fairly in avoiding the policy in its entirety. The investigator concluded that had 
Zenith been made aware of the change of occupation of Mrs Bs husband, they wouldnt 
have offered the policy under the same terms at the renewal of the policy in July 2018, as 
Mrs Bs husband would not have been included as a named driver. But the investigator 
concluded that Zenith could have considered the policy to still cover only Mrs B as the 
policyholder and assessed the claim under the provisions of the Road Traffic Act (RTA). In 
that situation they could have sought to recover any costs payable to the third party from Mrs 
Bs husband. To put things right the investigator concluded that Zenith should amend its 
records and any central databases to remove record of the avoidance. Because of the 
impact of the avoidance on Mrs B in terms of stress and being unable to obtain insurance 
following the avoidance, the investigator thought that Zenith should also pay Mrs B £300 in 
compensation.
Zenith did not accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I also want to reassure Mrs B I have considered what she has told us about her stressful 
circumstances at the time of her husbands change of occupation in January 2018 and 
subsequently at the date of the renewal of her policy in July 2018. Ive considered how it 
may have impacted her not notifying Zenith of the change prior to the accident. Ive also 
noted that she voluntarily disclosed the change.
  
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zenith thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care when she failed to notify them of her 
husbands change of occupation, either at the time of the change, or at the subsequent 
renewal or before the accident. Ive considered the circumstances and evidence relating to 
Mrs B not notifying her husbands change of occupation. I think several points are relevant. 
First, Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy, specifically those that relate 
to information provided by the policyholder. The Statement of Insurance issued at the time of 
the renewal of the policy in July 2018 states:
Important: Please read the following information very carefully. Please advise us 
immediatelyshould any of the information be incorrect or missingFailure to disclose 
correct and complete information to the best of your knowledge and belief may result in 
increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or 
being made null & void and treated as if it never existed.
Ive noted that the Statement of Insurance then goes on to record the occupation of Mrs Bs 
husband as his former occupation.From the evidence Ive seen Its clear that Mrs Bs husband was employed in his new 
occupation at the time that Mrs B renewed her policy. Its also clear from the extract of the 
Statement of Insurance above that Mrs B should have checked the information and told 
Zenith of her husbands change of occupation. Ive considered Mrs Bs stressful 
circumstances at the time and what she has told us about not realising that she had to tell 
Zenith about the change. But Ive concluded that Mrs B didnt take reasonable care and 
misrepresented the circumstances when renewing the policy.
 
Ive seen the evidence that Zenith would not, under its own underwriting guidelines, have 
offered Mrs B insurance with her husband as a named driver on the policy had it known of 
his new occupation. That means Im satisfied Mrs Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one.
 
From their notes supporting the decision to avoid the policy, its clear Zenith classified Mrs 
Bs misrepresentation as careless. I agree that Mrs Bs misrepresentation was careless 
because the evidence indicates that Mrs B made a genuine oversight, together with the fact 
that she volunteered the information to Zenith.
 
As Im satisfied Mrs Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Zenith can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that when theres a 
careless misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have 
offered the cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the relevant period of 
the cover.
 
From the evidence Ive seen, had Zenith been informed of Mrs Bs husbands change of 
occupation then it would not have accepted his being included as a named driver on the 
policy. But Mrs B would have been able to take out the policy without his being included as a 
named driver. In other words, Zenith would have accepted the risk of insuring Mrs B without 
her husband on the policy.
 
In this situation CIDRA says that Zenith should treat the policy as if it had been renewed on 
terms that were acceptable. That is, what it would have done had the qualifying 
misrepresentation not been made. So, Zenith should treat the policy as if it had been 
provided to Mrs B without her husband as a named driver.
 
Zeniths view is that had the misrepresentation not occurred, the accident would likely have 
not occurred as Mrs Bs husband would not have been a named driver. Zenith also maintain 
that as Mrs Bs husband was the driver at the time of the accident then it was not a remedy 
to remove him from the policy. Therefore its decision to avoid the whole policy was fair. Ive 
considered these points carefully, but I dont agree.
 
Removing Mrs Bs husband from the policy would mean that he was an uninsured driver for 
the purposes of any claim. In these circumstances Zenith can fairly decline Mrs Bs claim for 
the accident, and I would not require Zenith to pay for any damage to her vehicle or other 
costs incurred by Mrs B, which is the position.
 
As the accident involved a collision with a third party, then in these circumstances Zenith 
would still be the insurer under the provisions of the RTA and therefore subject to claims for 
losses from the third party (or their insurer). Ive noted that Zenith initially said that it would 
retain Mrs Bs premiums against the accident claim in which her husband was the driver. 
This is allowed by CIDRA and would have been fair in the circumstances.
 
However, Ive also noted that subsequent to their decision to avoid the policy Zenith have 
closed their case file on the claim with no payments to third parties and indicated that they would be prepared to return the premiums to Mrs B. Even if a claim was subsequently 
received from the third party or their insurer, under RTA provisions Zenith would be entitled 
to seek recovery of any costs arising from such a claim from Mrs Bs husband (as the driver 
of the vehicle at the time of the accident) and/or Mrs B.
Ive therefore concluded that Zenith acted unfairly in avoiding Mrs Bs policy completely. 
Zenith should put Mrs B in the position shed have been in if they hadnt avoided the policy. 
This means they should treat her policy as if it had been provided to Mrs B without her 
husband as a named driver from the date of the renewal in July 2018. While Zenith have 
indicated that they would be prepared to return Mrs Bs premiums, if they treat the policy as 
if it had been provided to Mrs B without her husband as a named driver then the premiums 
due in respect of that amended policy would be due from Mrs B. Zenith should also remove 
all records of the policy avoidance and write to Mrs B stating that the policy was avoided in 
error.
Ive also considered the question of compensation. Mrs B has told us of the impact that the 
avoidance has had. So, she hasnt been able to obtain insurance for her vehicle and now 
she no longer has the vehicle. From what she has told us this has also had a significant 
impact on her and her family. Our investigator recommended that Zenith should compensate 
Mrs B with £300 for the inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair and reasonable sum. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I require Zenith 
Insurance plc to:
Treat Mrs Bs policy as if it had been provided to Mrs B without her husband as a 
named driver from the date of its renewal in July 2018.
Remove all records of Mrs Bs policy avoidance and provide Mrs B with a letter 
stating that her policy was avoided in error.
Pay Mrs B £300 in compensation or the upset and inconvenience the avoided policy 
has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman