DRN-3089950
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LGI) and the quality of the 
repairs they arranged following a water leak in her property.
What happened
On 7 April 2021, Mrs G contacted LGI to make a claim on her home insurance policy. She 
explained her water tank had leaked, which had caused damage to the ceiling and walls of 
her dining room. Another insurer was dealing with the repairs to the water tank but she 
wanted LGI to arrange for repairs to the damage in her dining room.
LGI arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage and a schedule of works were agreed. 
This work took place in June by a third-party contractor arranged by LGI, who Ill refer to as 
T. Mrs G was originally unhappy that T had needed to drill as this used electricity shed 
need to pay. LGI agreed to pay Mrs £15 to cover the costs of this.
But after the works were completed, Mrs G raised a further complaint with LGI. Mrs G was 
unhappy about the quality of the repairs, saying the wallpaper had bubbled and hadnt been 
hung to the edge of the ceiling. She also complained about the mess left by T after they 
completed the work, saying her surfaces and floor had been left dirty. Mrs G explained she 
didnt have the energy to clean this mess, so she wanted LGI to arrange for her dining room 
to be cleaned.
LGI responded and didnt agree. Theyd seen the photos provided by T after the work had 
been completed and thought itd had been done to a reasonable standard. So, they didnt 
think any further works were needed. And they were satisfied T had left Mrs Gs dining room 
in a reasonable state, as T had already returned to the property to complete a second clean. 
So, LGI didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs G remained unhappy with this 
response so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised T was likely 
to have created some mess as the walls needed to be sanded due to the quality of the 
plaster. But she was satisfied T tried to mitigate this by using bags to trap most of the dust. 
And she was satisfied T had laid floor and surface coverings while working as the contents 
of the room hadnt been moved. And from the photos shed seen, she thought the room had 
been left in a reasonable state.
She also explained shed seen pictures of the wallpapering and saw no evidence of 
bubbling. She thought the wallpapering and ceiling had been completed to a reasonable 
standard, placing Mrs G back in the position she wouldve been in before the damage 
occurred. So, because of the above, she didnt think Mrs G needed to do anything more.
Mrs G didnt agree as she maintained her belief the wallpapering had bubbled. She asked if 
an Ombudsman could attend her property to view this in person but we explained this wasnt 
something our service was able to arrange. As Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs G. I appreciate it 
wouldve been stressful and upsetting for Mrs G when she realised her water tank was 
leaking. And I recognise Mrs G had her home insurance with LGI in place to help make 
situations like this easier and less financially impactful. So, when the repair work T 
completed wasnt up to the standard Mrs G expected, I can understand why Mrs G would 
hold LGI responsible for this and expect it to be rectified.
But for me to say that LGI have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied from the 
evidence available to me that the repair work T completed, and the state in which Mrs Gs 
home was left, wasnt of a reasonable standard. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Ive first thought about the quality of the work T completed. As T were acting on behalf of 
LGI, any work they completed is the responsibility of LGI. Mrs G doesnt think the wallpaper 
was hung correctly and that its started to bubble. 
Ive seen the photos Mrs G provided to show this. And Ive also seen the photos T took after 
they completed the work. And in both sets of photos, Im unable to see any evidence of 
bubbling in the wallpaper. And I also cant see any evidence to show that the wallpaper was 
hung incorrectly in any noticeable way. So, I dont think I can fairly say the work T completed 
wasnt to a reasonable standard. But I recognise one persons opinion of a reasonable 
standard can differ to another. So, I recognise Mrs G might not agree with this decision.
But Its important to note Mrs Gs insurance policy isnt intended to repair damage to a better 
standard than what was there previously. Instead, the policy is intended to place Mrs G back 
in the position she was before the damage occurred. Ive compared the standard of 
wallpapering present in Mrs Gs dining room before T completed the work, taking into 
consideration the damage present, to the new wallpapering T completed. And having done 
so, Im satisfied its of a similar standard. So, I think LGI have acted in line with the terms of 
the policy Mrs G held and so, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of 
the complaint.
Ive then thought about Mrs Gs complaint regarding the state T left her dining after they 
completed the work. Ive no doubt mess was created when completing the work, as T 
needed to sand the walls before applying the wallpaper. Even though T attached bags to 
their sanders, I think its likely dust was still created and present in the room. And T also 
needed to stain block and paint the ceiling, which I think is also likely to have created a 
mess.
But T have confirmed Mrs Gs dining room had all of its contents in the room when they 
arrive to repair the damage. So, they were forced to work around this. Because of this, I 
think it wouldve made the job more difficult and in turn, more mess is likely to have been 
created. T have confirmed they covered Mrs Gs surfaces and floors when completing the 
work and I think its likely this is the case to protect Mrs Gs contents. And theyve confirmed 
they hoovered and mopped Mrs Gs floor, as well as wiping down the surfaces before leaving. And its not disputed they returned to Mrs Gs property a second time to complete a 
second clean.
Ive seen photos of Mrs Gs dining room after this. And from what I can see, Mrs Gs dining 
room was cleaned to a reasonable standard. I can see no visible dirt on the floors or 
surfaces that would suggest to me T left Mrs Gs property without cleaning it appropriately. 
And I think T acted fairly by returned when Mrs G first raised her concerns. So, I dont think I 
can say T, acting on behalf of LGI, acted unfairly for this aspect of the complaint. And 
because of this, I dont think LGI need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs G was hoping for. And as Ive explained above, I 
recognise her definition of reasonable may differ, causing her to remain unhappy. But I hope 
my decision explains why I think LGI have acted fairly, in line the policy Mrs G held, on this 
occasion and brings some closure to Mrs G.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman