DRN-3760672
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (SB) rejected their claim under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare purchase. Mr and 
Mrs U are represented by a professional representative (PR).
What happened
In April 2006 Mr and Mrs U purchased a trial timeshare product from a company I will call C 
and paid £3,495. In August 2006 they purchased full membership for a net cost of £ 6,906 
and in October 2006 they acquired more points at a cost of £7,999. Each was funded by a 
loan from a lender I will call G which was subsequently repaid by the next loan. In 2016 SB 
acquired the third loan from G and I gather it was repaid in April 2017. A further purchase 
was made in April 2015, but this was funded by a loan from another provider. That means I 
can only consider the complaint against SB for the October loan which it acquired from G.
The PR made an initial claim against G for all the loans, but it then raised complaint against 
SB in August 2021 for the October loan.
The PR raised a number of reasons why it considered their clients claim succeeded. In short 
it said they had been pressurised and misled by Cs sales representatives. It said that the 
management charges were misrepresented and the mechanism for leaving the membership 
was not made clear. It also said the sale fell foul of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 ("UTCCR"). SB said the claim had been made out of time and it said it did 
not consider there had been an unfair relationship between G and Mr and Mrs U..
The PR on behalf of Mr and Mrs U brought a complaint to this service. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the claim had been 
made out of time apart from the claim under s 140A. However, he didnt consider there was 
evidence of an unfair relationship. The PR didnt agree and submitted a generic response 
from legal counsel which didnt address the issue of the application of the Limitation Act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr and Mrs U and C are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent for G, 
subsequently SB. This includes any representations made by C and any other dealings 
between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
Time Limits 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. Mr and Mrs U 
have set out the various claims made to them which led them to agree to buy the product. 
They were all made on or before October 2006, so that is the latest date on which any cause 
of action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which the PR has raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather than 
being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be alleged 
occurred many years ago.
I have seen no evidence of any claim being made until Mr and Mrs U contacted SB via the 
PR in August 2021, some 15 years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim was made outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in 
my view that it was reasonable for SB to decline to consider the misrepresentation and 
breach of contract claims under section 75 and the claims under section 56.
Section 140A and 140B claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Under the Limitation Act 2010 the usual time limit for bringing a claim of this nature is six 
years from the date on which the credit relationship ended. The loan was settled in April 
2017 and the claim to SB was made in August 2021 so it falls within the six-year limit. That 
means I have to consider if the relationship was unfair to Mr and Mrs U.
Unfair Terms
The PR says that Mr Mrs U have a claim against SB as the terms were unfair. It has not 
expanded on what it considers was unfair except that it considers the duration and the 
obligation to pay management charges to have been unfair. Such matters are covered by under Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR). A term which is unfair 
within the meaning of UTCCR is not enforceable. 
For example, the PR may say that the interest rate under the loan agreement was so high as 
to be unfair within that definition. Again, however, any such complaint would need to be 
brought within six years of the agreement, if this service is to have power to consider it  or, 
if later, withing three years of the date on which Mr and Mrs U knew or ought to have known 
they had cause for complaint. They knew what the interest rate was when they agreed to the 
loans in 2006. I do not believe therefore that I have any power to consider this part of this 
complaint.
I would observe in any event that UTCCR excludes from any assessment of fairness any 
term which relates to the price of goods or services. The interest rate in a loan agreement is 
in my view part of the price of the loan. So, even if I were to take a different view of the time 
limit, I do not believe I could properly uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Us complaint.
As for the duration of the agreement the only one I am considering is that taken out in 
October 2006 for the purchase of additional points. It would appear that the agreement 
simply allowed for the allocation of 750 points each year and I have seen no reference to 
there being any charges relating to those points. As such I can see no basis on which a 
court might conclude that there was unfairness.
Conclusion
Regardless of the merit of the complaint I cannot say that it was made in time and so I 
cannot conclude that SB did anything wrong in not accepting the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman