DRN-3210526
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs K complain about poor service from an appointed representative of Mortgage 
Advice Bureau Limited. They say as a result they lost the opportunity to buy the home they 
wanted. Mr N and Mrs K ask for a formal apology and investigation, and compensation for 
the loss of the home they wanted and time making the complaint. 
What happened
Mr N and Mrs K wanted to buy a shared ownership property. Scheme rules required them to 
get confirmation from a mortgage intermediary that they qualified for the shared ownership 
scheme and that the mortgage was affordable. Mr N and Mrs K contacted an appointed 
representative of MAB in late July 2020 for this. They say the developer of the property they 
wanted gave them its contact details.
A fact find was carried out in early August. MAB said the mortgage was only affordable 
based on two incomes. It said not all lenders would offer a mortgage due to the amount of 
time Mrs K had been living in the United Kingdom and that she didnt have leave to remain. It 
identified a lender that it said would be prepared to lend to them and started an application 
on their behalf. MAB asked for a letter from Mrs Ks employer confirming details relating to 
her maternity leave and salary. MAB says this wasnt provided in an acceptable form until 
September. By this time the property Mr N and Mrs K had wanted had been allocated to 
another buyer. MABs notes say Mr N and Mrs K then decided not to go ahead with a 
different property in the development.
Mr N says MAB unfairly told the developer that two lenders wouldnt offer a mortgage to 
them despite these lenders issuing an agreement in principle. He said it was for the lenders 
to make that decision, not MAB. Mr N also said this wasnt MABs role which was only to 
assess whether they qualified for the shared ownership scheme. 
Mr N says MAB didnt make clear what was needed and this caused delays. He says it was 
unreasonable for MAB to ask for a signed copy of a letter from Mrs Ks employer, despite 
everything being sent electronically during the pandemic. He says this caused delays that 
meant the property they wanted was no longer available. 
Our investigator didnt think MAB had been unfair. He said it was the lender that asked for 
the employers maternity leave letter. 
Mr N and Mrs K didnt agree. Mr N said MABs role was to assess if they were eligible for the 
shared ownership scheme, not to decide that lenders wouldnt offer them a loan. Mr N said 
one of the lenders had issued them with an agreement in principle and key facts illustration 
and it was wrong for MAB to say the lender wouldnt offer a mortgage. Mr N said MAB 
should have made more effort to persuade the lender to accept the letter they provided, 
given most letters were sent electronically during the pandemic. He said MAB didnt treat 
them fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N and Mrs Ks situation wasnt straightforward. Both of their incomes were needed to 
meet affordability criteria. Mrs K had moved to the United Kingdom relatively recently and 
didnt have indefinite leave to remain. 
MAB says there was only one lender that would offer a mortgage to Mr N and Mrs K, 
because of their situation. Mr N says this was unfair and incorrect.
First, Mr N says it wasnt part of MABs role to report that lenders wouldnt offer a mortgage. 
Ive looked at the government guidelines for the shared ownership scheme and this says the 
mortgage advisor should also carry out detailed assessments taking into account any 
relevant mortgage lending criteria to ultimately determine the maximum affordable share the 
applicant(s) can purchase. I think it was fair and reasonable for MAB to consider whether 
Mr N and Mrs K would meet lenders criteria. 
Second, Mr N says they received an agreement in principle from two other lenders after 
discussion with another mortgage advisor. An agreement in principle isnt an offer to lend. 
Mr N and Mrs K didnt receive a mortgage offer from these lenders. I dont have evidence 
that either of these two other lenders would have offered a mortgage to Mr N and Mrs K. 
While Mr N provided a mortgage offer issued in early 2021 this is from the same lender that 
MAB said would be prepared to lend to them. 
During the fact find, Mr N and Mrs K told MAB about Mrs Ks maternity leave. MAB said they 
needed to collect information about Mrs Ks income, return to work plan and child care costs 
as lenders would likely ask for this. Following the fact find, MAB asked the lender how this 
would affect its assessment of Mrs Ks income and what information and documents it would 
need. 
MAB told Mr N the lender would contact Mrs Ks employer for a letter stating the date shed 
return and her income and hours, and Mrs K should speak to her employer about this. MAB 
also said they needed evidence of additional savings to cover their outgoings during Mrs Ks 
maternity leave. MAB asked Mr N for this on 11 August. It sent reminders. MAB contacted 
Mr N again in late August as the letter provided didnt meet the lenders requirements. Mr N 
didnt think the requests were reasonable. But if this was what the lender had asked for, I 
think it was fair for MAB to ask Mr N and Mrs K for it. 
MABs records say that it didnt receive the employers letter in an acceptable form and 
evidence of savings to cover payments during Mrs Ks maternity leave until September 2020. 
By this time the developer had allocated the property Mr N and Mrs K wanted to another 
buyer.
I understand Mr N and Mrs Ks frustration that they werent able to secure the property they 
wanted. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that this was due 
to errors by MAB. I think it was reasonable for MAB to consider which mortgage lenders 
would offer a mortgage to Mr N and Mrs K given their circumstances. MAB identified a 
lender that it thought would lend to Mr N and Mrs K and started the application process on 
their behalf. I think it was reasonable for MAB to ask for documents as evidence of Mr N and 
Mrs Ks income  especially if they were requested by the lender. Based on the available 
evidence, I dont think MAB was responsible for any unreasonable delays. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman