DRN-1732127
 
The complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms D acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Ms D responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. She would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that all the damage that VWFS are 
making refurbishment charges for is beyond what would be considered fair wear and 
tear under the BVRLA guidance. I wont repeat what the investigator has said but I do 
think her findings are an accurate reflection of what the BVRLA guidance says and 
that her view on the extent of the damage, and applicability of the charges, is correct. 
That would include the damage to the front door that was initially unclear.
The contract doesnt allow for refurbishment charges to be reduced if the vehicle is 
returned with a lower mileage than is allowable under the agreement. So, I dont think 
VWFS have been wrong not to take this into account and I am not persuaded the 
charges they are now asking Ms D to pay are unreasonable.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges VWFS have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman