DRN-3031596
The complaint
Mr G complains that, in 2006, HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a packaged bank account 
(PBA).  Mr G says that the change, from his fee-free account into a PBA, was imposed on 
him; and that HSBC didnt make him aware he had a choice about it. 
What happened
Mr G had had a fee-free bank account with HSBC since 2000. In 2006 the account was 
changed into an Advance account. In 2006, this cost £9.95 each month. It came with free 
family travel insurance covering the world and the UK. Other benefits included preferential 
overdraft and credit card rates, and preferential rates on savings.
HSBC doesnt now have copies of forms and letters from 2006.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr G didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G says he wouldnt have agreed to the PBA, if hed known it was optional. He didnt 
travel abroad and, around that time, hed suffered a very bad personal trauma and so 
wouldnt have been actively changing his bank account. 
The main problem is that this all happened about 15 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember everything that happened so long ago. So it may 
not be fair for me to rely just on what they now remember as happening. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mr Gs complaint. It wouldnt 
be fair to make HSBC prove it didnt act wrongly  its a long-standing principle that 
someone doesnt usually have to prove they are innocent. Instead, fairly, I would need 
reasonable evidence to show that HSBC probably did do something wrong. And I cant 
say that there is that kind of evidence. 
From what we know of HSBCs sales processes at the time, it wouldnt have 
recommended the PBA  that is, in the sense of saying it had assessed Mr Gs personal 
circumstances and was telling him this was a good fit. Instead, it would normally have 
drawn Mr Gs attention to the PBA and pointed out its benefits, but left if for him to decide 
whether it was worth the cost. I cant know what exact information HSBC gave Mr G, but 
its a fairly straightforward account and I think it likely the main costs and benefits would 
have been set out. 
There may have been reasons Mr G, at the time, thought it might be worth taking, even if 
he doesnt now remember it  he might have been thinking of travelling, or of making use 
of an overdraft or credit card. But this is just speculation. I accept that he is now sure he 
wouldnt have taken the PBA, and says hed have had little use for it over later years. But I 
cant say that the evidence is so strong that he clearly wouldnt have willingly agreed to it. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant say its likely HSBC mis-sold the PBA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman