DRN-3934598
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt remove a record of 
a default on his credit file when it said it would.
What happened
Due to ill health Mr T was unable to meet the monthly payments due to his credit card. Mr T 
says Barclaycard didnt contact him about his arrears or tell him that it intended to default the 
account. 
Mr T says he first learnt about the default when a third-party debt collection firm contacted 
him, and he checked his credit file. Mr T contacted Barclaycard and he says he was told that 
the default on his credit file would be removed. But on checking his credit file again, Mr T 
says the default is still showing.
Barclaycard says the last monthly contractual payment received to Mr Ts account was in 
December 2020. It said that in addition to providing regular statements of account, it also 
wrote to Mr T  at the address held on its records, about the arrears on the account. This 
included a default notice dated 3 July 2021. As Mr T didnt make any further payments to his 
account, Barclaycard defaulted the account and sold the debt to a third-party debt collection 
firm.
Barclaycard didnt agree that it had told Mr T the default would be removed from his credit 
file. Rather, it says it explained to Mr T that it had updated his credit file to show the debt had 
been sold to a third-party and that the third-party would take ownership of reporting the 
default on his credit file.  
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into, but she 
didnt uphold it. She found that Mr T hadnt maintained his contractual payments and 
Barclaycard had defaulted his account correctly. Mr T didnt accept this outcome. He said he 
didnt receive any correspondence from Barclaycard about his account being defaulted and 
that he had a call recording from Barclaycard confirming that the default would be removed.
The investigator listened to the call recording. But she didnt agree that Barclaycard said it 
would remove the remove the default from Mr Ts credit file. She said Barclaycard had told 
Mr T that the default will be closed by it and taken over by the third-party debt collection firm. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators findings, so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I can see Mr T 
feels very strongly about this matter, so I appreciate he will be disappointed with the 
outcome I have reached. So, I will explain why.
As I see it, there are two parts to the crux of Mr Ts complaint. Firstly, he didnt receive any 
correspondence from Barclaycard telling him it intended to default his account. And, 
secondly, that he was later told by Barclaycard that the record of the default recorded on his 
credit file would be removed. I will deal with each issue in turn.
Did Barclaycard act fairly when it defaulted Mr Ts account
Its not in dispute that Mr T was unable to maintain his payments. I appreciate that this was 
because of ill health, but Ive not seen anything that would make me think that Mr T 
contacted Barclaycard to seek support due to being in financial difficulty. 
As such, I find that it wasnt unreasonable for Barclaycard to treat Mr Ts account as being in 
arrears. The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account explain that when payments are missed 
your records with credit reference agencies may be affected, meaning it may be harder or 
more expensive for you to borrow in the future. And I think its most likely that Mr T would 
have agreed to these terms when he opened his account. 
Furthermore, Ive also seen that Barclaycard sent statements to Mr T each month in the first 
half of 2021. These statements are addressed to the same address as this service holds for 
Mr T and Mr T hasnt said that he didnt receive these statements. I find the statements 
make it clear what Mr T needed to do to bring the account up to date and the consequences 
of not doing so which again included information about the impact on Mr Ts credit file. 
Overall, I find that Mr T should have been reasonably aware of the status of his account and 
the consequences of not making payments to his account. As Barclaycard has an obligation 
to report factual information to the credit reference agencies (CRA) about the conduct of an 
account, Im satisfied it didnt do anything wrong by reporting the missed payments on Mr Ts 
credit file.
As the investigator explained, guidance provided by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) says a lender can default an account when three to six monthly payments have been 
missed. From Mr Ts statements, I can see that that by June 2021, no payments had been 
made to his account since December 2020. So, I dont find that Barclaycard was wrong to 
consider Mr Ts account to be in default.
But I would expect Barclaycard to make Mr T aware of its intention to default his account and 
the consequences of such action. Mr T says Barclaycard didnt contact him about this. But 
Barclaycard has provided a copy of a default notice it sent to Mr T. The default notice is 
dated 2 July 2021 and is again addressed to the same address as we hold for Mr T. Ive also 
looked at Barclaycards system notes pertaining to Mr Ts account. And Im satisfied that 
these notes show a record of the default notice as being sent. Given this, Im persuaded that 
Barclaycard sent the default notice to Mr T. I accept he may not have received it, but I cant 
hold Barclaycard responsible for any issues with the postal system. 
The default notice set out what Mr T needed to do to bring his account up to date to stop the 
default from being registered. But subsequent statements dont show that any further 
payments were received. So, I havent found that Barclaycard did anything wrong when it 
defaulted Mr Ts account. And in these circumstances Barclaycard is entitled to sell the debt 
to a third-party debt collection firm. Overall, Im persuaded that Barclaycard provided Mr T with enough information for him to 
know that his account was being defaulted and the consequences of that action. And that it 
didnt do anything wrong when it sold the debt to a third-party debt collection firm.   
Did Barclaycard tell Mr T that the default would be removed from his credit file.
Mr T has provided a recording of call he had with Barclaycard. It wasnt clear if this call 
recording was from 2021 when Mr T first contacted Barclaycard about the default, or from a 
later date. So, we have since asked Barclaycard to provide any call recordings it has. 
Barclaycard has said that it no longer has a call recording from 2021, but it was able to 
provide a recording of the call from 2022. Ive listened to both Mr Ts call recording and the 
call recording provided by Barclaycard. And I find that they are recordings of the same call. 
And Im not persuaded Barclaycard told Mr T that the default would be removed from his 
credit file. Im satisfied Barclaycard said the record of the default would be closed by it and 
replaced by the third-party. 
I think it would be helpful to explain that when a debt is sold there should only be one record 
of a default on the account holders credit file. I havent seen a full copy of Mr Ts credit file 
report. But Mr T has provided a screenshot of the entry he is concerned about. Im satisfied 
this shows that the default is now recorded by the third-party debt collection firm and not 
Barclaycard. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr Ts credit file has been 
updated to show that the default record has been passed to the third-part debt collection firm 
as Barclaycard said it would. I understand that Mr T has agreed repayment terms with the 
third-party debt collection firm, so its for that firm to keep Mr Ts credit file up to date about 
his account.  
Overall, Ive not found that Barclaycard told Mr T that the default would be removed from his 
credit file. And based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Mr Ts credit file reflects an 
accurate status of his account. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to take any further action in 
respect of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman