DRN-3060617
The complaint
Mr V believes he was given incorrect information from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) about a Help To Buy ISA he took out with them.
What happened
Mr V took out a Help To Buy ISA with NatWest in March 2019. He says he was informed he 
would be eligible for a 25% bonus on the amount he placed into his ISA for his first home 
purchase in London, if the property value was below £500,000. Mr V says that he saved for 
over a year hoping that his savings could be used to purchase his first home.
Mr V wished to purchase a property in London which had a value of around £480,000. He 
says he contacted NatWest near the end of October 2020 to close his ISA and collect the 
funds accrued, along with any applicable bonus. He says he was told hell be eligible for the 
bonus during this call and will receive a letter along with bonus details he could provide to 
his solicitor.
Mr V says he later contacted NatWest and was shocked to hear that he wasnt eligible for 
the bonus as the purchase price of the property was above £450,000.
Over the next few weeks, Mr V says he was given mixed information each time he contacted 
NatWest and so made a complaint to them as he felt he was misinformed about the eligibility 
requirements for the bonus on his ISA. He says he and his wife (who also held an ISA with 
NatWest) lost around £2,750 and he also had to pay extra rent for a couple of months. Mr V 
also says that he went ahead with the house purchase by borrowing money from a friend.
NatWest told Mr V that they couldnt evidence they had given incorrect information about the 
ISA, but also couldnt dispute Mr Vs version of events, so offered £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill and credited his account. NatWest also said the ISA is a non-advice product and so 
didnt believe it was missold to Mr V. They say it is the customers responsibility to read the 
terms and conditions of the product they wish to take out and so they are unable to cover the 
losses Mr V says he incurred.
Mr V didnt feel NatWests offer was enough and so brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said that she couldnt find anything which suggested Mr V was given incorrect 
information about his ISA either at the time he took it out or when he closed it. She says that 
the terms of the ISA clearly show the eligibility requirements for the bonus and that a 
purchase of a property in London can be no more than £450,000.
Mr V was unhappy with the investigators opinion and requests an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. So, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the compensation Mr V has already been awarded by NatWest is a 
fair way to settle this complaint. Ill explain why below.
Help to Buy ISAs were set up by the government to help first-time home buyers. Its a 
product that allows a first-time home buyer to save up to £1,200 in their first month and then 
£200 each following month. The account holder will receive tax-free interest on the account, 
paid by the provider, like a normal cash ISA account. In addition, the government helps by 
paying a bonus of 25% on the amount saved when certain criteria are met. For example, the 
account holder must be a first-time buyer of a UK property and there are some limits to the 
maximum price of the property that can be purchased using the ISA.
When Mr V took out his ISA, he would have been provided with the terms and conditions of 
it. While the terms and conditions are not put in place by NatWest, as an ISA provider, they 
can run an account for a consumer, like Mr V. The terms state that to qualify for the 
government bonus, the property being bought must have a purchase price of up to £450,000 
in London.
Mr V says that he spoke to NatWest around the time he took out his ISA and they told him 
he could purchase a property in London up to the value of £500,000, and still qualify for the 
government bonus. NatWest has shown us that Mr V took out a Help To Buy ISA in March 
2019 online and told us they sold the ISA to Mr V on a non-advised basis. Where there is 
differing opinions between both parties, I must consider what I think is likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities, and on the information available to me.
NatWest hasnt been able to provide any recordings around the time Mr V took out the ISA. 
So, I cant be sure what Mr V may have been told over the phone. I appreciate Mr V feels 
strongly he was given incorrect information, and I accept it is possible he was told 
misinformation over a phone call.
However, I can see from what NatWest has shown me that Mr V took out the ISA online. 
NatWest say they sold the ISA product on a non-advice basis. Considering it was taken out 
online, on balance, I think that it was most likely sold non-advised. So, I need to be sure 
NatWest provided Mr V with information in a clear way to make an informed decision on the 
product he was intending to take out.
The terms set out clearly that if the property is situated in London, the purchase price cant 
be more than £450,000 to be eligible to make a claim for a bonus. So while I cant be sure 
what Mr V may have been told over a phone call, Im satisfied NatWest provided Mr V with 
enough information to understand what the eligibility requirements are to qualify for the 
bonus.
Mr V also says he was told by NatWest that he would be eligible for the bonus when he tried 
to close the ISA. Following the investigators findings, NatWest has now provided the call Mr 
V had with NatWest in October 2020. In that call, NatWest did say Mr V would be eligible for 
the bonus and confirmation would be sent out to him. Mr V also says in that call to NatWest 
that his solicitor told him he wouldnt be eligible for the bonus due to the purchase price of 
his property, so would like confirmation in writing to send to his solicitor. That suggests to me 
that Mr V was aware that he might not qualify for it. 
I think that if there was a possibility of a property not being eligible for the bonus, a 
reasonable person would enquire, like Mr V has. But Ive also noted a search online for the 
Help To Buy ISA also clearly shows what the eligibility requirements are  and was 
reasonably quick to find.It was no doubt frustrating for Mr V to have been given incorrect information during the call in 
October 2020, but he says he was told the right information about the property price limit 
when he phoned NatWest a few days later. Mr V says he went ahead with the purchase of 
the property after borrowing money from a friend to make up for the amount he was 
expecting from the bonus. NatWest offered £100 compensation and I think this is a fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced.
Ive also considered and as Ive explained above, the eligibility requirements are not put in 
place by NatWest. But they did provide Mr V the correct information at the time he took out 
his ISA.
So, while I understand it would have caused Mr V some frustration to have been given the 
wrong information when he called in October 2020, I think the £100 NatWest offered is fair 
given that this was corrected a short time later.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman