DRN-3846807
The complaint
Ms S complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) declined her request for a refund under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms S used her Aqua credit card to pay £200 to colour treat her human hair 
extensions. Ms S had an initial hair consultation, she provided a sample of the colour she 
wanted to achieve and says she was told the extensions were suitable for colouring and the 
blonde colour she wanted, could be achieved. However, Ms S says that when she attended 
her salon appointment, she didnt get the colour shed wanted, and the extensions were left 
dry and damaged. Ms S was also unhappy with the standard of service provided at the 
salon.  
Ms S says she raised her concerns with the stylist at the time, but they didnt offer a solution. 
In October 2021 Ms S made a formal complaint to the salons head office. In response it said 
Ms S was happy when she left the salon and she didnt raise a complaint within 14 days to 
allow it the opportunity to put things right, in line with its complaints policy. As Ms S raised 
her complaint five months after the service, it said it couldnt confirm what had been done to 
the extensions since the appointment, so it refused to re-colour or offer a refund.
Ms S asked Aqua to assist her with getting a refund in November 2021. Aqua didnt attempt 
a chargeback because it was already outside the 120-day time limit. It considered Ms S 
dispute under section 75. Aqua didnt think Ms S had provided enough evidence to 
demonstrate there had been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract by the salon, so it 
declined her claim. Ms S complained, she didnt think Aqua had considered all the evidence 
she provided. Aqua maintained it was right to decline her section 75 claim.
 
Unhappy with Aquas response, Ms S asked our service to look into her complaint. Our 
investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to confirm what hair colour had been 
agreed, so she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to confirm a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the salon. In addition, the investigator didnt think there was any 
supporting evidence to show Ms S raised concerns within the required 14 days. The 
investigator didnt think she could be certain the extensions hadnt been treated in the 
interim, given it took Ms S over five months to formally complain to the salon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a payment made, in part or whole, with 
a credit card, as is the case here the card provider can consider the dispute under two 
guises- chargeback and a section 75 claim.
Chargeback  
The chargeback process enables customers to ask their card issuer to refund payments on 
their card when there is a problem concerning a specific transaction. Individual card issuers 
have their own rules around how the scheme works  these are not set by the customers 
bank. The card issuer for Ms S transaction was Mastercard. Its rules state that a 
chargeback request needs to be raised within 120 days from the date of the transaction. Ms 
S contacted Aqua on 17 November 2021, which was already 174 days since the transaction 
date, so I dont think Aqua made a mistake when it didnt raise a chargeback on Ms S 
behalf.
Section 75
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of the goods or services and the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Ms S complaint about 
Aqua under section 75, I must be satisfied that there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the salon.
 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding Aquas liability under section 75. We certainly take into 
account the relevant law, which includes section 75. But we decide cases by considering 
what is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances. So, what Ill be deciding here, is whether I 
think Aqua handled Ms S claim fairly or not.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter an 
agreement and the consumer suffers loss because of the misrepresentation. Ms S says the 
hair colouring service was misrepresented to her because the stylist told her during her 
consultation that the extensions were suitable for colouring and said the colour she wanted 
would definitely be achieved. Ms S says she would not have agreed to pay for the 
treatment, if she had been told she couldnt get the desired results.
Ms S has provided images showing the colour of her hair extensions in comparison to the 
sample colour she wanted.  The sample colour is light blonde in appearance, whilst the 
extensions appear to be a darker blonde/light brown colour. Ive looked at Ms S invoice it 
details she received Balayage and Toner service, but it doesnt make any reference to 
what colour the extensions were to be dyed to. I havent seen any supporting evidence to 
confirm the agreed colour, nor have I seen anything to confirm Ms S was guaranteed her 
desired colour would be achieved.
 
Although Ms S says she complained on the day of her appointment. The salon manager 
said, you were satisfied with the results on your colour, back in May 2021 and there was no 
indication of you being dissatisfied. The earliest evidence of Ms S complaining is five 
months after her appointment. I would have expected her to escalate a complaint much 
sooner, if she didnt receive the colour she had been promised and the blonde colour was a 
key reason she entered the contract.  In addition, due to the lapse of time between Ms S 
appointment and her complaint, I cant say with any certainty the result of the extensions 
isnt due to any further treatments since the appointment. 
More recently Ms S says she didnt get the balayage service detailed on her invoice. Ms S 
says the balayage process should have created a natural highlighted effect, but instead she 
got a solid colour. Ms S also complains that she wanted the colour to have a gradual effect going from darker at the roots, and getting gradually lighter towards the end, rather than the 
two-tone effect she was given. 
Having looked at the images provided I can see the extensions are darker at the root, there 
also appears to be some subtle highlighting, with some strands appearing lighter in tone. I 
appreciate Ms S is unhappy with how the balayage highlights turned out, but I cant be sure 
what was agreed. The invoice only says balayage, there is nothing to confirm how this 
would be achieved. So, I cant fairly say the balayage service wasnt as described. 
In addition, I cant see that Ms S raised the balayage issue as part of her complaint to the 
salon, and I think she would have raised this, if this was a key reason for her to enter the 
contract, so I dont think there was a misrepresentation here. Again, the difficulty here is that 
due to the lapse of time before Ms S formally complained, I cant be certain the result isnt 
due to the extensions undergoing further treatment, since her appointment.
Under the Consumer rights Act 2015, if a service is not provided with reasonable care and 
skill or as agreed, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred and the supplier of 
the service should have an opportunity to put things right.
 
Ive already explained above why I cant say with any certainty that the hair colour and 
balayage service wasnt as described, so I wont repeat this again here. Ms S says she 
repeatedly had to ask the stylist not to drag the hair across the floor, the stylist didnt use any 
leave in products when blow drying the extensions and used the wrong brush to blow dry the 
hair, which Ms S says left the hair very dry. I appreciate that Ms S didnt receive the standard 
of service expected. However, I havent seen any supporting evidence to confirm these 
events took place and even if I had, I dont think these issues would amount to a breach of 
contract by the salon.
Ms S also says the salon left the hair damaged.  Unfortunately, I dont think any damage is 
obvious from the images provided and given Ms S didnt raise a formal complaint until five 
months after her appointment, I cant be certain any damage or dryness isnt the result of 
further colour, use of heat appliances or products. It follows that I cant reasonably say, there 
was a breach of contract by the salon.
In addition, I dont have any evidence that Ms S contacted the salon within 14 days, in line 
with the salons complaints policy. So, I cant say the salon were given an opportunity to 
assess the hair and try to put things right, so I dont think the salon were in breach of 
contract, when it later refused to refund the cost or re-colour the extensions.
Im sorry Ms S is disappointed with her experience with the salon, however Im not 
persuaded that there is sufficient evidence of misrepresentation or a breach of contract here, 
so in the circumstances, I dont think Aquas decision to reject her section 75 claim was 
unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman