DRN-3157806
The complaint
Mr B and Mr C complain about British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) for failing to carry
out annual services under their heating and appliance insurance. They think that this led to
the boiler failing and needing to be replaced. They want British Gas to reimburse them for
their replacement boiler and installation, to refund two years of their premiums, and to pay
them compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr B and Mr C held heating and appliance cover with British Gas for a number of years.
Around 2018, it transpired that British Gas were writing to Mr B and Mr C at an incorrect
address. They complained and were assured that the error had been corrected and that their 
address had been updated.
In October 2020, Mr B noted that it seemed a long time since the boiler had been serviced.
He contacted British Gas and learned that their renewal information and correspondence
from British Gas had continued to go to the incorrect address.
Mr B and Mr C complained and suggested that a service to their boiler ought to be carried
out as a priority.
British Gas had not yet sent its response to Mr B and Mr Cs complaint when, on 15
December 2020, their boiler stopped working.
Mr B contacted British Gas and arranged an appointment for 18 December 2020. During that
call he was advised that a call out charge would apply.
Mr B then contacted a third-party engineer who was able to attend their home that same
day.
The third-party engineer attended and inspected the boiler. He assessed that the sensors on
the boiler were faulty, the gas valve was defective, and there was corrosion around the flue.
He considered that the boiler was beyond economic repair and needed to be replaced.
Mr B and Mr C engaged that same engineer to replace the boiler, at a cost of around £9600, 
in addition to the call out charge of £140.
On 16 December 2020, Mr B tried to cancel his British Gas appointment, and was advised
that the appointment had not, in fact, been made.
On 20 December 2020, Mr B contacted British Gas to escalate his complaint, and added to
their complaint that he felt that British Gass inaction and failure to service the boiler had led
to its failure and subsequent replacement. He therefore wanted British Gas to reimburse the
costs of their new boiler and reimburse the previous two years premiums.
Mr B and Mr D then referred their complaint to us.
British Gas subsequently responded, partially upholding Mr B and Mr Ds complaint.
British Gas accepted that correspondence had continued to be sent to the incorrect address,
and that their service had been overdue for more than a year. British Gas also accepted that
there had been difficulties for customers contacting British Gas around the time when Mr B
had tried to get in touch. British Gas therefore offered to refund the cost of the original boiler,
which had been installed by British Gas 8 years previously, along with interest and £100
compensation. 
British Gas declined to reimburse the cost of the new boiler as it argued it had not had the 
opportunity to repair or inspect the boiler and so could not be satisfied that it was necessary 
to replace the boiler.
Mr B and Mr D rejected this offer.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and set out their views to the parties.
The investigator upheld the complaint and considered that British Gas needed to do more to
put things right.
British Gas made some submissions and our investigator issued a second view. This view
partially upheld Mr B and Mr Cs complaint but considered that they had acted too quickly in
engaging the third-party engineer before British Gas could attend. The investigator therefore
said that British Gas ought to refund the original boiler cost (plus interest), refund the cost of
the missed service, and pay £250 compensation.
The parties did not accept that view, so the complaint was passed for an ombudsman 
decision. 
I have previously issued two provisional decisions in relation to this complaint. Firstly, in 
August 2021 and then in November 2021. 
In these decisions I set out that I considered that Mr B and Mr C had missed out on two 
annual services due to British Gas not updating their address and not responding to their 
requests for a service. I therefore considered that British Gas should refund the value of 
these missed services (totalling £130).
I explained that I did not consider the response offered by British Gas to Mr B and Mr Cs 
boiler breakdown to be reasonable, or within a reasonable time, as offered by their cover.
British Gas offered an initial call out to be arranged for three days after Mr B and Mr C 
contacted British Gas, which would then be followed by a wait to carry out repairs or (if 
required) replacement of the boiler. An alternative engineer in the area of Mr B and Mr C 
could attend immediately, and thereafter could carry out repair works promptly. 
Given the time of year, the proximity to Christmas, and Mr B and Mr Cs previous 
experiences of non-response or action when dealing with British Gas, I considered that it 
was a reasonable response to engage the third party engineer, both for the initial call out 
and then for the replacement of the boiler. This was then borne out when it became clear 
that British Gas had not, in fact, booked in the call out to inspect the boiler. I therefore considered that British Gas ought to reimburse Mr B and Mr C for their costs 
relating to the replacement of the boiler (as this should have been carried out by British 
Gas), the costs of the call outs and missed visits, and also £250 compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience.
The parties responded to my provisional view, discussing what labour and parts costs 
related to the replacement of the boiler, and what costs were for additional or improvement / 
expansion services. There was no clear breakdown of which labour costs related to the 
replacement of the boiler and which did not, so in my most recent provisional decision I 
provisionally directed that the costs of labour be borne equally between Mr B and Mr C and 
British Gas. 
That view has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responding to my provisional decision, Mr B and Mr C provided information from their third-
party engineer which set out that the entire job had taken around 48 man-hours of labour. Of 
this, the engineer confirmed that 10 hours related to the additional work (which would not 
have been covered by British Gas), and 38 hours related to the removal and replacement of 
the boiler (which I provisionally indicated that British Gas should cover). They therefore 
argue that the costs of labour should be attributed as £1954 payable by Mr B and Mr C, and 
£5721 payable by British Gas. 
Those comments have been shared with British Gas and British Gas has provided detailed 
submissions. 
British Gas argues that it should only pay: 
£130 for missed visits;
£1379 for the boiler;
£250 distress and inconvenience compensation; and 
£140 for the call out costs of the third party. 
British Gas has submitted evidence of available parts which it says could have been 
replaced, rather than the boiler replaced, and argues that it has therefore demonstrated that 
it was not necessary to replace the boiler. 
British Gas says that it therefore ought not to pay towards the labour costs. 
I have considered all the evidence and the submissions put forward by the parties. In 
particular, I have considered British Gass submissions that the annual services would not 
have prevented the breakdown, and that it is satisfied that it would have been able to repair 
the boiler because the parts referenced by the third-party continued to be available.  
I accept that the annual services may well not have identified the issues which later 
developed, but I am not persuaded that British Gas can know that it could have repaired the 
boiler. A third-party engineer confirmed that the boiler was beyond economic repair and advised 
that it was appropriate to replace it. British Gas has previously complained that it was not 
given the opportunity to inspect the boiler to dispute this and to form its own opinion of the 
boiler condition. 
I previously indicated that I considered that British Gas lost its opportunity to inspect the 
boiler through its own delay, and I remain of that view. 
British Gas considers that all labour costs should be borne by Mr B and Mr C as they chose 
to use the third-party rather the pursue British Gas. I do not agree. As I have previously set 
out, I think the cumulative effect of the actions of British Gas made Mr B and Mr C 
reasonably believe that British Gas would not restore their heating to them before Christmas 
of that year, or within a reasonable time. 
I therefore think that British Gas should reimburse Mr B and Mr C for the labour costs which 
relate to work which ought to have been done by British Gas. 
I note, however, that the information provided by Mr B and Mr C details other parts and 
materials, including an expansion vessel, which fall within the improvement works and ought 
not to be reimbursed. The evidence shows that the total labour costs were £6840 (including 
VAT). 
On this basis, the cost of labour should be split as £1425 to be borne by Mr B and Mr C, and 
£5415 to be borne by British Gas. 
Having considered all submissions and evidence submitted, I remain of the view set out in 
my provisional decisions. Consequently, I adopt these, as supplemented by this decision, as 
my final decision.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, British Gas must:
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £130 to represent the value of the two missed annual services;
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £1925.63 to reimburse the cost of the boiler;
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £5415 to reflect third-party engineers labour costs;
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £140 representing the call out charge of their third-party 
engineer;
Deduct from the above total any excess which would have applied; and
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and for the reasons given in my provisional decisions, I 
uphold Mr B and Mr Cs complaint and direct British Gas Services Limited to:
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £130 to represent the value of the two missed annual services;
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £1925.63 to reimburse the cost of the boiler;
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £5415 to reflect third-party engineers labour costs;
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £140 representing the call out charge of their third-party 
engineer;
Deduct from the above total any excess which would have applied; and
Pay to Mr B and Mr C £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman