DRN-2370108
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd unfairly turned down his taxi 
insurance claim, after his taxi was stolen. 
What happened
Mr As taxi was stolen after a thief took the car keys out of the front door where Mr A had left 
them. Mr A said hed left the keys in the door as his hands were full of shopping and he was 
only in the house for a short while. He said when he returned to the taxi he saw the thief 
driving off in it. 
Nelson turned down Mr As claim because it said he didnt take reasonable steps to 
safeguard his taxi from loss. Mr A was unhappy with this and complained to our service. He 
said hed also complained to the police because part of the police statement wasnt 
accurate. Nelson agreed to reconsider Mr As claim on receipt of the updated police report. 
After viewing the updated police report Nelson said its decision remained the same. It said 
the amendment to the report was about Mr As son seeing the thief drive away, so didnt 
change that he hadnt taken reasonable steps to keep the taxi safe. 
Mr A brought his complaint back to our service. Our investigator didnt think Nelson acted 
fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr As claim because she didnt think hed been 
reckless. She also thought the term was ambiguous. So, she asked Nelson to pay Mr As 
claim, in line with the terms of the policy. 
Nelson didnt agree. It said the policy required reasonableness and so wasnt a test of 
whether Mr A was reckless. However, it also said it was reckless for Mr A to leave keys in 
the front door. Nelson added that Mr As original account was that the keys had been stolen 
from inside the house which means he knew he hadnt taken reasonable care.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr As policy say that he needs to take reasonable precautions to safeguard 
his vehicle. 
Our investigator thought the term was ambiguous. I dont think its ambiguous, but Im not 
going to comment on that point any further, as it doesnt matter to the outcome of my 
decision.
When considering whether its fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on the term that a
policyholder didnt take reasonable precautions, we consider whether they (in this case Mr 
A) were reckless. By this I mean that they recognised there was a risk and did nothing to 
avert it.
 
I appreciate Nelson dont think the test is whether Mr A was reckless but the term in the 
policy is similar to that considered in Sofi vs Prudential Assurance Co Ltd [1993]. So, we 
think its fair and reasonable to consider the term in the same way. And I also think doing so 
produces a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint. 
In this case Mr A didnt recognise a risk as he thought his key were safe in the front door for 
a while he took the shopping inside. Given the circumstances, Im persuaded that he didnt 
think his taxi would be stolen. I think its unlikely Mr A would have left his keys where they 
were if he thought there was a risk to his taxi being stolen given that he needed it for work. 
So, while Mr A might have been careless he wasnt reckless. And as such I dont think its 
fair and reasonable for Nelson to rely on this term to turn down Mr As claim.
I can see when he reported the claim initially Mr A said the thief came out of the house. But I 
dont think thats enough to persuade me he knew there was a risk when leaving his keys in 
the door. And I also dont think its material, because the Nelson should have paid the claim 
based on the circumstances of Mr A leaving the keys in the front door. 
As I dont think it was fair for Nelson to turn down Mr As claim, the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this particular compliant is for Nelson to pay Mr As claim, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Due to the time Mr As been without the money 
it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it 
makes payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Nelson Insurance Company Ltd 
to pay Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, plus interest 
at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes payment. 
If Nelson Insurance Company Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman