DRN-3036191
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the increase in premium Admiral Insurance Company Limited charged 
him when he changed his car mid-way through the term of his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M bought a car insurance policy with Admiral. He changed his car and as a result, 
Admiral increased the premium under the policy.
Mr M didnt think the increase was fair. He said the engine and specification of his new car 
was lower than the previous car. So he expected the premium to reflect that as he assumed 
it was a lower risk. 
Admiral said the premium it charged Mr M was correct. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral had acted correctly. 
Mr M didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to explain to Mr M that our role isnt to tell a business how it should 
operate. While I can look at whether Admiral treated Mr M fairly when applying the increase 
in premium, I cannot tell Admiral  or any insurer - what it should charge its customers for 
insurance products. 
Mr M said friends of his have been able to obtain insurance with Admiral in similar 
circumstances for less. I can only look at the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. 
But in any event, we do need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as 
there may be some known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the 
overall cost of the policy. And different insurers offer policies which may involve different 
benefits and/or levels of benefits  and the level of service offered to customers may also be 
different. I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can have a different perception of the 
risk a customer presents  and so the cost between insurers can vary widely based on each 
insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking to insure.
An insurers underwriting information is commercially sensitive, and so we cant share it with 
a consumer. I understand Mr M doesnt agree this is fair  as it means he cannot check the 
information for himself. But we can ask an insurer to provide it to us so that we can check it 
has treated a customer fairly. Im satisfied from the information Admiral has provided that it 
did.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But Admiral has shown that it 
treated Mr M fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. So this 
means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman