DRN-2715866
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP or the lender) was irresponsible 
to have agreed credit for her. 
What happened
CCP provided Mrs D with a loan of £5,500 in June 2018. The total amount of £25,300, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 260 weekly instalments of £97.31.
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mrs D provided 
CCP with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Mrs D didnt make her loan repayments 
CCP could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
I understand Mrs D repaid her loan in August 2019. 
Mrs D said that CCP was irresponsible to have agreed credit for her because it could see 
from the information she provided at the time that she was having problems managing her 
money. Mrs D explained that she was in a debt management plan with some of her creditors 
and was frequently spending large sums on gambling. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ds complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded CCP had lent irresponsibly. They recommended CCP refund all 
interest and charges paid on the loan and remove adverse information relating to it from 
Mrs Ds credit file.
Mrs D accepted the recommendation, but CCP didnt agree with it. The case has now come 
to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
The facts of the case are known to both parties and are not in dispute, so I wont go into 
what happened in detail but will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Before agreeing credit for Mrs D CCP needed to check that she could afford to meet her 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of her usual means without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The 
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mrs Ds circumstances, 
and CCP needed to take proper account of the information it gathered. 
CCP provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included Mrs Ds application form, her payslips and bank statements. I havent come to 
any conclusions about whether CCPs assessment was proportionate on this occasion or 
whether it ought to have done more before agreeing to lend to Mrs D. This is because I find 
that CCP ought to have known, or reasonably suspected, from the information it did have 
that Mrs D wasnt going to be able to repay further credit sustainably. 
The information CCP had showed that Mrs D was:
in a debt management plan with monthly repayments of about £600; 
spending a high proportion of her wages on identifiable gambling, for example, over 
£1,000 over three weeks in each of May and June with similar transactions via an 
online payments system in April;
paying out large sums to another bank account, for example £2,000 in June; and
recently borrowing from at least three short term lenders.
CCP says that it noted Mrs D was in a debt management plan and understood that it was a 
debt from July 2017. The lender says that Mrs D hadnt taken out further short term credit in 
the weeks prior to its loan, had no county court judgements and appeared to be managing 
her debts. CCP also noted Mrs Ds gambling spend but didnt find it to be problematic or 
systemic. It also commented that this spending was from disposable income and there was 
no clear evidence of this resulting in financial harm; in fact looking at the total credits on the 
bank statements there would also appear to be additional winnings in the intervening 
periods. Finally, CCP  also says it found the loan repayments to be affordable and noted that 
Mrs D had successfully met her repayments and settled her loan early. 
CCP was required to do more than assess Mrs Ds ability to repay the credit  it needed to 
check whether there was a risk to her be able to do so without experiencing adverse 
consequences. I think the information the lender had should have indicated that Mrs D 
wasnt managing her existing debt levels without difficulty, and so there was a risk that 
further credit was likely to simply add to her indebtedness. I think these circumstances 
together with Mrs Ds recent use of expensive short term credit were likely indications of an 
going financial need. Furthermore, irrespective of whether Mrs Ds spending patterns could 
be described as problematic, systemic or financially harmful, the extent and frequency of 
these ought reasonably to have raised serious concerns for CCP about her ability to meet 
her repayments when they were due over the loan term. 
So in this case, I dont think its likely that successfully meeting her repayments meant Mrs D 
managed to do so in a sustainable manner. Mrs D has provided her bank statements to this 
Service and I note that her short term lending repayments continued after the loan was 
agreed and I can see that she spent the bulk of the credit on gambling, which I think was an 
evident risk at the outset. Mrs D says that she continued to borrow from short term lenders 
and ended up with more debt being paid through repayment plans, putting her and her family 
under extreme stress.
Altogether, I find that CCP was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Mrs D and it needs 
to put this right. 
Putting things right
 I understand that the loan has now been repaid. In order to put things right for Mrs D, CCP 
needs to:
a) Refund to Mrs D all interest and charges she paid for the loan;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these amounts from the date they were paid to 
the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ds credit file; and d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mrs Ds car if this is still in place and return any relevant 
documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs D 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint about CarCashPoint 
Limited and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman