DRN-3553972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy Santander Bank UK plc hasnt reimbursed them for their loss 
after they were the victim of a scam.
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs W used a popular pet sale forum to find a seller with a cavapoo puppy for 
sale. She sought advice from a friend who was a breeder and followed the advice given on 
the forum around what to look for and how to make sure she was dealing with a legitimate 
seller. Shes said she contacted a few different breeders who were advertising over two 
months, but decided not to proceed with two when they asked her to meet outside of their 
homes, she wouldnt be able to see the puppy with their mother which she knew was 
important, or was asked to bring cash.
Mrs W spoke to another seller advertising a cavapoo along with photos and details of the 
mother and father. On 11 June 2020, she viewed the puppy via video call and asked 
questions about it. The seller said they werent a professional breeder, but their family dog 
had bred with their sisters family dog. They could answer Mrs Ws questions and everything 
seemed in order so she paid a deposit of £300.
The next day she went to visit the breeder so she could see the puppy with the mother as 
shed been advised she should. She saw them interact and saw that the mother was the 
breed she expected and the dogs were in a normal family home. She thought the puppy 
looked small, but was assured by the breeder this was because the father was small and 
they provided pictures to evidence this, which later turned out to be fake. Mrs W paid the 
remaining balance of £2,200 and took the puppy home.
A few days later Mrs W began to question the breed based on the way it looked, in 
particular, its size. She took it to a vet who confirmed the puppy was several weeks younger 
than she was told and carried out a DNA test which later confirmed it was a different breed 
to the one advertised. Mrs W took the puppy back to the breeder but they refused to take it 
back and ignored all further communication from her.
In June 2020 Mrs W contacted Santander to let it know she and Mr W had been the victim of 
a scam. It contacted the beneficiarys bank to let it know a scam had been reported and Mrs 
W has told us the beneficiarys bank froze the funds at this point. Shes said it then 
contacted Santander to let it know this, but as it received no response it released the money 
back to the beneficiary. Santander has said it didnt receive any response from the 
beneficiarys bank.
Santander considered the dispute Mrs W had raised but ultimately felt the matter was a civil 
dispute and not a scam as Mrs W had received a puppy and had handed over the money to 
the breeder when she collected it. Because it didnt feel shed been the victim of the scam it 
didnt feel it was responsible for reimbursing her and shed need to address the matter with 
the seller directly.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year and in summary said that:
I was satisfied Mr and Mrs W had been the victims of a scam and werent involved in 
a civil dispute. I thought it was clear theyd been deliberately misled into buying a 
different breed of puppy to the one they intended to buy. And I felt it was likely they 
were misled for the purpose of obtaining more money for the puppy.
Whilst I accepted that in some cases where a consumer ends up with an item that 
might have value, even if it wasnt what they expected, we might consider their loss 
somewhat mitigated, I didnt feel this applied in this particular case. A puppy is a long 
commitment that comes with an ongoing cost. And there wouldve likely been an 
emotional burden as well as some practical difficulties in trying to rehome or give up 
a puppy, which ultimately Mr and Mrs W felt unable to do. It was clear the breed of 
the puppy theyd intended to buy was not what they ended up with, and that choosing 
a breed is one of the most important factors in choosing a puppy. I felt it was difficult 
to quantify exactly what loss they had suffered in this case. Whilst Id no doubt the 
ownership of the puppy had brought some value to their lives, essentially theyd 
ended up with an ongoing responsibility and cost that would likely impact them for 
many years. So overall I felt it was reasonable to consider Santander responsible for 
the entire loss in this case.
As I was satisfied the situation was a scam, I was satisfied the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code of which Santander are 
signatories applied. The code sets out that unless Santander could establish its 
customer failed to meet a reasonable level of care under one or more of the listed 
exceptions when making the scam payment, its liable for reimbursing it. In this case, 
the only relevant exception was whether Mr and Mrs W made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing the payee was the person the customer was expecting 
to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or 
business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
I didnt think Santander had established Mr and Mrs W didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing the above. They used a widely used pet sale forum to find the 
puppy, followed the advice on the forum and got advice from a professional breeder 
around what to look for which included seeing the puppy interact with its mother. 
They had a video call with the seller before handing over a deposit, asked about the 
puppies parents, were shown falsified evidence about the parents, and were 
provided a plausible story about the breeders being hobby breeders rather than 
professionals. Mrs W visited the puppy in person before handing over the money, 
she saw it was in what appeared to be a normal family home and the cost was in line 
with other puppies of the alleged breed at the time. And, the appearance of the 
puppy wasnt so different that it seems it wouldve been obvious it was a different 
breed.
As I didnt think any exceptions under the CRM code applied, I felt Santander should 
refund Mr and Mrs W for their loss in full. I also felt it should apply interest on this 
amount from 7 July 2020, as based on what I could see this is when Santander 
reasonably ought to have responded to Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Mr and Mrs W accepted my provisional decision but Santander didnt. It said:Although Mr and Mrs W carried out some checks, they shouldve asked for 
paperwork to prove the lineage of the puppy or consulted a vet before parting with 
their money.
They had a puppy, so it offered a refund of 50% of their loss in resolution of the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the additional comments from Santander, Im not persuaded to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Should Mr and Mrs W have asked for more documentation?
When considering this particular case my role is to consider whether or not Mr and Mrs W 
had a reasonable basis for believing what they were told about the payment they were 
making. This is a different standard to whether or not they did everything they possibly 
couldve to verify the breed or legitimacy of the puppy they were buying.
If they had been buying a puppy from a professional breeder, or they were buying a 
pedigree, perhaps it would be expected a reasonable person would ask to see some kind of 
paperwork to prove the lineage of the puppy. But they were aware they were looking to buy 
a family pet from what they understood was another family. I dont think a reasonable person 
in this scenario would expect to see paperwork proving the animals lineage and I cant see 
this is something that is generally advertised in other sales of this kind. 
I do accept that even for a young puppy a reasonable person would expect theyd received 
some treatment from the vet and so perhaps there might be some paperwork related to this. 
And in this case Mr and Mrs W have said they did ask about the details of any vet treatment 
the puppy received. The scammer advised theyd received worming and flea treatment, 
which doesnt typically come with vet paperwork, and although some vaccinations had been 
carried out it required a follow up booster to be certified as fully vaccinated and so the 
paperwork couldnt be provided yet. This was in line with Mr and Mrs Ws own experience of 
vaccinating their previous puppy, so they didnt find it unusual. The scammer agreed they 
would provide the details of the treatment to Mr and Mrs Ws own vet when they visited with 
the puppy, and this can be verified in the messages theyve provided between them and the 
scammer. They clearly show Mrs W asking for the treatment details to provide to her vet. 
Overall, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably in accepting what the scammer told them or 
in not asking for more paperwork.
Im also not persuaded that even if they had been provided with paperwork a reasonable 
person would be able to know whether or not such documentation is authentic. Again, its 
clear in this case the scammer went to some lengths to mislead Mr and Mrs W about the 
puppy.
Santander has also suggested Mr and Mrs W shouldve consulted with a vet. Its not 
explained in what capacity it means or how it feels this wouldve uncovered the scam. I dont 
think a reasonable person would ask to take a puppy to the vet for a consultation or start 
carrying out tests on them before they took ownership of them. Mr and Mrs W took the 
puppy to a vet within a few days of taking them home and it was ultimately a DNA test that 
confirmed the breed, so its clear this isnt something even a vet was able to identify by 
looking at the puppy. Are Mr and Mrs W entitled to a full refund of the money they paid to the scammer?
Santander have said Mr and Mrs W still have the puppy, and so their loss isnt the full 
amount they paid to the scammer. It hasnt provided any evidence or argument to support 
this.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I have considered this point very carefully. I accept 
there may be situations where if someone receives something of comparable or even some 
value its reasonable to take this into account when thinking about the overall loss theyve 
suffered. But in this case, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say Mr and Mrs W havent 
suffered a total loss of the money they paid to the scammer. In reaching this conclusion Ive 
taken the following points into account.
I dont think there is a reliable way to quantify how much money Mr and Mrs W could expect 
if they tried to resell their puppy (which is now an adult dog). Based on what I can see, the 
breed they have is, as a starting point, worth less than the breed they paid for. Older dogs 
seem to be less sought after and therefore worth less than puppies. And, based on the 
information from the pet forum they used from the time they bought their puppy and now, it 
seems the price of puppies in general has decreased significantly following the end of the 
pandemic. So I think its likely that if they tried to resell their puppy the price they would be 
able to obtain, should they find a buyer, would be considerably less than the amount they 
paid. And given how nuanced the circumstances of their situation are, I dont think there is a 
reliable way to measure what price the reselling of the dog would achieve.
Even if I could reasonably assess what monetary value the dog might achieve should they 
choose to sell, I think its important to factor in that there would be some emotional burden 
involved in trying to rehome or resell a dog. Especially given the amount of time Mr and Mrs 
W have spent with the dog as they were unable to return or surrender them to a charity 
straight after the purchase. Id also add that trying to resell an animal responsibly and 
ethically is in itself likely to be a burden on a reasonable person and will come with a level of 
inconvenience and work in trying to find a suitable buyer if there was interest in the dog.
It may be that Santanders comments are a reflection of the fact that the dog does bring 
some value to Mr and Mrs Ws lives, and I have no doubt this is the case. But whilst Mr and 
Mrs W do have a dog, which was their expectation, I think its reasonable to say the breed 
is one of the most important factors in choosing a dog. Because the dog wasnt the breed 
they wanted, they dont have the same assurances they otherwise mightve about the dogs 
future health, behaviour or care needs and theres no way of knowing the impact this might 
have.
The dog also comes with an ongoing financial cost. And whilst Mr and Mrs W mightve 
already factored this cost into their lifestyle as they expected to come home with a puppy, 
they have lost the opportunity to have the breed they wanted without an additional financial 
cost. And, its reasonable to assume this is a commitment that they will now have for several 
years.
Essentially, if you think of the puppy solely as an item purchased, Mr and Mrs W were 
tricked into handing over their money for something they didnt intend to buy and have kept 
because they were unable to return it and couldnt reasonably arrange for someone else to 
take ownership of it. And whilst they do benefit from the item this is because the item in 
this case is a living thing that needs their care and attention and will do for many years.
Overall, taking into account the very limited options Mr and Mrs W had that drove the 
decision to keep the dog, the material loss theyve suffered and the potential future impact of this loss, Im satisfied they should receive full reimbursement for the money they paid to the 
scammer. 
Santander should:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs W for their loss in full (£2,500)
Add interest at a rate of 8% on the above amount from 7 July 2020 (the date the 
money ought to have been reimbursed) to the date of settlement 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander Bank UK plc should reimburse Mr and Mrs W in line with 
the redress Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman