DRN-1516723
The complaint
Mrs H says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs H had three instalment loans with Lending Stream. I've summarised some information
Lending Stream provided about these loans in the table below.
Loan no. Start date End date Amount (£)
1 12-Jun-17 23-Jun-17 350
2 02-Aug-17 23-Aug-17 700
3 23-Sep-17 Not Closed 860
  
The loans were contractually repayable over six months, with the largest monthly 
repayments (the figures are rounded) for the three loans being £160, £283 and £378 
respectively.
An adjudicator considered Mrs H's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs H didn't 
agree so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mrs H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mrs H, Lending Stream asked her to provide some information about her 
income and expenditure. Mrs H declared a monthly income of £1,800 for loan 1 and £2,300 
for loans 2 and 3. Mrs H declared monthly expenditure of £1,580 for loan 1 and a little under 
£1,300 for loans 2 and 3. Lending Stream also carried out a credit check, which seems to 
have resulted in a score within the 'good' range (i.e. neither very good, nor very bad). The 
credit check did highlight one defaulted account but also suggested this default was well 
over three years old.
I think these checks were proportionate and it was reasonable for Lending Stream to agree 
these loans based on the information it obtained. I understand Mrs H considers 
Lending Stream should've asked her for proof of income/employment and her bank statements. But I think that would not have been proportionate in the circumstances. So 
although Mrs H now says that some of the information she gave to Lending Stream wasn't 
accurate, I don't think Lending Stream could reasonably have known that.
For these reasons, I'm not upholding Mrs H's complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs H's complaint against Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman