DRN-2385495
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund him £300 after he says a cash 
machine failed to dispense his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some key events here. 
In March 2020 Mr O tried to withdraw £300 from a cash machine. The machine was owned 
by another bank, who Ill refer to as S. Mr O says the machine did not dispense the money 
hed requested and showed his account balance to be £100, which was lower than 
expected. He says he also checked his balance using another machine (which was located 
next to Ss machine), which too showed his balance to be £100. Worried, he stepped aside 
to check his account using his mobile banking app, this is when he saw £300 had been 
debited from his account. He immediately contacted Nationwide. 
Nationwide raised a cash machine dispute claim. It told Mr O it could take up to fourteen 
days to receive an outcome. 
Mr O also contacted S  who advised him to wait for a response from Nationwide. 
Based on the information provided by S, Nationwide concluded that the money had been 
correctly dispensed and informed Mr O it would not be refunding the disputed amount. 
Mr O asked Nationwide about his next steps. It was suggested he raise the claim again  
which he did. After a further fourteen days, Mr O says he chased Nationwide several times, 
but no update was provided. He complained. 
Nationwide tried to speak to Mr O over the phone about his complaint, but he was concerned 
and uncomfortable sharing his security details with an unknown caller. As Nationwide 
couldnt complete telephone validation it wrote to Mr O explaining; 
- Its decision remained the same with respect to the cash machine claim. It 
re-confirmed that S had checked the machine and has provided evidence to show 
the machine balanced and no discrepancy was found in relation to his withdrawal. 
- It recommended he contact the police, if he believes a crime has taken place.
- It said as it has not made an error (in relation to the disputed cash machine 
withdrawal) it would not be providing him with a refund of £300. 
- However, it did acknowledge that it had incorrectly advised him to make a second 
claim. It had closed the claim as a duplicate and recognised that it had not 
communicated this to him. It apologised and said that it would be crediting his 
account with a compensatory amount of £25 in recognition of the poor service and 
lack of updates. 
Mr O raised another complaint as he still remained unhappy with the handling of his claim 
and the poor customer service hed received from Nationwide staff investigating his 
complaint about its handling of his claim. Nationwide agreed and acknowledged the 
telephone calls couldve been handled better, with a greater level of customer care. It made 
an additional £40 compensatory offer.  
Mr O remained dissatisfied with Nationwides decision to not refund the disputed cash 
withdrawal and the customer service provided. He referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. She said the information S provided 
Nationwide showed the money was dispensed and didnt show any discrepancies with the 
cash machine balancing. She didnt think Nationwide had made any errors or acted unfairly 
when relying on the evidence available to reach its decision to not refund Mr O. She 
concluded that she didnt think Nationwide needed to provide Mr O with a refund for the 
disputed cash withdrawal and taking all the circumstances into consideration the 
compensatory offer made for the poor customer service was fair and reasonable.  
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I will not be asking Nationwide to 
refund this money. I know that my decision will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I understand Mr O feels strongly about this incident. He is adamant the cash machine 
did not dispense the money hed requested. A notable proportion of Mr Os submissions 
focus on his dissatisfaction with S actions (or lack of) and the fact that he is not able to 
contact it directly about the issue and the only contact accessible to him is his bank 
(Nationwide). I can see how this would be frustrating, but Im afraid the process across the 
banking industry is that a claim in relation to a cash machine dispute is raised by the card 
holders bank (in Mr Os case Nationwide). The cash machine operator would then have a set 
number of days to either accept or defend the claim. Here Mr Os claim was defended. And 
as the cash machine wasnt operated by Nationwide, it needed to rely to a large extent on 
the information provided by S. But to be clear for Mr O, I cant consider the actions taken by 
S - the decision I need to make is whether Nationwide acted unreasonably or unfairly in 
reaching its decision to not provide him with a refund.
I also note Mr O has made reference to another incident where his claim in relation to a cash 
machine deposit was initially declined as the machine reconciled. But upon production of a 
receipt, the bank re-investigated the claim and found the missing funds. I understand why 
Mr O raises this point, Ive taken this into consideration, and I accept machines arent 
infallible. But I must consider this alongside the evidence presented in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint to decide what I consider to be most likely. And whether or 
not Nationwides actions were fair and reasonable. 
I hope Mr O appreciates that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint 
based solely on his testimony, or the outcome of a separate dispute if, on balance, the 
evidence in the individual circumstances of this complaint suggest otherwise.And whilst Im sure Mr O is certain in what he tells this service, I cannot ignore the technical 
evidence provided by S to Nationwide which shows;
- the money was successfully dispensed;
- there was no £300 cash surplus when the cash machine was balanced, which is what 
Id expect to see if the money was not dispensed and retracted; 
- the cash machine journal shows use of the machine before and after Mr Os withdrawal 
attempt which suggests it was functioning correctly; and 
- its records from the time show Mr Os available balance to be greater than £100 (which 
is different to Mr Os version of events). 
Overall, taking all the above into consideration, I dont think the conclusion reached by 
Nationwide that its more likely than not that the cash was correctly dispensed is 
unreasonable. And since theres no dispute that Mr Os genuine card and PIN were entered, 
and hed made an attempt to withdraw £300. It follows that Nationwide were therefore 
entitled to debit Mr Os account with that sum. So, I dont believe it would be fair to ask 
Nationwide to provide Mr O a refund.    
I appreciate Mr O has said that he trusted Nationwide to represent him, advise him (e.g. on 
matters such as contacting the police) and to look after his finances. He feels let down by its 
decision to not refund the disputed cash withdrawal amount and with the overall service he 
has received from Nationwide whilst dealing with his claim. But I dont think these are a 
reason to ask Nationwide to provide Mr O with a refund for the amount he disputes.
Overall, I think the acknowledgement, apology and compensatory amount already paid by 
Nationwide for the customer service failings during the handling of Mr Os claim is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Os complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr O but for the reasons Ive explained above I dont 
think Nationwide need to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman