DRN-3286424
The complaint
Mrs K says Pinnacle Insurance Plc, trading as EVERYPAW, mis-sold her pet insurance 
cover.
What happened
Mrs K took out a lifetime policy with Pinnacle online in 2019. She selected cover that 
provided up to £4,000 towards vets fees per year and renewed the policy in 2020 and 2021.
Following some claims, Mrs K made a further claim when, in 2021, her pet unfortunately 
became unwell and required surgery. Pinnacle confirmed it wouldnt cover the claim in full 
since the cover shed chosen included a further limit of £1,000 per condition per year which 
had been reached. This left Mrs K with a vets bill of thousands of pounds still to pay.    
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs K complained to Pinnacle on the grounds that the policy  
and another policy shed taken out later to cover another pet  had been mis-sold to her. 
She said, among other things, that Pinnacles website  unlike other providers websites  
was mis-leading and didnt make clear that the overall policy limit also included this inner 
limit. Mrs K said her treating vet agreed with her. 
In rejecting the complaint, Pinnacle accepted its website didnt refer to the £1,000 limit but 
said it did explain the benefits shown online may vary depending on the cover chosen. It said 
the certificates of insurance it sent to Mrs K in 2019 and at each renewal detailed the 
benefits available to her which included the inner limit. Pinnacle thanked Mrs K for her 
feedback which it said helped it to continuously improve its services and processes. 
Mrs K remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the 
complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They thought that, although 
Pinnacles website didnt refer to the £1,000 limit, the paperwork she was sent did set it out 
and that this was sufficient.
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt understand how both Pinnacle and the 
investigator could agree with her that the website was mis-leading and yet not uphold her 
complaint. Mrs K didnt dispute that the paperwork it sent her was clear but emphasised that 
this was sent after shed been sold the policy, which was too late. 
The complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs K bought the policy online and, as far as Im aware, without any human interaction. As 
such, Pinnacle didnt recommend the policy to her. Which means it didnt need to take steps 
to ensure the policy was suitable for her.
It follows that the main issues for me to decide in this case are whether Pinnacle failed to 
provide Mrs K with enough information to make an informed decision about taking the policy. 
And, if so, whether those failings made a difference to Mrs Ks decision to take out the 
policy.
In terms of the information provided, I note Mrs Ks point that she and her vet feel Pinnacles 
website was unclear regarding the £1,000 limit. Pinnacle itself accepts its website made no 
mention of that limit and that some other websites did. But I dont think Pinnacle felt this 
made its website unclear. And I believe its website contained sufficient information so as not 
to be mis-leading.
I say that because, in addition to setting out the headline vet fees limits, the website went on 
to explain that the benefit values featured may vary across the different levels of cover and 
will depend on the cover selected. Pinnacle added that consumers should check their cover 
before purchasing and included links to its policy exclusions and the policy document itself.
The policy document says:
We will reimburse you the cost of any treatment your pet has received for a 
condition(s), up to the limits set out in your certificate of insurance.
The above information was provided or made available to Mrs K at the time of the sale. I 
agree with her that she probably  and understandably  placed emphasis on what she saw 
then rather than what she was sent after the sale.
That said, I believe the paperwork Pinnacle sent Mrs K was sent just after the sale is of 
relevance in considering the overall sales process. After all, as Pinnacles acceptance letter 
explained, Mrs K had 14 days in which to look over everything and check that the cover met 
her needs before cancellation costs came into effect. Enclosed with the letter was the 
certificate of insurance  as referred to in the policy terms  which explained that the policy 
provided up to £4,000 of vet fees cover per year, subject to a maximum of £1,000 per 
condition per year. 
Although this isnt to say that the information couldnt have been made clearer, overall, I 
believe Pinnacle provided Mrs K with adequate information about the policy limit. 
Even if I thought Pinnacle had mis-informed Mrs K about the policy, Id need to consider 
what difference that might have made to her at the time of the sale. Id need to think about 
whether clearer information would have stopped her from buying the policy. 
I recognise that Mrs K says she wouldnt have bought the policy had she known about the 
£1,000 limit. While I accept that may have been one of several factors in her decision, I 
havent seen strong enough evidence to suggest that the limit in itself would have put her off 
the policy in 2019. This likely would have been something shed have weighed up along with 
things like the overall policy limit and the policy premium, among other things.  
Taking everything into account, and while I appreciate that Mrs Ks in a difficult financial 
situation, I dont consider that Pinnacles treated her unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman