DRN-2960107
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with three claims on his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W holds a commercial vehicle insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. He was involved in 
three separate incidents, all of which he believed not to be his fault. Two incidents were road 
traffic accidents that Mr W thought the other driver (the third party) was responsible for. And 
the third incident involved Mr Ws vehicle being vandalised.
Mr W isnt happy with how Aviva dealt with all three of these claims. He first complained to 
Aviva and let it know his concerns.
The first claim involved an accident in February 2020. Mr W is unhappy with the delay in 
dealing with this claim and when he brought his complaint to us in March 2021 the claim was 
still open and recorded as a fault claim. Mr W wasnt happy with the time taken to deal with 
this claim and doesnt think its fair his no claims discount (NCD) is affected as he doesnt 
think he was at fault and hasnt claimed for any damage to his own vehicle.
The second claim involved Mr Ws vehicle being vandalised in September 2020. Hes 
unhappy Aviva didnt repair his van and didnt think it was fair he needed to pay his excess if 
he wanted to claim as he says it clearly wasnt his fault his vehicle was vandalised.
The third claim involved an accident too, this time in October 2020. Mr W did want to claim 
for damage to his vehicle this time but didnt think it was fair he had to pay his excess as he 
thought he wasnt at fault for the accident. His vehicle was never repaired.
Aviva looked into Mr Ws concerned and agreed it could have done better.
It said the first claim remained open as it was still waiting to hear from the third party as they 
thought Mr W was partially responsible for the incident. It said while the claim was open it 
would be recorded as a fault claim which affected Mr Ws NCD. Aviva said if it was settled 
and it didnt need to pay the third-party insurer any costs, then it would be recorded as a 
non-fault claim and Mr Ws NCD would be reinstated. It acknowledged it was slow in dealing 
with this claim, and only proactively started dealing with it in January 2021.
Aviva said the damage to Mr Ws vehicle caused by the vandalism would cost less to fix than 
Mr Ws excess, so it said there was no benefit to him claiming from the policy and referred 
him to the legal cover part of the policy to see if he could claim directly from person who 
caused the damage.
Aviva said there was a breakdown in communication on the third claim. It says it can reopen 
this claim and Mr W can have the damage caused by this incident repaired.
Aviva offered £350 compensation for the delays and miscommunication in dealing with these 
three claims.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He didnt think it was fair his NCD 
was affected when he wasnt to blame for any of the three claims. He also didnt think the 
compensation was enough and thought £1,000 would be a fairer offer.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. Aviva had 
shown that it had closed the first claim in April 2021 as it hadnt heard anything more from 
the third party. This means Aviva would have allowed Mr Ws NCD. But in June 2021 the 
third party got back in contact with Aviva and so the claim needed to be reopened. She 
thought it was fair Aviva do this and record the claim as a fault claim while it was being 
investigated.
She thought Avivas actions in relation to the vandalism claim were reasonable.
And she thought Aviva were acting reasonably when offering to repair the damage being 
claimed for in the third claim.
Overall, she thought the £350 compensation was fair in the circumstances and didnt 
recommend Aviva increase it.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I understand he wont be happy with 
this answer. Ill explain my reasoning.
Much of Mr Ws complaint involves his NCD and his excess. So, its worth explaining how 
these two things work, and then apply this to the circumstances of each claim.
NCD
No claims discount, or NCD is a discount most insurers provide to their insured for not being 
involved in any claims. The term no claims is a little misleading as often insurers allow a 
discount as long as the claim is a non-fault claim. So, in effect the NCD is usually a discount 
applied to the premium for the insurer not needing to pay any claims.
It helps here to explain briefly how claims are recorded too as the words fault and non-fault 
can be quite emotive and dont tell the full story.
When an insurer pays out on a claim, its recorded as a fault claim and usually the NCD is 
disallowed. This is irrespective of who was at fault for the incident. If an insurer is able to 
recover all its costs from another party usually another insurer (the third-party insurer)  
because they accept liability for the incident, then the claim is recorded as non-fault and the 
NCD is usually allowed.
While the claim is open, the insurer will usually record the claim as fault and disallow the 
NCD until its settled as above. This also applies when a policyholder doesnt make a claim 
themselves, but a third party makes a claim against them. The insurer will usually open a 
claim and while it investigates it itll record it as a fault claim. If it accepts liability and pays 
the third party any costs the claim stays recorded as a fault claim. If the third party stops pursuing the claim, then the insurer will usually close the claim as notification only or non-
fault and allow the NCD.
Excess
The excess is the first part of the claim the policy holder needs to pay. This too is regardless 
of who is at fault for the incident. If you claim on your insurance policy, its likely youll need 
to pay an excess. If another party accepts liability for the incident as set out above, the 
insurer will usually include the excess in the costs it recovers from the third party and return 
the excess to the policyholder.
Looking at these two concepts and applying to them to Mr Ws three claims, Im satisfied 
Aviva is acting fairly now. It has caused delays, but Im satisfied what its done to put things 
right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first claim
Aviva has acknowledged it didnt deal with this claim as quickly as it should have. The 
incident was in February 2020 and it didnt deal with the claim until January 2021. Mr W 
didnt want the damage to his vehicle repaired during this claim, and I understand he thinks 
he wasnt at fault for the incident. But the third party disagrees, they think Mr W is at fault for 
the incident and made a claim to Aviva for the damage to their vehicle.
Aviva has a duty to investigate this claim, and I can see it offered to settle this claim on a 
split liability basis. This means the claim would still be recorded as a fault claim because 
Aviva paid out on it. Aviva didnt hear back from the third party, so it closed the claim as non-
fault in April 2021.
But the third-party insurer contacted Aviva in June 2021 saying it didnt accept the split 
liability offer. As frustrating as this is for Mr W, Aviva then needed to reopen the claim  and 
as set out above, while its open, its treaded as a fault claim.
I understand Mr W is unhappy with the third party and doesnt think they can do this. But 
Aviva needs to look into any claim made on the policy, so Im satisfied it was entitled to 
reopen this claim and complete an investigation into it.
When the claim is settled (or if its closed), Aviva should let Mr W know, and let him know 
how its been settled and whether it affects his NCD or not.
The second claim
As set out above the excess is something Mr W needs to pay on any claim regardless of 
fault. Its clear he isnt to blame for his vehicle being vandalised, but thats not whats meant 
by a fault claim as mentioned previously. Should another party accept liability for an incident 
then its likely hell get his excess back  but he still needs to pay it first. In this claim, Aviva 
has said that its unlikely itll be able to recover the cost to repair the damage from the vandal 
themselves and its said Mr Ws excess is more than the cost to repair the damage. So 
theres no benefit of him claiming for the damage from the policy. Im satisfied thats 
reasonable.
The third claim
There is some confusion around this claim. Its not entirely clear what happened, and Mr Ws 
claim wasnt progressed. Theres information which indicates Aviva agreed to waive his 
excess but that the repairs werent completed as Mr W wanted to have the damage caused by the vandalism repaired too which wasnt authorised. Theres also notes suggesting Mr W 
didnt want to have these repairs carried out under his policy and he was going to claim from 
the third party. At the point the complaint came to us Aviva said it could repair Mr Ws vehicle 
but as liability for the incident was in dispute this claim would also be recorded as a fault 
claim. But since coming to us, Aviva has said the third-party insurer has accepted liability 
and so If Mr W wants to claim for the damage he can do so. Its still likely to affect his NCD 
until Aviva recovers its costs. But Aviva has said it should be able to recover these costs 
now the third-party insurer has accepted liability. Im satisfied this is reasonable.
Compensation
Its clear there were long periods of time where Aviva hadnt taken action when it should 
have. But I cant fairly say the February claim would be settled sooner had it not caused 
these delays. And if it were settled sooner it looks like the claim would likely have been 
settled with Aviva accepting full or split liability for the incident. Both of which would affect 
Mr Ws NCD as both would be recorded as a fault claim  as indeed an open claim would 
too.
And while there are issues with communication on this complaint, I cant fairly say these 
were all caused by Aviva. As things stand, Im satisfied the claims are recorded correctly and 
Mr W is in possession of all the information he needs to decide whether or not he wants 
Aviva to repair the damage caused to his van during that third incident in October 2020.
Overall, Im satisfied £350 compensation is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W in having to chase these claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman