DRN-2648782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold them a mortgage 
endowment policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage endowment policy with Aviva in 1998. Mr and Mrs M 
have recalled taking out the endowment in 1988. But the documentation provided by Aviva 
shows a start date of July 1998. 
Mr and Mrs M surrendered the policy in 2003 and at this time they moved to a repayment 
mortgage. In 2019, they complained to Aviva about the endowment being mis-sold.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It explained that the paperwork theyd been 
able to provide wasnt sufficient for it to investigate the alleged mis-sale. And it no longer 
held full records for this policy.
Mr and Mrs M, through a representative, brought their complaint to our service. They said 
that it was highly likely the policy was sold directly by Aviva or one of its appointed 
representatives. And that it was unreasonable for Aviva to expect Mr and Mrs M to hold 
documentation in relation to the sale. They maintained the policy was unsuitable.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that there wasnt enough evidence 
available to be able to assess whether the policy was suitable when it was sold. And that he 
didnt consider it was unreasonable of Aviva to no longer hold documentation, considering 
that the policy was taken out and then surrendered so many years ago. Mr and Mrs M asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the conclusions reached by the investigator that this 
isnt a complaint we can uphold.
I do appreciate the point Mr and Mrs Ms representatives have made about it not being 
reasonable to expect them to have documentation going back so many years. However, I 
also agree with our investigator that the same can be said for Aviva.
Mr and Mrs M surrendered this policy in 2003. They complained about the policy around 
16 years later. Aviva has confirmed that it no longer has full records for this policy, due to the 
time passed  and I cant say thats unreasonable. The representative has suggested Aviva 
is hiding behind the Data protection rules; and should get the information from its archives. 
But I dont agree this is the case; or possible. Aviva must comply with data protection 
regulations, which set rules for data retention and disposing of customer information when 
its no longer in use. And Aviva has confirmed it no longer holds any more information than 
has been provided. So we cant ask anything more of it. 
With the paperwork we do hold its not possible to conclude that this policy was mis-sold. We 
dont have a Fact Find, for example, to understand what was said to Mr and Mrs M about the 
policy or to fully assess what their personal situation was at the time of sale.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration that Aviva holding very limited records means this 
case is then not upheld. But at the same time, Mr and Mrs Ms recollections are also not 
consistent with the information Aviva has been able to supply, which considering the time 
passed isnt unexpected or unreasonable. But, for example, they have provided details in 
relation to a sale in 1988, when the sale was in 1998. So I cant say I could safely rely on 
their recollections of the sale alone to consider this complaint. And without any additional 
paperwork to understand what was asked by Aviva at that time, and what information 
Mr and Mrs M actually provided, I cant say this policy was unsuitable  and so mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman