DRN-3865266
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed her overdraft facility and provided her 
with poor customer service.
What happened
Mrs I received a letter from Barclays dated 25 February 2022. This informed her that based 
on the information they had available to them, about her income and outgoings, and given 
that she had not used her overdraft in the last 12 months, they were going to remove her 
overdraft of £350 on 15 April 2022. The letter states that she can ask them to look at the 
decision again if she still felt she needed an overdraft by providing them with her current and 
likely future income and her existing and future financial commitments. 
Mrs I rang Barclays on 10 March 2022. She said the call handler she spoke to did not 
provide her with the answers she sought, so she raised a complaint. Mrs I followed up this 
complaint via a letter dated 16 March 2022, which requested that Barclays didnt remove her 
overdraft limit and she provided reasons for this. She asked for a written response. Mrs I 
says that Barclays kept pushing back the response date for her complaint and they removed 
her overdraft on 19 April 2022, without resolving her complaint on the matter.
Barclays did not uphold Mrs Is complaint. They said in her original complaint (10 March 
2022), she was informed of the reasons they took the decision to remove her overdraft and 
she was told this decision wouldnt change in response to any complaints. They said she 
was also told that she could reduce her facility to a smaller amount to prevent the full 
removal from going ahead, both over the phone and in writing. Mrs I asked them to take 
another look at her complaint. 
Barclays responded and they said that the first time she brought this issue to them on 10 
March 2022, it was logged as a concern and as such these can be resolved verbally which 
was done on 10 March 2022 by the advisor explaining why the overdraft was being 
removed, and how she could appeal the decision. But upon receiving her letter dated 16 
March 2022, the issue was then handled as a complaint, as per their process. They said if 
Mrs I had called the lending team as the letter instructed her to provide additional 
information, they would have advised that if she didn't have any additional earnings outside 
of her current account than an appeal would be unlikely to succeed. Mrs I brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Is complaint. He said that the evidence shows that 
Barclays told Mrs I about the overdraft removal in February 2022 and explained what she 
should do to appeal the decision. And while Mrs I raised a complaint with Barclays, she 
didnt provide the requested information to their lending team to have the overdraft reviewed, 
so Barclays were within their rights to withdraw the overdraft as per the terms and conditions 
of the account. 
Mrs I asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said Barclays had singled her out and caused her a detriment by removing 
the overdraft granted more than 15 years ago (originally through a different company, before 
Barclays took over the running of the account) because she had made complaints about 
Barclays to our service, and she knows at least two individuals that have not used their 
overdraft arrangement for many years and their overdrafts have not been removed. She said 
the crux of the matter borders on integrity, inconsistencies and inaccuracies in Barclays 
response to her issues, including telephone conversations on 10 March 2022 and 27 April 
2022. Mrs I said that Barclays failed to provide her the alleged policy they are relying on and 
the terms and conditions on her account at the time the agreement was made.
Mrs I said that Barclays had not taken into account of her income which was swept 
automatically between her accounts every week, in addition to her paid income in her current 
account, which demonstrated she met the affordability criteria for the overdraft facility. She 
says Barclays at no time from when she originally opened the account and was approved for 
the overdraft, notified her of any changes of any variation of the terms and conditions. She 
said at no time did Barclays representatives tell her that the decision wouldnt change in 
response to any complaint. Mrs I said they did not respond to her complaint within eight 
weeks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs I has brought a separate complaint about the actions of Barclays to our 
service. But as our investigator explained to her, I will only be focusing on the issues 
surrounding the removal of her overdraft as part of my decision here. 
Mrs I has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mrs I has mentioned other individuals where they have had an overdraft for several years 
and Barclays have not removed their overdraft. But here, I can only focus on Mrs Is 
circumstances and how Barclays have treated her, as she is the sole person bringing this 
complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs I has said about Barclays not responding to her complaint in 8 
weeks. But Im satisfied that Barclays have sent the relevant letters when they have been 
unable to resolve a complaint within this timeframe. I say this as they have provided our 
service with a copy of a letter they sent Mrs I dated 11 May 2022, which states Were sorry 
that its taking longer than it should to give you a final response to your complaint. Were 
doing everything we can to resolve it as quickly as possible. The letter is addressed to the 
same address as her other letters that she received, so Im satisfied it was sent to the 
correct address. In addition, she is given her rights to our service on this letter: We expect 
to be able to resolve your complaint soon but you do have the right to ask the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. The enclosed leaflet tells you about how 
the Ombudsman can help and also includes their contact details. So although the final 
response was issued three days after this letter, Mrs I was told of her right to bring her 
complaint to our service in the correct timescales.
Ive considered what Mrs I has said about her being singled out and they have removed her 
overdraft because she has made complaints about them to our service. But Ive seen no 
evidence that this is the case. I directly asked Barclays about this through our investigator, 
and they have confirmed that the decision to remove Mrs Is overdraft was not linked to any 
previous complaints. I know Mrs I may not agree on this point, but Ive seen no evidence to 
prove the overdraft removal is a result of previous complaints.Id like to explain to Mrs I that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their overdraft policies and procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Barclays to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mrs I has said about not being provided Barclays policies. But Barclays 
are not required to make every internal policy public. There will be times where a policy 
could put their business operations at risk. An example of this would be their affordability 
criteria for their overdrafts. I say this as this is commercially sensitive information which 
Barclays are not required to share with Mrs I or even with our service. If this was in the 
public domain, it could be used by people to try and get around the criteria Barclays have in 
place to ensure that any lending is affordable and sustainable.
Barclays would have the information about Mrs Is income and outgoings with her account, 
and they should be aware of any sweep which involves accounts of hers, so Im persuaded 
that this would have been taken into account by Barclays, given that Mrs I said the sweep 
involves her current account. Mrs I says this demonstrates she meets the affordability criteria 
for the overdraft but given that the affordability criteria is not known outside of Barclays, I 
cant agree with her here.  
Ive considered what Mrs I has said about Barclays not informing her of any changes to the 
terms and conditions, such as a variation of the terms and conditions. I put this allegation to 
Barclays who confirmed to me that Mrs I is notified via her bank statements or letters they 
sent her informing her of changes to their terms and conditions. To evidence this, they sent 
me a letter they sent Mrs I dated April 2014. This letter was regarding a change to how they 
charge for overdrafts and includes the line The terms covering your overdraft and Personal 
Reserve will change too. So Im satisfied that they do inform her of changes to her terms 
and conditions. The letter signposted where she could find further information such as 
online, visiting a branch and on the phone. Barclays would not be required to send a new 
terms and conditions documents every time the terms and conditions changed. But a 
variance to the terms and conditions leading to the terms and conditions being updated 
would replace a previous version of the terms and conditions. It would not be reasonable for 
a company to be held to terms and conditions in this case 15 years or more earlier (based 
on how long Mrs I has said shes held her account), so Im satisfied that Barclays were 
entitled to refer to their terms and conditions at the time here (November 2020s terms and 
conditions). 
These contain a statement on page 16 which says Well give you at least 30 days notice for 
changes to your overdraft, and there is a section on page 21 which is titled Asking you to 
pay back your overdraft and says If you have an arranged overdraft, we can end it at any 
time and for any reason. Well give you at least 30 days written notice and ask you to pay it 
back. So here Im satisfied that Barclays can remove the overdraft for any reason as long as 
they gave her notice. This would include the reason that she has not used the overdraft limit 
in the last 12 months. But on this occasion they did give her notice and a chance to look at 
this again.
So Ive considered what happened when Mrs I rang Barclays on 10 March 2022 regarding 
this. The call handler says that what they need to do is to have a look at Mrs Is income 
coming in and her financial commitments. Mrs I tells the call handler this is delving into her 
private life, and it has nothing to do with her. She then asks the complaint handler to raise a 
complaint for her. The line disconnects and Mrs I rings back Barclays. The call handler starts 
to go through an income and expenditure with Mrs I, but Mrs I asks how that affects her 
overdraft. Mrs I asks if the call handler has reviewed the account that is automatically fed 
into the account and the call handler says she can see all of that and she explains that they 
need to get her up to date information in order to get another overdraft. The call handler attempts to transfer her to another team to help her with the overdraft. This takes Mrs I to 
security and she is asked to enter details, but the line shortly cuts off. 
Mrs Is letter dated 25 February is clear that if she feels she still needs an overdraft and she 
thinks the information theyve used is not up to date then they can look at it again. It is clear 
she would need to provide them with her current income and her likely future income. And 
she would need to provide her existing and future financial commitments, including any other 
borrowing and significant commitments. But Mrs I did not give her income when she was 
asked by two call handlers. She did not document this information on her letter to Barclays 
on 16 March 2022 either. So as she did not do what was required of her, the overdraft was 
removed. 
The letter was also clear that If one of the following takes place on the above account 
before 15 April 2022, we won't go ahead with the removal of your limit. One of these things 
was You ask us to reduce your limit. But Mrs I did not ask Barclays to reduce her overdraft 
limit and as she didnt provide Barclays with any extra income or expenditure details other 
than they could already see on her account, then Im persuaded that Barclays were 
reasonable to remove the overdraft entirely. Although Mrs I had made a complaint about the 
overdraft removal, it would not be reasonable for Barclays to leave the overdraft intact while 
they were investigating her complaint when she hadnt met the criteria set out in her letter on 
25 February 2022. So Im not persuaded they did anything wrong here by removing the 
overdraft when they did. 
Ive considered what Mrs I has said about the inaccuracies in Barclays response to her 
issues, including telephone conversations on 10 March 2022 and 27 April 2022. Im not 
persuaded that there were inaccuracies in the two telephone calls she had with Barclays on 
10 March 2022 or on 27 April 2022. The first call handler accesses the letter and reads it to 
her and confirms she needs to look at the income coming in and financial commitments. She 
did not imply that the letter was sent because of Mrs Is credit rating when she had accessed 
the letter. Mrs I asks to log a complaint on this call, the call handler summarises what she 
would put in the complaint, but Mrs I tells her that her understanding is not correct. It was 
when Mrs I was telling the call handler what to put in the complaint that the line was 
disconnected, so it was not clear at that point what Mrs Is wanted to include in her 
complaint, after she had told the call handler her understanding was not correct. So this is 
why Im persuaded there is confusion around the language used around a 
concern/complaint. 
But Im satisfied that it was clear what Mrs Is complaint was about from her letter she sent 
them dated 16 March 2022. I agree that there were a few inaccuracies in the letter dated 14 
May 2022 as Mrs I was not told on the phone that the decision wouldn't change in response 
to any complaint. And she wasnt told over the phone that she could reduce her overdraft 
facility to a smaller amount to prevent the full removal from going ahead. Although she 
wasnt told over the phone that the decision to remove the overdraft wouldnt change in 
response to a complaint, she wasnt told that it would change the decision to remove the 
overdraft either, so no expectation was set for her on this point. On the second point, while 
she wasnt told about the smaller overdraft limit on the phone, she was told about this in the 
letter dated 25 February 2022, but she did not ask for the overdraft to be reduced at all. 
In relation to the letter Barclays sent Mrs I on 20 May, again there are minor inaccuracies. 
Mrs I did ring the number on the letter, but the real reason why the appeal wasnt logged 
appears to be because Mrs I did not give them the information about her income and 
expenditure as opposed to her not ringing the lending team.  I agree with what they said 
about if Mrs I would have advised that if she didn't have any additional earnings outside of 
her current account than an appeal would be unlikely to succeed  as they had said they had 
already taken this information into consideration on her original letter on 25 February 2022. The complaint handler says that Mrs I agreed to the terms and conditions originally when 
she applied for the overdraft. But the reality is this was such a long time ago, and through a 
different company, that Barclays would be unlikely to have these terms and conditions now  
as they havent supplied these specific terms and conditions to us. 
It would have been more appropriate for the complaint handler to refer to the current terms 
and conditions and explain notices of variations. So while there were some inaccuracies in 
the letters, Im not persuaded that these would have made a difference to Mrs I retaining her 
overdraft. And Im not persuaded that this should be anything other than a minor frustration 
that there were some inaccuracies, therefore Im not persuaded that any compensation is 
warranted here. While a business may have included a few minor inaccuracies in their 
letters, it doesnt necessarily follow that we would always award compensation, especially 
when the impact of these inaccuracies should be minimal.
So I wont be asking Barclays to reinstate the £350 overdraft Mrs I had. Mrs I is aware of 
what the terms and conditions say since November 2020 as she has been told this by 
Barclays and our investigator and Ive documented this also. So as Barclays can remove an 
overdraft at any time, subject to notice, there would be nothing stopping them removing the 
overdraft again if I instructed them to reinstate this. 
But here, it would not be proportionate for me to ask Barclays to reinstate the overdraft 
anyway. I say this as the overdraft was removed in April 2022. Mrs Is financial 
circumstances may have changed since this time or Barclays criteria and appetite for lending 
may have changed since this time. Barclays have to ensure that the lending they make 
available to a customer is affordable and they have obligations to do this, so it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to ask them to reinstate the overdraft nearly one year after it was 
removed. And Im not persuaded they should have acted differently when Mrs I didnt give 
them the specific information that they asked for prior to the deadline. But Ive seen nothing 
which suggests the overdraft removal is permanent, so Mrs I may wish to apply for a new 
overdraft with them, which would be subject to approval. But it follows I dont require 
Barclays to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman