DRN-4044615
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited treated him unfairly by renewing 
his car insurance policy against his wishes.
What happened
Mr C had car insurance with Admiral and they sent him an auto-renewal notice in October 
2022. Mr C wasnt happy with the price offered for renewal and so said hed shop around, he 
says he made clear he didnt want the auto-renewal to go ahead.
Despite that, the policy was renewed. Admiral attempted to take payment for it on several 
occasions, but it didnt go through, so, they cancelled the policy. They informed Mr C about 
this and eventually passed the debt onto a third-party company to collect on their behalf.
Mr C wasnt happy with that. He says the policy renewed against his wishes, he felt 
harassed by the third-party company and that thered been a data protection breach  
because Admiral had no right to share his information.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They agreed Mr C had been clear in that he 
didnt want the policy to auto-renew, and hed suffered unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience as a result. The investigator recommended Admiral pay Mr C £250 in order to 
compensate him for that.
Admiral accepted the recommendation, but Mr C did not. He raised a number of concerns  
mainly around data protection  so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its helpful for me to begin by explaining that we dont always comment on or answer every 
point raised in a complaint. That isnt intended to be a discourtesy to either party and simply 
reflects the fact were less formal than the courts.
I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling in this matter, it has clearly upset him and he has 
advised of a medical condition which he says was exacerbated by it. But, I see it as being a 
relatively straightforward issue and we have to accept things sometimes go wrong  this is 
an issue of human error after all. What is important is how mistakes are put right.
Admiral were wrong to have auto-renewed Mr Cs policy, that is not in dispute here. It 
follows, to my mind, that they were wrong to have passed his details to a third-party for debt 
collection purposes. Mr C shouldnt have had the stress of being asked to pay money that he 
didnt rightfully owe, nor with the inconvenience of having to raise his concerns about what 
he had been through.
It's also the case that Admiral didnt adequately deal with the issue in the first instance, 
saying he hadnt asked for the auto-renewal to be cancelled. This only added to Mr Cs 
frustration.
But, in now agreeing to pay compensation for what happened, its for me to consider 
whether that compensation is reasonable, and it is. While Admiral have made the failings 
that Ive already outlined, they were quite quick in agreeing to cancel the policy and write-off 
what I shall call a perceived debt.
Overall, I consider £250 to be a fair amount for what has gone on here.
Turning to Mr Cs concerns around records management and data protection, the 
investigator made clear that is more the remit of the Information Commissioners Office. I 
also note that Mr C has put in a separate complaint to that office and so I think they are 
better placed to make any findings in that respect.
That is not to say Mr C hasnt suffered from whats happened, so Id like to assure him that 
Ive taken into account what the sharing of information has caused him in terms of distress 
and inconvenience. Its just that I think, especially given the above, it isnt my place to make 
a finding as to whether a technical breach of the General Data Protection Regulations has 
occurred  or whether any remedy in respect of data correction or deletion is needed. 
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to issue him compensation of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman