DRN-2835828
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy because Nationwide Building Society allowed transactions totalling almost 
£17,000 to leave his account which, he says, he didnt make or otherwise authorise and it 
has also unfairly recorded a CIFAS marker with the National Fraud Database. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr M says his mobile phone was lost or stolen on 21 December 2019, along with his 
Nationwide debit card and his logon details (including passwords) for his Nationwide 
mobile banking facility and an online gambling account. By the time he realised this  
less than 48-hours later  and reported the matter to Nationwide, 38 payments had been 
made from Mr Ms current account to the online gambling account and one debit card, 
contactless payment had occurred.
Nationwide refused to refund the payments because it considered Mr M had acted with 
gross negligence in failing to protect his mobile device and security details and/or it didnt 
consider it likely a fraudster was responsible for the disputed payments. It closed Mr Ms 
account and reported a CIFAS misuse of facility marker to the National Fraud Database.
Our investigator thought it was more likely than not Mr M had made the payments 
himself. And he didnt think Nationwide had unfairly refused to refund the money or 
reported the matter to CIFAS.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings, so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr M authorised the transactions thatve been disputed  and 
so, in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payments 
or gave consent for someone else to complete them. And where theres a dispute about 
what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
All but one of the disputed payments went to an online gambling merchant and Im 
satisfied its more likely than not they all went into the account Mr M set up a few days 
previously. But Mr M disputes having made, or consented, to these payments. He 
suggests he dropped his phone, without realising, and whoever found it was able to log 
into and pay money to his online gambling account because his debit card, gambling and 
mobile banking login details were all kept in his phone case. Mr M accepts Nationwides 
suggestion that keeping all this information together amounts to gross negligence and 
Im minded to agree. But, given everything Ive seen, I dont think its more likely than not 
a third party undertook the disputed transactions. I say that because:
oGiven the size and weight of his phone (including the case) I have some doubts that 
Mr M wouldnt have noticed it being lost in the way he describes.
oMr M says he has a passcode set on his phone and he hasnt said a record of which 
was kept with the phone. So its not clear to me how a fraudster would have known, 
or been able to guess, the passcode in order to unlock and access Mr Ms mobile 
banking and online gambling facilities. But the records provided by the society and 
the online gambling company indicate Mr Ms mobile banking facility was accessed 
while the phone was out of his possession. The activity on the current account 
include checking the recent and pending transactions. But there were no apparent 
attempts to transfer money out in order for a fraudster to derive some benefit from 
having access to his current account. Mr M says this wouldnt have been possible 
because the fraudster wouldnt have had his card reader. But a fraudster, unfamiliar 
with Nationwide accounts and mobile banking facility, may not have known the 
process for setting up a new payee, before trying to steal Mr Ms money  not all 
current account providers require a card reader when setting up a new payee.
oMr Ms online gambling account was accessed using the same IP address as was 
used to log into his mobile banking facility during the time Mr M says his phone was 
not in his possession. 
oMr M does not dispute having set up an account with the online gambling merchant 
less than a week before the disputed transactions occurred. And the gambling 
merchant has confirmed that a total of £20,000 was credited to his account using his 
Nationwide debit card between 16 and 23 December 2019. Also that £5,300 worth of 
winnings was paid back to this card  which show as two transactions on his account 
statements on 17 and 20 December. Online gambling merchants usually only pay 
winnings back to the account or debit card from which the credit payments originated, 
and that seems to be the case here too. In such circumstances, an individual who 
may have got access to Mr Ms gambling accounts would have difficulty recovering 
any winnings.
oA fraudster could have used (or tried to use) Mr Ms debit card to buy goods or 
services using the contactless facility and, thereby, derived a direct benefit from 
being in possession of his debit card. But Nationwides records suggest there was 
only one contactless payment during the disputed period of time  a £4.80 travel 
charge.
Mr M tried to use his replacement debit card but it was declined which, undoubtedly 
caused him some inconvenience. This was because, after issuing the new card, 
Nationwide finalised its investigation and decided to close Mr Ms account without notice 
which would likely have resulted in his new debit card being blocked too. I think the 
society was entitled to end its relationship with Mr M in the way it did, as provided for in 
the account terms and conditions and given what Ive said already above about the 
disputed transactions. I also note the societys record suggest it called Mr M on 
31 December 2019 to try and share its findings, but left a message and sent a letter after being unsuccessful in contacting him. The letter confirmed all of Mr Ms accounts would 
be closed immediately  it looks like this eventually happened on 9 January, which was a 
slight delay, possibly to allow a direct debit to leave the account and Mr Ms salary to be 
credited. Its unfortunate Mr M didnt receive the societys letter and instead had to be 
told about his fraud claim being declined and account being closed during a phone call 
that took place in branch when he, perhaps did not have the privacy he would have 
preferred. And I note hes suggested Nationwides decisions about the disputed 
transactions and the account closure amount to discrimination. But, overall, for the 
reasons Ive set out, I think Nationwide acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
Our investigator outlined the level of evidence required for Nationwide to load a CIFAS 
marker, so I wont repeat this in detail. But, in summary, Nationwide need to show there 
were reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime has been committed or 
attempted and it has clear, relevant and rigorous evidence relating to this. Given everything 
Ive already said about the disputed transactions, Im satisfied Nationwide fairly reported the 
CIFAS marker and I cant fairly instruct the society to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman