DRN-3768291
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed his accounts after returning a 
cheque that was deposited. Hes also unhappy that it recorded information about this with a 
fraud prevention agency.
What happened
In September 2020 a cheque was deposited into Mr Ls account after he sold some goods 
online. Mr L couldnt access the funds on the same day as the deposit, but the following day, 
the funds from the cheque were returned. Mr L said that he spoke to someone at Santander 
prior to this who told him this wouldnt happen. Santander then blocked Mr Ls account and 
asked him for more information about the cheque.
Mr L complained about this to Santander, saying that he told them why the cheque had been 
paid into the account and it had told him that this wouldnt happen. Santander said that it had 
acted fairly though. So Mr L brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into this and felt that Santander were entitled to return the cheque 
and acted fairly in blocking Mr Ls account. But they felt that Santander hadnt acted fairly in 
closing the account. They said that Santander should have asked for further information 
about the situation before taking the action it did. Had it done so, they felt that they would 
have seen that Mr L had a plausible version of events. So while they said that Santander 
was entitled to close the account  they felt that it should pay Mr L £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
After this, Santander and Mr L both raised additional points. In particular, Mr L mentioned 
that Santander had recorded information about him with a fraud prevention agency. Our 
investigator looked into this and didnt feel that it was fair for Santander to record this 
information as it didnt meet the required standard in order to do so. So they said that 
Santander should remove this and restated that it should pay Mr L £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience here.
Santander raised some initial concerns about the investigators view but eventually accepted 
this and agreed to remove the marker and pay the compensation. Mr L didnt accept this 
though and said that the information recorded with the fraud prevention agency has caused 
him substantial damage for more than two years. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Santander and Mr L have now agreed that its fair to remove the information held with 
the fraud prevention agency here. So I wont address that in any detail here, other than to 
say that I think its fair that Santander removes this too. 
Like our investigator, I also dont think itd be fair or helpful to tell Santander that it needs to 
reopen the accounts. They have now been closed for some time and Mr L has confirmed 
that he had (and has) alternative banking arrangements.
So the issue thats outstanding is in relation to the compensation for the impact this situation 
has had on Mr L. Firstly, given the situation here, I think it was unfair that Santander closed 
Mr Ls accounts immediately and without notice. Closing the account immediately like this 
was clearly very surprising and upsetting for Mr L. Had Santander provided notice of closure 
or asked for more information about the situation  its likely that much of this surprise and 
upset could have been avoided.
Then Ive thought about the impact of what Santander reported to the fraud prevention 
agency. Everyone now agrees that Santander shouldnt have recorded this  and its clear 
that this will have caused Mr L distress and inconvenience. So its only right that Santander 
compensates Mr L for that.
It's agreed to pay £200 and I think thats a fair amount. Our investigator has asked Mr L what 
it is he wants to resolve this complaint  but Mr L hasnt replied or provided any further 
information about this. So in the absence of any further information about the impact here - 
Ive considered on everything that Mr L has provided us up to this date. Having done so, I 
still think £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused him.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc should remove the information its recorded with the fraud prevention 
agency about Mr L and pay him £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman