DRN-3651535
The complaint
Miss H and Mr R complain that they were misled by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
to believe that they would be able to get a much higher mortgage than they in fact were able 
to get. As a result, they sold their home, had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) and 
were unable to port their mortgage product to a property they wanted to buy.
What happened
Miss H and Mr R had a mortgage with Halifax. In early 2021 they were thinking of moving 
home and spoke to a Halifax mortgage adviser to see what mortgage they would be able to 
get. Since this discussion, Halifax produced a Mortgage Promise. Then at the beginning of 
May, Miss H and Mr R contacted Halifax again to update the Mortgage Promise as they had 
a property in mind to purchase and had more information about their income. The Mortgage 
Promise was updated, and Miss H and Mr R were told that on a short-term mortgage, they 
could borrow up to £236,000 and on a long term up to £278,000. Miss H and Mr R also 
received information about porting and that they could sell their house and port their 
mortgage if they bought another property on which Halifax would grant a mortgage within 
three months of the sale of their own. Otherwise, they would have to pay an ERC of £2,493. 
In July Miss H and Mr R sold their property and paid an ERC.
In September Miss H and Mr R contacted Halifax to say that they had an offer accepted on a 
property and wanted to proceed with a mortgage application and the adviser went through 
the figures including the income figures. But the mortgage that Miss H and Mr R were able to 
get was substantially below what they expected from the Mortgage Promise - £181,190 - and 
so were unable to buy the property they wanted to buy and were unable to port the mortgage 
which meant they couldnt recoup the ERC.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld because of ambiguity 
on the first call in March 2021 as a result of which  Miss H and Mr R could have expected to 
have got a mortgage in line with the Mortgage Promise and that they should be 
compensated for their loss of expectation of £500. Miss H and Mr R also asked to listen to a 
number of calls that were significant to this complaint. But there were delays in obtaining 
these and making them available to Miss H and Mr R and our investigator recommended 
further compensation of £125. Miss H and Mr R disagreed saying that they wouldnt accept 
this settlement without payment of the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint arises from the information that Miss H and Mr R were given in a phone call 
with a Halifax adviser in March 2021.The purpose of the call was that Miss H and Mr R were 
looking some guidance about what they could afford to buy if they moved house. From 
listening to the call, I understand that at this stage of the process the adviser was going 
through a limited assessment of Miss Hs and Mr Rs income, outgoings, and credit 
commitments to come up with a figure. I appreciate that at this stage of the process the 
adviser is reliant on the information provided by the customers as she wasnt scrutinising any 
documentation. 
I recognise that Miss H and Mr R are a straightforward couple answering the questions 
posed to them by the adviser. The difficulty was with Mr Rs self-employed income. The 
adviser wanted to know Mr Rs total income as he was self-employed. Miss H and Mr R were 
unsure whether this meant his profit or his gross income to the business and the adviser 
asked for his total income which in the context of this discussion meant for Miss H and Mr R 
the gross revenue of his business.  When Miss H and Mr R queried this, as a broker they 
used previously had used Mr Rs profit for the assessment, the adviser assured them that it 
was income not profit that she wanted and that their previous broker may have used the 
profit figure because other lenders had different requirements.
The source of this complaint is really in that discussion which I have summarised. Assessing 
self-employed income can be complicated, as Miss H and Mr R discovered later when they 
applied for a mortgage and Halifax has shown us that complexity when it provided its 
procedure for keying in self-employed income at application stage.
But this wasnt a mortgage application. It was a pre-application request for guidance on 
affordability and produced misleading information because Mr Rs self-employed income 
was overstated. There is an onus on the customer where no documentation is produced to 
produce the right information. But if the customer is confused and asks for direction, the 
adviser should give that direction even if only to stress that this isnt a straightforward 
calculation and to raise warnings that would at least have managed Miss H and Mr Rs 
expectations.  
Our investigator has referred to an ambiguity in the discussion. I agree there was an 
ambiguity that could have been resolved by the adviser. The adviser should have simply 
been clearer in the information she required from Miss H and Mr R and clarified matters so 
that they werent confused and so that a more realistic Mortgage Promise was produced. For 
that reason, I believe that this complaint should be upheld. I note that Halifax agreed with our 
investigator that there was ambiguity and told us I think we should have clarified what was 
meant by total gross income taking into account that Mr R was self-employed.  When Miss 
H and Mr R later found out that the Mortgage Promise overstated what they could in fact 
borrow, they were reasonably very upset by that. 
After they got The Mortgage Promise Miss H and Mr R made a number of decisions 
including selling their house, paying the ERC and  and hoping to port and recoup the ERC 
but were unable to do so as the mortgage they could get fell below the amount they needed 
and what they expected to get from their discussions with the Halifax adviser. The question I 
have to consider is what compensation is due to Miss H and Mr R. 
Its fair to say that The Mortgage Promise contains warnings that this isnt a commitment to 
Halifax to provide a mortgage to the amount requested including:
You should not enter into a legal commitment to buy a property until you have received and 
are happy with the full mortgage offer
AndThe mortgage promise has been based on certain assumptions which may change once 
you apply for a mortgage and we have fully assessed your needs and circumstances. This 
may mean that the amount available shown in this promise is subject to change 
Miss H and Mr R sold their house but their ability to recoup the ERC depended on them 
getting a mortgage offer in the future and the Mortgage Promise warned them about relying 
on that document as it didnt mean that they would get the mortgage offer they wanted. 
Although Im sympathetic to Miss H and Mr R they were essentially selling their house in the 
hope of getting a satisfactory mortgage offer but without a guarantee that they would get 
one. Halifax wasnt guaranteeing that they would get a mortgage offer in the terms of the 
Mortgage Promise and I cant fairly penalise Halifax as if it had. If Miss H and Mr R didnt get 
the mortgage offer they wanted, they would have to pay and not recoup an ERC and thats 
what happened, and it seems to me that the ERC was fairly due to Halifax. An ERC is not an 
extra fee that Halifax levies but is meant to cover the cost of a customer redeeming a 
mortgage early so I cant say that it was unfairly charged.
My view is that Miss H and Mr R should be compensated for their disappointment but not 
their financial loss. I believe that the figure of £500 represents fair compensation for that 
together with £125 as compensation for the difficulties Miss H and Mr R had in accessing the 
phone calls they requested from Halifax.
.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Miss H and Mr R £625.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay Miss H and Mr R £625.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman