DRN-2768524
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) didnt carry out its request to switch its accounts properly  and that this 
resulted in L being unable to access its money.
Ls director, Mr L, brings this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
L held a current account and a savings account with Yorkshire Bank. Mr L decided to move 
Ls business elsewhere, so he opened a new account with another bank and asked for the 
Yorkshire Bank account to be switched.
Mr L says he contacted Yorkshire Bank by phone and asked for the balance of Ls savings 
account to be moved across into the current account before the switch. The switch took 
place on 10 December 2019 and Ls current account was closed. But only the current 
account balance was transferred to the new account. Mr L says he had no access to internet 
banking and the nearest branch was 60 miles away  and that this meant he was unable to 
access the money that remained in the savings account.
 
On 27 December 2019 Mr L phoned Yorkshire Bank to say the switch had failed because 
the savings hadnt been transferred to the new account. He says he asked Yorkshire Bank to 
either transfer this to Ls new account using the account details registered on the switch, or 
to send a bankers draft via recorded delivery to the address registered on the account. He 
says they refused to do this  and that no alternatives were provided.
On 31 January 2020 L sent Yorkshire Bank an invoice for late payment of the funds held in 
its savings account. This invoice included a 4% admin fee and 8.5% daily interest. On 25 
August 2020 L sent Yorkshire Bank a letter of notice before action, together with a copy of 
the invoice, which included details of the nominated account into which the funds were to be 
transferred. 
In response to Mr Ls complaint Yorkshire Bank said theyd done nothing wrong, so our 
investigator looked into what had happened. He was satisfied theyd made Mr L aware funds 
couldnt be transferred without a signed written request  and that he hadnt provided this 
until 25 August 2020. But the investigator felt they couldve transferred the account balance 
when they received the notice before action and invoice. He thought they should pay L £250 
for the inconvenience caused, but he didnt think they needed to pay interest or an admin 
fee.
Yorkshire Bank disagreed with the investigators view. They said their letter dated 3 
December 2019 made it clear the savings account wouldnt be switched - and that they 
didnt receive a signed written instruction from Mr L authorising them to transfer the balance 
and close the savings account. They said this requirement protects both parties, by making 
sure the bank only acts on instructions received from individuals who are authorised to 
operate the account. They said the signature on the notice before action also didnt match 
the one held on their records.
  
Mr L said Yorkshire Bank had failed to move its funds to a single transferrable location and 
appeared to have lost the records of the calls hed made. He said they claimed to have been 
unable to validate him against the address to which they were sending monthly paper 
statements  and that they had no excuse for not paying the invoice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Yorkshire Bank have provided a copy of their letter to L dated 3 December 2019, which says 
theyd received notification of a request to switch the current account to another bank. Im 
satisfied this letter made it clear that separate arrangements would need to be made to 
transfer any linked savings accounts.
Mr L says he instructed Yorkshire Bank over the phone in December 2019 to transfer the 
savings account balance into the current account prior to the switch. Yorkshire Bank say 
they have no record of this  theyve provided a copy of their calls log. The log shows two 
calls from Mr L in September 2019, then no further calls until 27 December 2019, when he 
phoned about the balance of the savings account not having transferred. I think its more 
likely than not that if Mr L had instructed Yorkshire Bank to transfer the funds thered be a 
record of this in the calls log. So Im unable to say they made any error here.
Ive listened to the recording of the call made on 27 December 2019, when Mr L discovered 
the savings account hadnt been switched. Mr L wanted to know the quickest and easiest 
way to get the money from the Yorkshire Bank savings account to Ls new account. The call 
handler advised Mr L that hed need to send a letter requesting closure of the account - and 
theyd send him a cheque. Ive seen no evidence that Mr L did this. But Im satisfied 
Yorkshire Bank had provided him with a fair and reasonable means of accessing Ls funds 
without the need for internet access or a visit to the branch.
On 31 January 2020, L sent Yorkshire Bank an invoice for the balance of the savings 
account plus 8.5% daily interest and 4% admin fee. Mr L feels they had no excuse for not 
paying this invoice, which included details of Ls new account to allow for electronic 
payment. Yorkshire Bank say they hadnt received a clear written instruction signed by an 
individual who was authorised to operate the account  and that this is a necessary 
requirement to protect both the customer and the bank. 
Having considered the representations made by both parties on this point, I dont consider 
Yorkshire Bank to have acted unreasonably by declining to pay the invoice at this point. I say 
this because the terms and conditions of their business accounts make it clear that 
instructions can only be given by the person(s) theyve been notified of as having authority to 
operate the account. As the invoice didnt include a signature, Yorkshire Bank wouldnt have 
been able to verify that it was a genuine instruction from someone with the appropriate 
authority. Im not persuaded that the inclusion of the business address confirmed it was sent 
by Mr L.
 
However, the letter before action dated 25 August 2020 included Mr Ls signature. Yorkshire 
Bank have said they were unsure what he wanted them to do  that he appeared to be 
asking them to transfer the full invoice amount to the account detailed on the invoice but 
there werent sufficient funds in the account. Theyve also said that, in any event, the 
signature on the letter didnt match the one held on their records. Im satisfied that Mr L had made it clear he wanted the balance of the savings account 
moved to the nominated account. I note that hed nominated the same account details used 
when the current account was switched. Although I agree that the specimen signature held 
on Yorkshire Banks records doesnt match the one on Ls letter of notice before action, Im 
not persuaded this was the reason why the funds werent transferred at that time. Im aware 
that signatures can and do often vary  and that in this case the second signature was 
provided three and a half years after the first. And Ive seen no evidence that Yorkshire Bank 
questioned the authenticity of this at the time. 
The subsequent email correspondence Yorkshire Bank have provided indicates they 
wouldve transferred the account balance on receipt of emailed confirmation from Mr L. The 
evidence shows he didnt confirm this because he felt they should transfer the full amount 
shown on the invoice, rather than just the account balance. Im satisfied Yorkshire Bank 
couldve transferred the savings account balance at that time, leaving the matter of the 
admin fee and daily interest to be resolved as part of Ls complaint. I think L should be 
compensated for the inconvenience this caused. Im satisfied that £250 is fair compensation 
in the circumstances. 
Mr L thinks Yorkshire Bank should also pay an admin fee of 4% and daily interest at 8.5%. 
Theyd offered to send the balance of the savings account to him by cheque, on receipt of a 
letter asking to close the savings account. I consider this fair and reasonable, as it avoided 
the need for Mr L to provide identification to his local branch in order to withdraw the funds. 
Ive seen no evidence that he wrote to them before sending the invoice, so Im not 
persuaded that he was required to undertake any additional admin here. Yorkshire Bank 
have confirmed that the funds have continued to accrue interest whilst in the savings 
account. For these reasons I dont consider it appropriate for me to direct Yorkshire Bank to 
pay an admin fee or daily interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank PLC 
to transfer the current balance of Ls savings account ending xxxx9975 to the nominated 
account ending xxxx4173 and pay L £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman