DRN-3538954
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling Bank) didnt reimburse a cash 
withdrawal that she says didnt dispense correctly.
What happened
Mrs B is a customer of Starling Bank. In September 2021, she says she tried to withdraw 
money from a cash machine. The cash machine was connected to a third-party bank branch. 
She says she attempted to withdraw £130, but the machine only gave her £70. She noted at 
the time that the orientation of one of the notes given was different to the rest.
Mrs B says she checked her Starling Bank app and it told her she had withdrawn the £130 
she initially wanted. So, Mrs B says she spoke to the branch manager at the third-party bank 
who told her she needed to contact her own bank.
Mrs B says she contacted Starling Bank through the online chat function on her app. She 
says Starling Bank told her she needed to wait 8 days and if the transaction hadnt corrected 
itself by then, she could contact them back and theyll raise a chargeback. Mrs B did so and 
£60 was later credited into her account.
In October 2021, Starling Bank told Mrs B that based on the information they received they 
think the cash was dispensed correctly. And so, they debited her account of the £60.
Mrs B complained to Starling Bank. Starling Bank explained that due to the evidence 
provided by the machine operator, which was also shared with Mrs B, they had exhausted all 
options available to them through the MasterCard chargeback scheme. They say they 
explained to Mrs B at the time that the merchant had 45 days to contest the refund through 
the chargeback scheme.
Mrs B, unhappy with Starling Banks response, referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator found that Starling Bank didnt need to do anything further. She explained that 
having reviewed the machine operators report, it shows the remaining funds within the 
machine after Mrs Bs transaction. The investigator believed it to be reconciled and doesnt 
show any remaining funds within the machine. So, she concluded that she hadnt seen any 
evidence to suggest the cash machine hadnt completed the requested transaction of £130 
correctly.
The investigator also found that Starling Bank had acted fairly when responding to Mrs Bs 
chargeback request.
Mrs B, unhappy with the investigators view, requested for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide on.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 May 2022 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint. In that decision I said:
Here, the main dispute is whether the cash machine dispensed the correct amount of cash. 
The Payment services regulations say that, it is for the payment service provider to prove 
that the payment transaction was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the 
payment service providers accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some 
other deficiency in the service provided by the payment service provider..
So, the main question I need to consider is whether the cash withdrawal did or didnt process 
correctly.
Ive considered the information provided by Starling Bank. Starling Bank has provided 
information they received from the machine operator, and they have also shared this with 
Mrs B. This shows the withdrawal Mrs B made. It shows a withdrawal of £130 was made. It 
also shows the amount of money that was in the cash machine right before Mrs Bs 
withdrawal and how much was remaining straight after her transaction. It suggests the 
amount remaining was £130 less.
But this information on its own isnt enough for me to say that the transaction processed 
correctly and with no errors.
Through the investigator, Ive asked Starling Bank for additional information, including 
whether any cash was found in the cash machines purge bin and whether the machine 
balanced at the end of the day. A purge bin is a container within the cash machine where 
returned cash is held until the machine is reviewed by a technician. Starling Bank said it did 
not reach out further to the cash machine provider as they believe the evidence provided 
was satisfactory and would not be required to give purge bin information. I also asked them 
to confirm whether there were any reported issues with the cash machine around the time of 
the transaction in question. Starling Bank responded saying the only error they could see 
was an Auth Declined due to issuer, but they believe this was not on the transaction being 
disputed about.
Having reviewed the information Starling Bank relied on, I can see the Auth Declined is in 
relation to an attempted transaction moments after Mrs Bs transaction. The attempted 
transaction matches the same card used in Mrs Bs transaction and it was for £60.
Mrs B says the machine dispensed £70. She says she noted at the time the orientation of 
one of the notes dispensed was different to the rest (portrait, instead of landscape). She 
says that when she received her dispensed money, she assumed she might have incorrectly 
requested the wrong amount and so placed her card back into the machine to withdraw an 
additional £60, but was told she had insufficient funds. The attempted withdrawal for an 
additional £60 corroborates the information Starling Bank had provided. Mrs B says she 
raised this with the third-party branch manager of the bank the cash machine was attached 
to, and was told she needed to contact her own bank.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the machine was tampered with in any way. And in any 
case, this seems unlikely as Mrs B received some funds from the machine. A cash trap, or 
similar, would likely collect all the dispensed cash, not a portion. 
Starling Bank has confirmed Mrs B has not made similar claims previously. 
Im persuaded by Mrs Bs testimony. The information suggests Mrs B attempted to withdraw 
the same amount which is in dispute moments after the transaction. She recollects the 
orientation of one of the notes not being in line with how notes dispense normally from a 
cash machine. And Starling Bank hasnt provided evidence to suggest Mrs B has made 
similar claims previously.With all this in mind, I dont think Starling Bank acted fairly here. I accept its possible that 
things happened as Starling Bank believes it did. But, the regulations say it is for the 
payment services provider to prove that the payment transaction occurred correctly and was 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency. From the information 
Starling Bank have provided, Im not satisfied they have been able to prove the transaction 
occurred correctly here. And in any event Im looking at what is fair and reasonable. On 
balance, I think its more likely that the cash didnt dispense correctly.
I set out what I intended to instruct Starling Bank to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mrs B didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Starling Bank responded and said they agree to settle the complaint in line with my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Starling Bank agreed with my provisional decision and Mrs B didnt respond, I see no 
reason to depart from its conclusions.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied that Starling Bank had a reasonable basis to 
hold Mrs B responsible for £60 of this disputed payment. It should: 
1. Refund Mrs B with the further £60 of this disputed withdrawal.
2. Pay simple interest of eight per cent per annum on the refund in (1) from the date of 
the debit to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Starling Bank Limited should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman