DRN-4054010
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for 
accidental damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J contacted QIC when a glass roof pane shattered. He said he thought it might be heat 
related. QIC was unable to properly log the claim at that time, but said someone would 
phone Mr J. A few days later, Mr J phoned again as he hadnt heard anything further. Mr J 
briefly confirmed the details of the claim. QIC said someone would phone him. 
QIC then sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Mr J told the surveyor he thought a door 
slamming earlier in the day might have caused the roof glass to shatter. QIC declined the 
claim for the roof as it thought the damage was likely to be heat related. When Mr J disputed 
this, QIC sent another surveyor, who also thought it might be heat related.
When Mr J complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
there wasnt evidence to show the damage was caused by something identifiable, which was 
a requirement for the claim to be accepted as accidental damage. He said it was reasonable 
for QIC to decline the claim.
As Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
For a claim to be accepted for accidental damage to glass, the policy said it needed to 
happen at a specific time, not be deliberate and be caused by something external and 
identifiable. 
Mr J initially said he thought the glass might have shattered due to heat, as it was a very hot 
day. He later said he thought it might have been the result of a door below the shattered 
panel slamming earlier in the day. Two surveyors visited. The first surveyor said the claim 
should be declined due to Thermal Movement of the glass. All other panel still intact. 
The second surveyor said:
The incident was totally fortuitous as far as the customer is concerned. There are no
underlying issues with the item or the glass. It may have shattered (as can be common in 
glazing) due to expansion in the heat, there is no way of our surveyor proving anything other 
than an unknown, fortuitous incident.
I note that QICs internal notes said it declined the claim because There is no accidental 
damage  identifiable one-off event with external force of impact. I didnt see anything in the 
policy wording that said there needed to be an impact, which I take to mean something 
hitting the glass, for a claim to be accepted.
When QIC wrote to Mr J about his complaint, it said the damage wasnt consistent with an 
identifiable event. However, I note what Mr J described when he first registered the claim 
was that it was a very hot day and he thought this might be why the glass had shattered. So, 
I think there was an identifiable event, which was the specific hot temperature on that day. 
Im aware QIC told this service the second surveyor highlighted that the damage is likely 
due to expansion in the heat during the summer months. It also pointed to an exclusion that 
said it didnt cover:
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:

Exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions.
In my view that doesnt fairly represent what the second surveyor said. The surveyor said It 
may have shattered (as can be common in glazing) due to expansion in the heat. There 
was no reference to this being over a period of time. As QIC is aware, Mr J said there were 
hot conditions on the day the glass shattered. I havent seen evidence that currently 
persuades me that it was fair for QIC to rely on an exclusion for a gradually operating cause. 
I dont think what Mr J described or what the surveyors said suggested it was a gradual 
event. 
I should also note that Im aware that there has also been focus on Mr J saying the glass 
shattered due to a door slamming. I dont currently think I need to consider this in order to 
make a fair and reasonable decision, as I think there is sufficient evidence that the claim was 
covered by the policy.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think Mr J and Mrs J have been caused 
inconvenience by how their claim and complaint was dealt with. Mr J has also explained 
issues such as the impact on the heat in their home due to the glass panel not being 
replaced. As a result, I currently intend to say QIC should pay £100 compensation to 
recognise the impact on them.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 April 2023. Both parties replied before that date and agreed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my view on how this complaint 
should be dealt with and Im aware that both parties have agreed with my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
QIC should settle the claim for the chattered glass pane and pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle the claim for the shattered glass pane.Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman