DRN-2978223
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) investigated a claim that had been 
made against his motor insurance policy without notifying him of it.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
Mr M contacted Aviva, as his policy neared the end of its term, to check the cost to renew his 
motor insurance policy and so he could compare it against other quotes. He was informed by 
Aviva that there had been a claim recorded against it from a third-party during the term of the 
policy.
Mr M said he had never had an accident and had no idea there had been a claim made 
against him.
Mr M complained to Aviva that it had never informed him about the claim against him and he 
wanted the claim removed so that he could get a lower price on his insurance. He called 
Aviva several times, but they did not get back to him as agreed.
Aviva said it had informed him of the claim and had sent him a letter, an email and had 
spoken to him but Mr M said that he had not received anything or spoken to them.
As Mr M was not happy with Aviva he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold up the complaint. They looked in to the case and didnt find 
Aviva at fault as there was evidence of contact by phone, email and letter.
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at this in two parts. 
Was Mr M made aware of the claim against him ?
Mr M said that he contacted Aviva on several dates in March 2021, initially to talk about his 
motor insurance policy renewal prices and then to make his complaint about an incident 
being recorded against him without his knowldege.
Avivas records confirm that Mr M made contact with it on the dates that he states and in 
addition Aviva had records of contact with him just before these dates.
Aviva provided evidence that it had sent a letter to make Mr M aware that an incident had 
been reported to it by a third-party. This was sent to Mr Ms address. Aviva also provided a 
phone recording of contact made from Mr Ms phone number in response to its letter where 
he confirmed he had been involved in the incident, and there was no external damage to 
either car. An email was received by Aviva two days after this call, from Mr Ms email 
address, in which photos of his car were attached. 
Mr M said he did not receive a letter from Aviva, that he never made a call to Aviva in 
response to the letter in which he confirmed he was aware of the incident or emailed Aviva 
with pictures of his car. 
I reviewed the evidence which include copies of the correspondence that was sent by post 
and email, the emails received by Aviva from Mr Ms email address, and the call recordings 
that came in from Mr Ms number. 
I think that on the balance of probability it is unlikely that Mr M didnt receive any of the 
correspondence about the above incident as both the letter and email were addressed 
exactly the same as all other correspondence that was received by Mr M.  
The evidence provided in the phone recordings from Mr Ms number confirms that he 
accepted that an incident had taken place. As there has been no evidence produced to 
support Mr Ms claim that the phone call from his number was made by someone else, I 
have to base my decision on the evidence available and in this case I think the phone call 
recording is from Mr M. 
Therefore there is nothing to suggest that Mr M was not made aware by Aviva of the claim 
by the third-party that an incident had taken place. I believe that Aviva took reasonable steps 
to make Mr M aware of the claim made against him.
Investigation by Aviva of the alleged incident
Mr Ms policy with Aviva allows for it to look at any claim made against him as the policy 
holder. As the evidence suggests that Mr M accepted that an incident had taken place, 
although I accept that Mr M disagrees. I think its reasonable that Aviva investigated the 
claim against him.
Therefore, although I understand that Mr M will be disappointed, I dont uphold his complaint 
as I think Aviva took reasonable steps to make him aware of the claim by the third-party and 
it was fair for it to investigate the claim.
I have seen in the evidence that the third-party claim has now been closed and Aviva 
recorded this claim as a notification only and this has not affected Mr Ms no claims discount. 
It has also provided Mr M with information on how to obtain proof of this should he wish to 
show it to his current insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sally-Ann HardingOmbudsman