DRN-3189165
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that she was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of her Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
make investments within the scheme including a discretionary managed portfolio and a 
Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mrs M is represented by a 
claims management company (CMC) in this complaint.
What happened
In mid 2013 Mrs M worked in healthcare aged 51, earning about £11,000pa and didnt own 
her own home or any other savings or investments  other than two pensions with Aviva and 
Standard Life. Her CMC says she had a low attitude to risk. She was cold-called before 
meetings took place at her home to discuss transferring her pensions elsewhere, but the 
destination investments were not explained at that time  other than that they would do 
much better than her existing plan and she could access the money when required.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mrs Ms pension, on 30 August 2013 a new employer 
was incorporated; named after the road in which she lives. Mrs M would later have signed an 
employment contract with that company, and on 4 September 2013 Mrs M signed terms of 
business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for the 
purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
On that same day a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mrs Ms new employer with her 
as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The fee to set up the 
scheme was £750+VAT, followed by £500+VAT annually. It was registered with HMRC. On 
26 September 2013 CGL then requested a transfer of Mrs Ms Aviva (and presumably the 
Standard Life) policy using forms Mrs M had signed.
We know that around this time an introducer firm working with CMIM (Your Choice Pensions 
or YCP) sent letters to prospective candidates for the TRG investment and CMIMs 
Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service. We dont have Mrs Ms copy but we know 
these letters said:
Please find enclosed written advice on your proposed investment into commercial property in 
Cape Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
under your instruction for your consideration.
CMIM has sent us a copy of what the enclosed written advice  a so-called dear Trustee 
letter - would have said. The letter does not refer to Mrs M by name and mentions that the 
business has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with 
advice that it understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and 
furthermore, the TRG investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort.
You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their
investment. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification carefullyWe have 
not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities and accordingly are not 
providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such 
investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you seek independent 
financial advice
Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personal 
circumstances, which we have not assessed.
Standard Life transferred £3,926 to CGL on 9 March 2014. It seems Aviva took some time to 
make Mrs Ms transfer because it was not until 19 September 2014 that Aviva sent £26,540 
to CGL. CGL notes that on 9 July Mrs M returned a signed letter giving investment 
instructions. Again we have seen copies of these letters in other cases, which explicitly state 
that advice has been obtained and considered from CMIM on the proposed investments; and 
that the trustee member believes CMIM to be appropriately qualified to assess the suitabiltiy 
of that investment for the SSAS under s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995.CGL wrote back to Mrs M on 10 October 2014 to confirm receipt of her investment 
instruction and that a total of £8,358 had been invested in the Llana Beach Hotel resort of 
TRG (through an agreement for sale of membership in a UK company limited by guarantee), 
and £15,400 into CMIMs DFM arrangement.
The agreement for sale shows a special discount was offered on the purchase, paid back to 
investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa for a maximum period of the first two years  after 
which rental income was expected to be payable when the resort opened. The UK limited 
company had entered into separate contracts with developers to build the property, and to 
pay a third party to manage it.
In September 2014 TRG began paying a regular monthly income of about £36 into Mrs Ms 
SSAS, but this stopped in January 2016. There were some credits of £355 and £650 from 
Greyfriars LLP in July and August 2017 and then quarterly income from TRG of between 
£30-£60 then resumed from October 2017. The last such payment I can see being made is 
for February 2019.
By March 2015 Mrs M seems to have been advised by Organic Investment Management to 
switch the £15,067 she by then had in CMIMs DFM to Organic  and add another £4,024 
from the SSAS bank account. Organic subsequently failed and Mrs Ms remaining money is 
now managed by Philip J Milton & Company in a separate SIPP. By April 2018 Mrs M still 
had £18,978 with Organic and £8,358 in TRG, with a minimal amount in the SSAS bank 
account.
Mrs Ms CMC complained in August 2019 that CMIMs advice had been unsuitable. CMIM 
didnt respond directly to the complaint so the CMC referred it to our service. CMIM has 
made a number of submissions on this and similar complaints and I summarise these below:
Much of its data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
CMIM was first approached by an introducer firm, Your Choice Pensions (YCP) in mid-
2013 and knew customers were in the process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in 
TRG. It entered into an introducing agent agreement with YCP. Its only financial 
benefit arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It 
attended numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky, only appropriate when considered as part of a diverse 
portfolio of investments where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its 
DFM services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk 
portfolio of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mrs M or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to its DFM service. A full suitability 
check relating to the specific trustee was only carried out at that point. To the best of 
its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter were very close to the date 
stated on the Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was 
placed on this letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they 
also had their own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
After approximately 9 months Mrs Ms DFM arrangement moved to Organic 
Investment Management, so CMIM has no responsibility for how she was invested 
after that point.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and Mrs M. It 
believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
The investigator also spoke to Mrs M directly. She could recall a person from YCP visiting 
her home and being promised that her pensions would perform better in the long run if 
consolidated together. She knew a property investment in Cape Verde was involved that 
would earn rental income. She didnt consider she would have invested at all if CMIM had 
highlighted it wasnt in her best interests. Her CMC had previously explained to us that Mrs 
Ms father had passed away shortly before the advice and she would normally have asked 
him for a second opinion on such matters.
In summary, our investigator took the view that CMIM should have advised Mrs M not to 
invest in TRG: firstly because it was unsuitable for her as an unsophisticated investor, but 
secondly because to do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions.
CMIM didnt agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous 
admissions. The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mrs M did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well 
have not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service 
was not being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mrs M were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mrs M to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in her making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mrs M to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mrs Ms loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mrs Ms losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mrs M to make the investment, and granted their consent to 
it, which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address when I reach that point in 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mrs M to invest in TRG?
Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This 
is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as 
advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mrs M would be participating in a (named) pooled property 
scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole.
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mrs Ms investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that CMIM wasnt, at least, carrying out the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it attended numerous
preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed documentation regarding the
investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and as to risk. However, advice
given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught by chapter 9 of COBS 
the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And the end of its dear Trustee letter reminds Mrs M that 
it hadnt assessed those circumstances. 
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
So, the part of the definition before the word or indicates its possible to make a personal
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presentedin such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as
being suitable for them in particular. But if I approach this from Mrs Ms position I have to 
take into account that CMIM told her it wasnt making a personal recommendation; she knew 
she hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it.
On balance, I think Mrs M ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt
for her to consider if she met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter 
as an appropriate investor into TRG. It left her to some of the work: was she cautious or 
more tolerant of risk? Did she require access to the funds during the expected duration of 
the investment? If Mrs M felt she met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have
carried more weight to her than one issued to the public at large: after all, she had personally
contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly
a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by
it separately encouraging her to seek further independent advice. If it thought she was better
off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised her at all. And its open to me to
consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9.
Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note that as TRG was a
UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mrs M, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mrs M to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mrs M had already decided to invest in TRG, so the dear 
Trustee letter would not have been pivotal in her thinking. However I dont think this is 
relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at 
PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients to draw, in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term;
- the risks CMIM highlighted in the letter were being mitigated by the strategy it was 
proposing to diversify their investment with a DFM arrangement held alongside it;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mrs M to take her own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed
her to infer that she could go ahead without that advice if she wasnt cautious or needing
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way. CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment. 
It would have been apparent to CMIM that other third parties had quite a lot of influence over 
what the trustees did, as this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely to 
receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in 
persuading Mrs M to make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how 
much attention Mrs M paid to it at the time, she then signed an investment instruction 
declaring that she had regard for it in making her investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise 
this is what would follow then it should have done, given it said it was giving its advice for the 
purposes of PA95.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) (in CMIMs view) Mrs M was simply signing where a third 
party told her shouldnt in my view have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It 
made CMIMs advice an inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM 
seems to have taken the view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mrs M to invest 
because of vested interests, yet it was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in
certain specified (and limited) circumstances. This underlines that advising on (and not just
personally recommending) an investment can also amount to a promotion: the very nature of
promotion means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though
YCP may also have promoted it originally, and even though didnt make a personal
recommendation).
Did Mrs M qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
Mrs M is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of 
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because she didnt appear to be 
a high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since. This leaves the range of 
exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R, most of which werent available because Mrs M 
doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated investor and didnt have any 
of the other professions or roles specified.
The remaining COBS exemptions were slightly altered on 1 January 2014. We dont know 
when the dear trustee letter was delivered to Mrs M, but Im not persuaded this makes a difference to the outcome. If it was before 1 January 2014, the only other relevant COBS 
exemption was a Category 2 person, being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the same group 
as the firm
Mrs M was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e.
activities which were regulated by the FCA). Mrs Ms agreement with CMIM specifically  
excluded such regulated activities, so she could not have met the definition of a newly 
accepted client.
If it was after 1 January 2014, the new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a 
promotion where the communication met all of the following requirements:
(a)  the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on 
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 read as follows: A person is connected with a firm if it acts as an introducer or appointed 
representative for that firm or if it is any other person, regardless of authorisation status, who has a 
relevant business relationship with the firm.
So its clear that YCPs introducer agreement with CMIM would always have made this 
exclusion unavailable too  because the introducer, rather than the trustee, was soliciting the 
advice. 
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mrs M, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it 
ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to
Mrs M previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mrs M paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it
encouraged Mrs M to confirm that she believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified 
adviser for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mrs M thought shed received 
suitability advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter 
CMIMs culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mrs M would have understood the difference 
between advice and suitability advice.
Mrs M was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I
think the most she would have reasonably understood was that she was getting an
appropriately qualified opinion on whether she should include TRG in her SSAS (or in
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for her SSAS). I cant see that
Mrs M misunderstood CMIMs role if it now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give 
that advice. And at a fundamental level, I dont think her inclination (or otherwise) to read the 
dear Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mrs M) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mrs M to take this advice, irrespective of the level of 
attention she paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mrs Ms investment
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments.
In any event, its just as difficult to see how advice that was stated in the terms of business to 
enable a trustee to make investment decisions for her SSAS under s.36 of PA95 could not 
be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small 
size, most of the regulations in the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 
2005 dont cover Mrs Ms SSAS. But regulation 7 does and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in the investment instructions CGL required Mrs M to 
sign. And I cant fairly say it was possible for Mrs M to obtain advice on whether TRG was 
suitable, and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of her SSAS, without a 
recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of 
that SSAS.
Amongst the FCAs Principles, CMIM was required to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if
YCP remembered to pass on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later
heard from them because theyd signed up for its DFM service. That calls into question 
whether CMIM was adhering to Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as 
it refers to the care CMIM should take in formulating advice (whether thats a personal 
recommendation or not). In observance of these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM 
could reasonably take:
1.Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mrs M at all; or
2.Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mrs M, which was 
tailored to her specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to her best interests and treat her fairly.
Note that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not amount to 
promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mrs M directly, rather than supplying it
via third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach 
Mrs M, if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was 
positively in favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or wanted to 
ensure it made direct personal recommendations, I accept its possible that those parties 
would have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable 
outcome. However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mrs M was required 
to take couldnt be given by just any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a 
regulated activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice 
given by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of 
that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected by the regulator; and the consequences of them giving 
advice in favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising Mrs M at all, and it chose not to 
take that route. So I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of a 
proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Mrs M to satisfy the regulators 
expectations and those of PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. 
So it ought to have known that investment in UCIS (particularly for an unsophisticated retail 
investor) shouldnt take up more than a small part of the investors overall assets  if their 
attitude to risk even allows them to make such an investment at all.
Nothing has been advanced to refute the CMCs reasonable observation, in my view, that Mrs M is likely to have been a low risk investor. There was nothing about TRG in particular  
being an off-plan, offshore property development subject to a variety of currency, 
counterparty, construction and occupancy risks to counter the presumption that it would be 
unsuitable for someone with Mrs Ms attitude to risk.
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being promoted to Mrs M was in order to 
invest in TRG. And looking at the timeframes involved in this case, and from my experience 
of other cases, I think its likely at the time Mrs M received CMIMs dear Trustee letter, 
neither of her pension providers had yet transferred the funds. So I need to consider how 
she would have acted, if CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt 
involve TRG. 
That might for example have included a recommendation for DFM on her whole portfolio. But 
that still wouldnt be advice that was in favour of investing in TRG, so I find it unlikely that the 
other parties involved would have been interested in her proceeding to transfer to the SSAS 
on that basis. To secure the TRG investment they needed advice in favour of it to comply 
with PA95 and as I said above I think its reasonable to conclude that other regulated firms 
should also have advised against TRG.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser,
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It would also
have played further into the checks Mrs Ms ceding schemes would have been carrying out 
to mitigate against pension liberation/scams  these might have involved asking her if she 
was being advised by a regulated adviser, for example.
From what I can see in this case, Mrs M didnt have particularly close ties to making the 
investment  such as a connection with friends or family. She had simply been cold-called. 
The CMC says she was left vulnerable by the death of her father who she would normally 
have gone to for a second opinion. As CMIM itself realises, it was brought on board to 
legitimise Mrs Ms investment in TRG. But its advice should have far from legitimised the 
investment. It should have made very clear that it was unsuitable for Mrs M. That would form 
the second opinion Mrs M says she would normally look for. 
So, once that second opinion had been given I cant safely say it could easily have been 
undone by any attempts to refer Mrs M to other advisers. Im satisfied the more likely 
outcome is that any further attempts to secure Mrs Ms TRG investment would have failed in 
the light of CMIMs advice. As a result, she would have been in a position to unwind the 
instruction to transfer her Aviva and Standard Life plans before they happened, and she 
would have remained in those plans.
Should I only apportion part of Mrs Ms losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know
whether Mrs M intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mrs M has chosen to bring this
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mrs Ms own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account,
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services.CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mrs M as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, 
had an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do 
that, it shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mrs M would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating her 
to CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say 
that on the balance of probabilities Mrs M would still have gone ahead with transferring her 
pension in order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated her fairly. 
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mrs M would not have transferred to the
SSAS. I think the effect of CMIM placing a barrier in her way would have been more likely
to deter her ultimate investment than not. I think its likely she would have heeded the proper
advice she was told she would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM.  
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mrs M in the position she would have been 
in, had she not gone ahead with the transfer from her previous pensions to the SSAS.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Standard Life and 
Aviva to obtain notional values for Mrs Ms former policies as at the date of my final decision, 
assuming that they continued to be invested in the same funds they were at the point they 
were transferred out. As a condition of accepting this decision, Mrs M will need to give CMIM 
her authority to obtain this information. CMIM should check that no tax-free cash or income 
payments have been taken from the SSAS - if they have, the gross amounts of these 
payments will need to be allowed for accordingly from one or both of the notional values.
The actual value of Mrs Ms CGL SSAS (including the current proceeds of the DFM 
arrangements used) as at the date of my final decision should be deducted from the 
combined notional value to arrive at Mrs Ms initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding 
administration charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the 
actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That seems to be the case with the TRG holding in the 
CGL SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. The actual value used in the calculations should include 
anything CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS. The fractional ownership company through 
membership of which Mrs M holds the TRG investment should be consulted to 
achieve this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the investment from CGL SSAS it should give 
them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. In that event its also fair that 
Mrs M should not be disadvantaged while she is unable to close down the CGL 
SSAS and move to a potentially cheaper arrangement. Third parties are involved and 
we dont have the power to tell them what to do. So to provide certainty to all parties I 
think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS administration fees at 
the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to allow a reasonable period of time for the 
CGL SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not
actually buying the investment from the SSAS.
I also cannot anticipate whether TRG and/or the fractional membership company will be 
permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to 
the extent that this is possible, CMIM will have benefited from the value it thinks is in the 
investment by buying it out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the 
investment, it may ask Mrs M instead to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mrs Ms losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need 
to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Mrs M to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may 
be made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
initial loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax protections or 
allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay it direct to Mrs 
M. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ms actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mrs M is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
But if she is yet to take her tax-free cash sum, the adjustment would only apply to 75% of the 
compensation, giving a composite reduction of 15% overall.
CMIM must also pay Mrs M £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to her retirement planning. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mrs M in 
a clear, simple format.
If either Standard Life or Aviva cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for one or both 
of the policies, and switch that for the notional value in its calculations. Mrs M seems to have 
had a low attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. To the extent that either Standard Life or 
Aviva cannot provide a notional value  which remains the preferred method of redressing 
this complaint  I consider that a 50% portion in the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Index on a Total Return basis and a 50% portion in line with the average return from fixed 
rate bonds would be the appropriate benchmark to use in this case.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. The average rate for 
the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risk to her capital. I consider that Mrs Ms risk profile was in 
between, in the sense that she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her 
investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put her into that position.It doesnt mean that Mrs M would specifically have made investments that exactly mirrored 
the return on this benchmark. For that reason CMIM should not be deducting investment 
costs or other charges from the benchmark. The view Im taking here is that the sort of funds 
Mrs M would have remained invested in with Standard Life or Aviva (if notional values arent 
available) would typically have performed broadly in line with this benchmark; notwithstanding 
the charges (which would have been lower than the SSAS in any event). It is a proxy that is 
being used for the purposes of compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or gains in the DFM portfolio form part of Mrs Ms overall loss. I 
note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio 
was appropriate, which it cannot vouch for in the subsequent reinvestment. But Ive reached 
the conclusion that Mrs M would have had no reason to be transferring her pension from 
Standard Life and Aviva at all, but for CMIMs failings  and I dont think it likely Standard 
Life and Aviva would have permitted DFM in the types of plan Mrs M held.
So including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Mrs M back into 
the position she would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider as these were either automatic or were encouraged 
by the very same third parties which CMIM had agreed to get involved with (in a way which 
did not act in the best interests of Mrs M and its other clients).
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mrs Ms loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mrs Ms rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-
mentioned undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay her compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman