DRN-2496181
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Covea Insurance plc hasnt provided a fair refund after an open
claim was settled as a non-fault claim. Mr C subsequently cancelled his car insurance policy.
Mr Cs father is representing his son in his complaint.
What happened
Mr C bought a car insurance policy with Covea in May 2019. He didnt disclose an open
claim following an incident with another vehicle which happened the month before.
Covea discovered this claim on an external database. So it emailed Mr C and asked him to
contact it. Covea recalculated the premium Mr C would need to pay based on the claim
which was an additional £163.92. This included a mid-term adjustment fee of £25. So the
difference in premium was £138.92.
Mr C was paying for his policy in instalments. As Covea didnt hear from Mr C, it sent him a
seven day cancellation notice.
In response, Mr C called to pay the additional amount. Covea offered for Mr C to repay this
in instalments over the remaining term of the policy - which Mr C agreed. This meant his
monthly payment increased from £92.19 to £110.79 on 5 July 2019 and remaining
instalments of £110.82 from 5 August 2019.
On 1 July 2019 Mr C called Covea to cancel his policy. He said he was selling his car and
would no longer be driving. So Covea cancelled his policy and charged its cancellation fee.
In August 2019 Mr C sent Covea a copy of a letter from the third party insurer involved in the
open claim. They confirmed their party accepted liability for the incident in April 2019.
Mr C asked Covea for a refund of the £163.92. Covea recalculated the premium it said Mr C
would have paid if hed told it about the incident - and on the basis it was a non-fault claim. It
provided a refund, but not for the full £163.92.
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. He said he wanted a full refund of the £163.92.
Our investigator thought Covea hadnt acted fairly when it discovered the open claim. He
referred to the relevant legislation for misrepresentation which is the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, also known as CIDRA.
He thought Covea should have given Mr C the option to continue with the policy but in the
event of a claim, pay a proportionately reduced settlement. He thought this should have
been offered in addition to the option of paying a higher premium, or for Mr C to choose to
cancel the policy. He didnt think it was fair  or in line with CIDRA- for Covea to have only
offered Mr C the option to either pay the higher premium or that Covea would cancel his
policy.
So the investigator thought Covea should do the following:
Refund any extra premium amount that was added to the monthly payments made.
Calculate the pro-rata premiums for the time on charge, and if this is lower than
whats already paid (taking into account the refund already received), refund this
amount to Mr C.
Refund any cancellation or admin fee charged (if applicable).
Add simple interest at 8% a year to these amounts from the dates the payments were
taken, to the date the refund payment is made.
Mr C accepted the investigators view.
Covea didnt agree. In summary it said it was entitled to cancel the policy if a customer
provided incorrect information when asked. As Mr C didnt reply to their first email about the
undisclosed claim, it sent a cancellation notice in line with the policy.
When Mr C called, he was happy to pay the additional premium and confirmed he was able
to meet the higher monthly payment. Covea says if he hadnt, it would have then discussed
the option of cancelling the policy with him.
When Mr C called in July 2019 to cancel his policy, he said this was because he was no
longer driving.
Covea says the complaint made was that Mr C was unhappy with the amount of returned
premium following confirmation of the claim as a non-fault claim. It doesnt interpret his
complaint to be about being charged the higher premium for the undisclosed claim. Covea
says Mr C is unhappy that hes still been charged a premium for a non-fault claim, which we
havent addressed in our view.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2020. I agreed with most of the 
investigators recommendations. But I thought Mr Cs reasons for cancelling his policy were 
not related to the misrepresentation. So I thought Covea was entitled to charge a 
cancellation fee. 
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. Covea didnt agree. In summary it doesnt accept it 
acted against CIDRA. And it reiterated that the actions recommended by us werent 
presented to it by the customer in his complaint. Covea says it dealt with the original 
complaint points fairly. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C applied for the policy, he was asked the following question:
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past five years, no matter
who was at fault or if a claim was made? Additional help was available when
answering the question which read:
Its really important to tell us about any claims (including unsettled claims) accidents
or losses that are motor vehicle related
I think Mr C was asked a clear question which he answered incorrectly. Mr C was involved inan incident with another vehicle in April 2019. Mr C said he didnt disclose it as liability was
in dispute. But Mr C was asked to disclose all accidents irrespective of fault and including
any unsettled claims.
As Covea didnt avoid Mr Cs policy for deliberately misrepresenting the facts, it has treated
the misrepresentation as careless in line with CIDRA.
I think Mr C might be of the view that because the claim was settled as non fault this means
the original premium he paid was the correct one. But thats not true. All claims are recorded
(and should be disclosed) until liability is resolved. Its industry practice that an insurer treats
an open claim as a fault claim until its settled. Insurers provide a different rating for
customers who have had no accidents, or had an accident that wasnt their fault, or had an
accident that was their fault. So because the claim was settled as non-fault this doesnt
mean the original premium Mr C paid was the right one  as this didnt include the incident at
all from April 2019.
Covea has told us that the increase in premium was £112.68 once the claim was settled as a
non-fault claim. So the difference Covea charged Mr C between a fault claim and a non-fault
claim was £26.24.
Insurers have their own underwriting criteria which they use to price their policies. These
criteria is commercially sensitive and so it cant be shared with customers. But we can ask to
view it so that we can be sure a customer has been treated fairly.
Having reviewed Coveas underwriting criteria, Im satisfied it has fairly applied it to Mr Cs
circumstances.
However, Covea gave Mr C the option of paying the additional premium only. And as he
hadnt replied to its request for payment, it sent Mr C a seven day cancellation notice.
If an insurer cancels a policy, this can have an impact on future insurance premiums
compared to if a customer chooses to cancel a policy.
Covea says its cancellation process and conditions was clearly set out in the policy. I dont 
dispute this. 
When Mr C contacted Covea after receiving the cancellation notice, he said the purpose of
his call was to pay the additional premium. The handler asked him if it was something he
could afford, which Mr C said yes. So Covea believes it acted reasonably.
However, CIDRA doesnt say that an insurer has the right to charge an additional premium in
these circumstances. And so our approach is that we think an insurer should give a
customer alternatives: such as maintaining the premium but in the event of a claim, receive a
proportionately reduced settlement  or choose to cancel the policy. So I dont think Covea
gave Mr C clear and accurate information about his choices. In this case, the alternative
given to Mr C was to pay the premium. And as Mr C didnt initially reply to do this, Covea
gave him notice of cancellation.
In my provisional decision I said that I appreciated Covea focused on the misrepresentation 
and the refund amount which forms Mr Cs complaint. But Id looked at the whole picture and 
within our inquisitorial remit in deciding whether Covea had been fair to Mr C. I think the 
complaint Mr C made about the refund amount wouldnt have arisen had Covea acted fairly 
and in line with CIDRA. 
Mr C couldnt have known that Covea should have given him the option not to pay the 
additional premium and continue with the policy, as Covea didnt make him aware.So my final decision remains along the same lines as my provisional decision. I agree with 
the investigators view in relation to refunding any additional premium and mid-term 
adjustment fee Mr C was charged before cancellation. And I think Covea should
pay interest on any refund amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of
payment to the date it provides a refund.
Mr C called Covea to cancel his policy in July 2019 because he was no longer driving. So I
think Covea was entitled to charge its cancellation fee in line with the policy terms. The
reason for cancellation is unrelated to the misrepresentation, or the increase in premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to do the 
following:
 Refund any extra premium amount that was added to the monthly payments Mr C
made following the misrepresentation.
 Calculate the pro-rata premiums for the time on charge, and if this is lower than 
what Mr C already paid (taking into account the refund already received), refund this
amount to Mr C.
 Refund any mid-term adjustment fee charged for the change in premium (if
applicable).
 Add simple interest at 8% a year to these amounts from the dates the payments 
were taken, to the date the refund payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman