DRN-3877660
The complaint
Mr F complains Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One isnt processing payments 
properly which is leading to some failing.
 
What happened
Mr F has had a Capital One credit card account for many years. From about mid-2022 he 
started to experience problems. Initially a recurring payment to a large internet marketplace 
failed, repeatedly. And later, one-off payments to some other merchants failed. Mr F 
considers Capital One is responsible for the payments failing. Capital One considers the 
merchants are responsible for the payments failing. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, I make the following observations:
- There are several parties to most payments  the merchant, a payment gateway, an 
acquiring bank, a card network, and the payers bank. It follows a payment failing 
doesnt necessarily mean the payers bank (Capital One here) is responsible.
- During the time the payments failed, other payments were successful. I therefore find 
it unlikely there was/is an issue with Mr Fs card/account. 
- Im not aware of any wider issues with Capital Ones payment systems, and as part 
of Capital Ones investigation into this matter someone reviewed the settings and 
rules to check everything was in order, and found they were.
- Capital One has provided its records for the failed payments. These include notes 
such as Decline due to incorrect merchant processing, which suggest an issue(s) at 
the merchants end. 
I understand Mr Fs point of view on this matter in that Capital One is the common 
denominator for the failed payments, and that when he used a different card (which I 
understand was for a one-off payment rather than a recurring one) he didnt experience the 
same issue(s). 
While I sympathise with Mr F  after all hes done nothing wrong  this isnt a complaint I find 
I should uphold. I must make my decision based on the information available to me. And 
based on that information, Im not satisfied there is enough for me to fairly and reasonably 
conclude Capital One is responsible for some payments failing. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman