DRN-3030726
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly refused him a second buy to let 
mortgage.  
What happened
Mr P had a buy to let mortgage with Barclays and in July 2020 applied for a mortgage of 
£487,500.00 on a neighbouring property. Barclays would only offer a loan of 33% of the 
value of the asset or £220,249.00. Mr P proceeded with the application on the lower amount 
in August but then in October the application was discontinued when Mr P told Barclays that 
the tenant wouldnt give access for a valuation. As Mr P had a mortgage of £400,000 on the 
neighbouring property and as both properties rental prospects were similar, he felt that 
Barclays. had treated him unfairly. 
Our investigators view was that Barclays had made an error in assessing the income on the 
properties. The existing property was yielding a rental income of £2,500 and Mr P hoped that 
the new property would yield the same but our investigators view was that Barclays 
underwriter had assumed there was a duplication and removed Mr Ps income from the 
existing letting. So, our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. As 
regards compensation he felt that as Mr P didnt proceed with the purchase that 
compensation should only reflect his disappointment with Barclays service which he 
assessed at £200. Mr P disagreed and said that his main complaint was about time and 
wanted Barclays to review his application and offer the correct borrowing amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator analysed this application and concluded that Barclays had made an error in 
its calculations by disregarding the income from Mr Ps existing buy to let. This meant that it 
made an offer of a loan smaller than it otherwise would have done had it interpreted the 
figures correctly. I agree with her analysis that Barclays appear to have made an error and 
note that Barclays has not disputed our investigators view.
The question is I have to look at is one of compensation - to put Mr P in the position he 
would have been had Barclays not made the error. But the error didnt prevent Mr P buying 
the property. Mr P made an application to buy the property with the lower mortgage amount, 
but the purchase was discontinued because the tenant in the property refused access to the 
valuer and a valuation was not carried out. So, it wasnt the lower mortgage offer that caused 
the purchase not to complete but the fact that a valuation wasnt able to be done on the 
property - and that wasnt Barclays fault. Mr P has also told us that he could have got access 
to funds from another lender but wanted to stay with Barclays which reinforces my view that 
it wasnt Barclays error that deprived Mr P of his ability to purchase the property as he 
confirms that he could have got funding elsewhere to do so. I also note that Mr P was 
concerned about missing out on the stamp duty holiday in the purchase but the decision by 
Barclays only to proceed with the lower amount was made in August 2020 and this was well 
in advance of the ending of the stamp duty holiday and Mr P had time to apply to an 
alternative lender for finance in that time. So, whilst I uphold this complaint, I dont accept 
that Barclays error resulted in Mr P suffering a financial loss. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr Ps compensation should reflect the distress Mr P 
suffered as a result of the error and the inconvenience he would have been put to, to go 
through a further application process and I believe that £200 is a fair reflection of that. I note 
that Mr P has asked that Barclays offer him what he terms the correct amount of borrowing. I 
dont believe that its appropriate that I should make such an order. Barclays will have a 
process to follow and lending criteria to apply and I will leave it to Barclays to fairly apply 
those should Mr P make a further application. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr P £200.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr P £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman