DRN-3734451
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who carried out work on 
their boiler, which was unsuccessful, following a claim under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F contacted BG as there were error codes that were displaying on their boiler. It 
sent an engineer to assess the issue and a power flush was recommended. The power flush 
was charged at £840 and took place, but this didnt appear to resolve the issue as the fault 
codes were still displayed on the boiler. 
In addition, various parts within the boiler were affected and they needed to be changed 
(which BG did) so that the boiler would operate correctly. But Mr and Mrs F said that to date, 
the fault codes were still appearing on the boiler. So, to be charged for the power flush, 
which they were advised would fix the issue was unfair. So, they reported this to BG and 
raised a complaint.
In its final response, BG apologised for the service it had provided and said that its engineer 
had confirmed that a power flush had been required. BG also agreed to cancel two excess 
charges for two unrelated faults totally £120. 
Mr and Mrs F were given their referral rights and as they remained unhappy with the 
outcome (as BG hadnt cancelled the invoice for the power flush), they referred a complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that BG shouldve referred the original issue (the boiler codes being displayed) to the boiler 
manufacturer as he was convinced that it wasnt a home emergency. He explained that as 
BG had recommended that the boiler was power flushed, and Mr and Mrs F followed that 
recommendation, which did not resolve the issue, he wasnt convinced that a power flush 
was needed at all. Also, despite further parts being fitted this didnt resolve the issue. So, he 
recommended that BG cancel/waiver the invoice of £840. 
Mr and Mrs F agreed with the view, BG did not. It said that Mr and Mrs F hadnt reported any 
further issues about the boiler after the power flush. The parts that had been changed 
following the power flush were done so to keep the boiler in good working condition and 
because they had been damaged due to the build-up of sludge. Finally, it said that an annual 
service had been carried out following this, and there were no issues identified with the 
boiler. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr and Mrs F contacted BG as error codes became displayed on their boiler. After an 
assessment, BG recommended that the boiler was power flushed, as this would resolve the 
issue. Upon this advice, a power flush was carried out. But instead of resolving the issue, the 
error codes were still being displayed. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether the 
power flush was the correct remedy for the problem with Mr and Mrs Fs boiler.
BG said that the power flush highlighted that other parts had been affected by the sludge in 
the system and those parts had to be replaced. But despite this and of course the power 
flush, the evidence shows that the original issue that Mr and Mrs F reported (namely the fault 
codes being displayed on the boiler) persisted. I think this shows that BG shouldve referred 
Mr and Mrs F to the boiler manufacturer for them to investigate why the boiler codes were 
showing. Instead it recommended the power flush, which I dont think was the correct advice, 
given that the power flush didnt seemingly repair the fault. 
Further, I also think that it wouldve been reasonable for BG to have known that other parts 
were likely to fail, as a result of the power flush. Yet I can see no evidence to show that BG 
at any time, advised Mr and Mrs F to either contact the boiler manufacturer or advise Mr and 
Mrs F that the sludge in the system could damage other parts. Without this advice, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs F were able to make an informed decision about whether they wanted to 
have a power flush at all. Or whether they could have referred the issue to the boiler 
manufacturer.
Also, the evidence before me shows that Mr and Mrs F were concerned about having a 
power flush, as they said that the boiler was relatively new (around four years old at the 
time). But they said that as BG had advised them that getting a power flush was the only 
way to remedy the problem. They followed its advice. 
I can see that BG also advised Mr and Mrs F to install a further heat control system to the 
boiler as this it said would remedy the fault. But this wasnt the case either. And whilst BG 
said that the issues have now been fixed, Mr and Mrs F have provided evidence to show that 
the fault codes were still being displayed after the power flush and other methods that BG 
advised them to undertake. 
Consequently, I dont think that BGs recommendation for a power flush resolved the issue 
with the boiler. And Im persuaded that the power flush wasnt needed. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances, to put matters right, I recommend that BG cancel or waiver the invoice 
of £840.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
To put matters right, British Gas Insurance Limited to:Cancel the invoice of £840.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman