DRN-3771123
The complaint
Mr I complains Nationwide Building Society wouldnt agree to make a payment hed 
instructed. 
What happened
Mr I is an existing customer of Nationwide and holds a current account with them.
In or around May 2022, Mr I identified an item he wanted to purchase through an online 
auction site. A price was agreed of £9,900 for the item and the seller requested a non-
refundable deposit be paid of £500. A payment for that amount was made successfully by 
another party for Mr I.
Mr I obtained the bank account details for the seller and visited a Nationwide branch to 
discuss making the payment. Mr I says Nationwide confirmed the bank account details 
appeared genuine and offered to initiate payment for him. Mr I preferred to do this himself 
using Nationwides online bank service from his home.
Mr I returned home and attempted to make the payment which appeared to be successfully 
completed. So, he contacted the seller to let them know the payment had been made. Later 
that day, Mr I received a call from Nationwides fraud team. They asked Mr I various 
questions about the proposed payment and explained the various risks involved with paying 
such a large sum for this type of transaction. 
Nationwide wanted Mr I to obtain documentation from the seller to support the transaction. 
Mr I wasnt happy with Nationwides questions and requirements and insisted they make the 
payment hed requested. But Nationwide werent willing to do that. 
Mr I later obtained the documentation from the seller but Nationwide still didnt make the 
payment. So, the following day, Mr I visited a Nationwide branch again. He asked them to 
make the payment. But the branch had to speak to their fraud team first. Once again the 
payment instruction was refused.
Mr I complained to Nationwide about his experience. He thought Nationwides checks and 
requirements hadnt been appropriate and said that while hed subsequently sent them the 
documentation theyd requested; theyd still refused to make the payment. Nationwides 
actions meant he had to ask another party to complete the transaction on his behalf. This 
was completed without a problem and Mr I received the item. He was also able to 
successfully transfer the funds to that person. 
In their response, Nationwide didnt agree they done anything wrong in following their 
process. They also said the branch staff wouldnt have been able to override their fraud 
teams decision to refuse the payment. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr I referred his complaint to this service. Having 
considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr I unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr I wasnt happy with our investigators findings. He couldnt understand why another party 
had been able to complete the transaction quickly and easily through their bank when 
compared to his experience with Nationwide.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Is complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks and financial businesses have an implied duty to exercise reasonable care and 
skill when acting on their customers instructions. This includes not completing transactions 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe there may be an attempt to misappropriate 
funds. In recent court cases, it was suggested that this duty arises once a business has 
been put on enquiry that there may be reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) 
for this belief.
Nationwide, like many financial businesses, have systems that enable them to swiftly identify 
potential situations that could put both themselves and their customers at risk of financial 
harm. There are reports that suggest attempts to defraud bank accounts have risen 
significantly since the start of the global pandemic. As a result, banks systems and 
processes have become more complex and rigorous to ensure all parties are protected as 
far as possible.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Is account allow Nationwide to stop a transaction 
or block a bank account in certain circumstances. The current terms and conditions are 
available on their website here: 
https://www.nationwide.co.uk/-/assets/nationwidecouk/documents/current-
accounts/resources/p857-current-account-important-
information.pdf?rev=b0ccca3355fc4811a008f0fa97a63dac
Specifically, section 20 on page 6 of this document says we may carry out checks before 
payments are made with a view to preventing financial crime. Occasionally this may lead 
to a delay in a payment being sentIn some circumstances we may not be able to make the 
paymentWe will always tell you if this is the case unless it would be unlawful to do so. We 
will not be responsible for any loss that results from this.
In Mr Is case, the proposed payment was identified as high risk. Nationwide have provided 
details of why that was the case. And although business sensitivities mean Im not able to 
provide further details, Id like to reassure Mr I the information Ive seen persuades me that 
Nationwides reasons appear reasonable and had foundation. So, I cant reasonably say 
Nationwide did something wrong when they decided not to process Mr Is payment 
instruction.
Mr I has commented that another party was able to complete the transaction without 
problem through their bank. I cant comment on that as that individual, transaction and bank 
were not directly involved in this complaint. 
I do realise Mr I will be disappointed; but as I havent found anything to suggest Nationwide 
did anything wrong, I wont be asking them to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman