DRN-2841525
The complaint
Miss M complains that Next Retail Limited has charged her account for goods that she didnt 
receive. She wants the charges to be removed.
What happened
Miss M tells us that she ordered goods through a catalogue with Next. It became necessary 
for Next to return some items to her. Miss M says that several of the returned items werent 
received by her. And she doesnt think that she should have to pay for these items.
Next told us that it had returned several items to Miss M at her registered address using a 
courier business Ill refer to as P. It said that P had provided tracking information to show 
that the items had been delivered. But due to Covid restrictions no signatures had been 
obtained.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Next 
had returned the goods using a reputable courier business.  And there was information to 
show that the goods had been delivered to Miss Ms address. She felt that it was fair for Next 
to charge for these items.
Miss M didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss M feels strongly about this matter. And I understand why she would be 
disappointed at being charged for goods if she didnt receive them.
The issue in dispute here is relatively straightforward. Miss Ms complaint is that as she 
didnt receive most of the goods that were returned to her she shouldnt be charged for any 
missing items.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Our investigators view letters gave the details of the orders and the tracking information she 
found on Ps website. And which set out the dates on which goods were reported to be 
delivered to Miss Ms address. I wont repeat all the detail as the parties have seen it.
In summary, it shows that the disputed items were delivered on 4 separate dates from 
December 2020 to January 2021.
Ive no reason to doubt Miss M when she says she didnt receive these items. But thats not 
the same as being able to say that they werent delivered to her address.
Ive been provided with information that indicates the items were correctly delivered. But it 
remains a matter of speculation what mightve happened to them if Miss M didnt receive 
them in person. It is of course possible that there was a third party intervention.
Im satisfied on the information provided, that Next returned the goods using a reputable 
courier service. And that on the balance of probabilities they were delivered to Miss Ms 
address.
Its unfortunate that due to the present Covid situation it wasnt possible for P to obtain a 
signature. And apparently no photographs of the delivery were taken. Our investigator has 
already explained that this service is unable to instruct P as to what processes it puts in 
place to confirm deliveries have been made. I agree with that view.
I understand that Miss M is likely to be disappointed with my decision. But I cant say that 
Next has done anything wrong. Its used a recognised courier service. Its made enquiries 
with that business and has been provided with information which indicates that the goods 
were delivered to Miss Ms address.
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that Next is being unfair or unreasonable in charging 
for the goods. Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman