DRN-2673772
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on 
a plumbing and drainage policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs M got in touch with Aviva to make a claim on her plumbing and 
drainage policy, after she noticed a bad smell in her home. An engineer visited Mrs Ms 
property and couldnt find a cause of the smell. He thought it might be down to a blockage, 
so another engineer was sent out a few days later. He also couldnt find a cause of the smell 
but thought it might be due to rats getting into the property.
Mrs M ultimately got out her own contractor a couple of weeks later, who found a leak under 
the kitchen sink, which had caused damage to the flooring. Mrs Ms contractor said the floor 
would need to be replaced. So Mrs M got in touch with Aviva to make a complaint about the 
way its engineers had investigated the cause of the smell. She said they hadnt removed the 
plinth and looked under the sink when they visited. She considered that if theyd done so, 
theyd have discovered the leak sooner, which wouldve prevented more water gushing onto 
her floor and causing further damage. She felt that Aviva should cover the cost of replacing 
the kitchen floor.
Aviva agreed to reimburse Mrs M for the costs shed incurred in getting the leak fixed. And it 
appointed a surveyor to visit Mrs Ms home to assess whether the damaged flooring was 
down to Avivas engineers not finding the leak when theyd attended the property. The 
surveyor didnt think the damage was down to any error on the part of Avivas engineers. It 
thought given there was already rotting to the kickboards; the water damage had been going 
on over time and pre-dated the engineers visits. On this basis, Aviva told Mrs M it wouldnt 
cover the cost of replacing her flooring.
Mrs M remained unhappy with the way Aviva had handled her claim and so she asked us to 
look into her complaint. She provided a letter from her contractor which said the whole pipe 
connecting the dishwasher and sink had disconnected, meaning that water and food was 
leaking onto the floor; rotting and causing a bad smell. He said the leak had caused 
extensive water damage. He estimated the leak had been going on for about two weeks 
before he found it.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to cover the costs of replacing Mrs Ms 
floor. She thought itd been fair for Aviva to ask a surveyor to investigate the floor damage. 
She considered what Mrs Ms contractor had said, but she felt, given the timeline hed 
mentioned, it was unlikely that a leak could cause a bad smell and rot so soon after 
happening. And she was persuaded by Avivas surveyors comments which noted that if Mrs 
M had used the dishwasher during this period, around 95 litres of water wouldve escaped. 
The surveyor didnt think it was likely this volume of water couldve escaped without Mrs M 
noticing. She found Avivas surveyors comments more persuasive than Mrs Ms contractors 
comments. So she thought the damage had likely already existed before Avivas engineers 
had visited Mrs Ms home.
But Aviva had previously agreed that it couldve done more to try and find the source of the 
bad smell during its investigations. And it agreed to pay Mrs M £100 compensation to 
recognise this. The investigator thought this was a fair award.
Mrs M disagreed. She didnt think Avivas offer was fair, given the time and inconvenience 
shed been put to and the costs shed incurred.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Avivas offer to pay Mrs M £100 compensation is fair and reasonable 
and Im not telling it to pay anything more. Ill explain why.
First, whilst Ive summarised the background to this complaint, Id like to reassure Mrs M that 
Ive carefully considered everything shes said and sent us. In reaching my decision though, 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Theres no dispute that when Avivas engineers visited Mrs Ms home, they didnt find or fix 
the leak underneath the sink. Avivas said that thats because Mrs M didnt report any signs 
of a possible leak  shed only told it about a bad smell. It says that bad smells are usually 
caused by blocked drains. So its engineers had investigated and eliminated a blocked drain 
as a likely cause of the smell. 
Around two weeks later, Mrs Ms own engineer found the leak under the kitchen sink and 
repaired it. Aviva accepted that the repair costs wouldve been covered by Mrs Ms policy 
with it and it reimbursed her for the costs shed incurred. In my view, this was an appropriate 
response. It also acknowledges that its engineers couldve done more to look into the cause 
of the smell during their visits. If theyd done so, the leak couldve been found and fixed 
earlier. I think its right that Aviva recognises that this led to Mrs M being inconvenienced by 
the smell remaining in her home and the fact the leak continued for around two weeks longer 
than it ought to have done. And in my opinion, £100 is fair compensation to reflect the likely 
trouble and upset this caused Mrs M. So Im directing Aviva to pay Mrs M this amount. 
Mrs M feels that this delay in diagnosing and fixing the leak caused the damage to her floor. 
She feels strongly that Aviva should cover the costs of replacing it. Ive carefully considered 
all of the expert evidence I have on this point.
Aviva asked a surveyor to inspect Mrs Ms home to establish whether the delay in 
diagnosing and fixing the leak had caused the damage. This is what I wouldve expected 
Aviva to do in these circumstances. The surveyor didnt think the two-week delay had 
caused the damage. It considered the damage had happened before Aviva was called out. 
Aviva said that given there was rotting to materials behind the plinth and a bad smell, this 
suggested the damage had been going on for some time  most likely due to a slow leak.
Mrs Ms contractors report said: On removing the plinth I could see that the whole pipe 
connecting to the sink and dishwasher had become completely unattached. This meant that 
all the water from the sink and the dishwasher was landing on to the floor and food waste 
was creating a bad smell. The water had leaked under the floorboards and created extensive 
water damage. It is my estimate that the leak had been there for around 2 weeks.We asked Aviva to comment on this report, which it passed back to a surveyor. The surveyor 
thought given the two-week timeframe mentioned in the report - taking into account a 
conservative usage of the dishwasher during that period - around 95 litres of water wouldve 
leaked under the sink. The surveyor queried where the water had gone, as it thought it was 
most likely this amount of water leaking under the sink wouldve been noticed. 
Ive weighed up all of the expert evidence Ive been provided with. It does seem less likely 
that if the dishwasher pipe had only been leaking for two weeks, damage to the materials 
behind the plinth wouldve already occurred and be serious enough to mean the whole floor 
needed to be replaced. Or that there wouldve been a bad enough smell within a matter of a 
day or two which wouldve prompted Mrs M to get in touch with Aviva.
In these circumstances, I think it was fair for Aviva to place more weight on its surveyors 
opinions. The surveyor inspected Mrs Ms floor and felt that the damage pre-dated Avivas 
engineers visits. So it didnt consider the delay in finding and fixing the leak did cause the 
damage to the floor. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the surveyors conclusion 
and not to agree to pay for the damaged flooring. Thats because Im satisfied the current 
evidence suggests that the damage to the flooring had happened over time. And that the 
flooring wouldve needed to be replaced even if Avivas engineer had discovered it during 
their first visit.
Its open to Mrs M to obtain more expert evidence to support her position if shed like to do 
so, at her cost, and provide it to Aviva to consider. Its confirmed it will consider any further 
evidence she might send it. And its also open to Mrs M to get in touch with her home insurer 
should she wish to do so to make a claim for the water leak damage. I cant comment though 
on whether any such claim would be successful.
Overall, Im satisfied Avivas offer to pay Mrs M £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Im not telling it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Avivas offer of compensation is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman