DRN-2850763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nottingham Building Society isnt sending letters, within the 
stated timeframe, that confirm the recalculation of their monthly payment following an 
overpayment to their mortgage account.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M make regular overpayments to their mortgage. They say when an 
overpayment is made, Nottingham usually sends a letter within seven days of receiving the 
payment to confirm what their new monthly payment will be. 
Mr and Mrs M say they havent been receiving these letters within seven days of making the 
payment. They require these letters to confirm the payment has been allocated correctly and 
that no additional interest has been charged  it also helps them budget properly for the next 
monthly payment. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint. 
Nottingham explained that when Mr and Mrs M make an overpayment by debit card over the 
telephone, a recalculation of their monthly payment and a letter to confirm this would be 
automatically generated. Due to a change in its working practices, because of the Covid-19 
pandemic, Nottingham couldnt accept overpayments by debit card and had to change its 
process for recalculating monthly payments. 
It explained that any overpayment Mr and Mrs M made by bank transfer would not be 
recognised immediately. The process involved Mr and Mrs Ms account appearing on an 
internal report  which would only happen once two payments had been made to the 
account in one month  and then a manual administrative process is carried out to 
recalculate the monthly payment following the overpayment. This process was dependent on 
the volumes of administrative work its team was dealing with, which at times has impacted 
the speed at which letters are produced. Nottingham offered Mr and Mrs W £50 for any 
inconvenience caused by these delays.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and felt the £50 offered by Nottingham was fair in 
the circumstances. She agreed that Mr and Mrs M hadnt been receiving letters within seven 
days, and at times hadnt received a letter at all. Whilst she understood Mr and Mrs Ms 
frustration with this, she thought the impact the pandemic had on Nottinghams working 
practices was a contributing factor to these delays. The Investigator also noted that 
Nottingham had prematurely closed Mr and Mrs Ms complaint following a staff member 
leaving the society  even though Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with the outcome. 
However, she felt Nottingham had rectified this by re-opening the complaint as soon as it 
was made aware. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said the delays in Nottingham sending 
them letters was causing them issues and they didnt think the £50 fairly represents the 
multiple times they had to contact Nottingham. In absence of these letters, they didnt know 
whether their payments had been applied correctly and that they werent paying additional 
interest. They also referenced a recent overpayment made in June 2021 which hadnt been 
allocated to their account  meaning they had been charged additional interest. 
Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nottingham accepts its taken longer than usual to send letters confirming Mr and Mrs Ms 
new monthly payment  and that at times, no letters have been sent at all. Its explained that 
its working practices have changed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and its staff still 
havent returned to its offices fully. 
Before Nottinghams change in working practices it had the facility to receive overpayments 
by debit card over the telephone. This process automatically re-calculated Mr and Mrs Ms 
new monthly payment and generated a letter to be sent to them informing them of the 
change to their monthly payment. 
Nottingham is currently unable to offer this facility and overpayments can only be made 
electronically by either BACS or CHAPS payment. This process doesnt automatically 
recalculate Mr and Mrs Ms monthly payment following an overpayment. Instead, the 
process is done manually once the account appears on an internal report following two 
payments to the account in one month. The time it takes for this manual process to be 
completed depends on the volumes of the administrative work Nottingham is dealing with at 
the time.
I appreciate it must be frustrating for Mr and Mrs M not to receive the letter informing them of 
the change to their monthly payment within the seven days they are used to. Especially as 
they use this letter as confirmation the payment has been applied to their account and to 
budget for the following month. However, I dont think its unreasonable that there have been 
delays with informing Mr and Mrs M about the changes to their monthly payment. I say this 
because Nottingham has had to make changes to its overpayment process, using its own 
commercial judgement, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M dont believe the Covid-19 pandemic should be used as an 
excuse for the time its taking Nottingham to send the letters informing them of the change to 
their monthly payment. But I disagree because the Covid-19 pandemic is still having an 
impact on Nottinghams working practices as its staff are still working from home, which 
impacts Nottinghams ability to process overpayments  something which is affecting all of 
Nottinghams customers, not just Mr and Mrs M.  
Mr and Mrs M have also raised concern about how they are supposed to know their 
overpayment has been applied to the account  and they havent been charged additional 
interest  if they dont receive a letter. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms concern here but for the 
most part they have been receiving letters, just not within the usual time frames. So, they are 
being informed of the changes to their monthly payment following an overpayment.
Nottingham has explained that interest is always recalculated the day after any payment is 
received  which is confirmed in the terms and conditions for the mortgage. Ive seen a list of 
the overpayments Mr and Mrs M have made and a copy of their transaction history. This 
shows that each time an overpayment has been made an adjustment to their interest is also 
calculated  this includes the overpayment of 22 June 2021. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs Ms overpayments have been applied to the account correctly and the interest 
adjusted.  However, I think Nottingham needs to recognise that sometimes it hasnt sent letters to 
Mr and Mrs M following an overpayment. I think Mr and Mrs M would have experienced 
distress and inconvenience not knowing whether the payment had been applied to their 
account and having to contact Nottingham to enquire about the overpayments. The delays in 
sending the letters has also inconvenienced them, as it has had some impact on how they 
budget. I think Nottingham has fairly recognised the distress and inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs M has experienced by offering £50 compensation. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs M have questioned whether there is a new standard timeframe 
for sending out letters or a proposed solution to the current situation. Nottingham is unable to 
give specific timeframes for when letters will be sent to Mr and Mrs M as this is dependent 
on the amount of administrative work it has at any point  which I dont think is unreasonable 
as this is subject to change in the current circumstances. Whilst, I understand this will be 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs M, ultimately, it is Nottinghams commercial decision how it 
processes overpayments and when it sends letters. 
I note that Mr and Mrs M have also raised concerns about Nottingham closing their 
complaint even though they remained unhappy with the outcome. This complaint point is 
about the way Nottingham handled Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  in other words complaint 
handling. Whilst our investigator informally commented on this, Im unable to because 
complaint handling isnt an act or omission by a firm in carrying out one or more of the 
regulated or other covered activities our service has jurisdiction to consider.
 
My final decision
My decision is that the £50 offered to Mr and Mrs M by Nottingham Building Society is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This should be paid to Mr and Mrs M 
if not already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman