DRN-4421089
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited failed to provide satisfactory 
customer service.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and not in dispute. In summary 
Mrs J called Admiral to enquire about travel insurance. She had previously cancelled her 
annual multi trip policy due to covid restrictions. She was given information but declined to 
take another annual policy as it was too expensive for her. She called again but was advised 
that Admiral was unable to provide a single trip insurance quote at that time.
Very sadly Mr J passed away suddenly in August 2022, and Mrs J needed to make 
arrangements to change the travellers on her pre-booked cruise. She incurred expense with 
regard to the flights but had no travel insurance in place. When Admiral didnt uphold her 
complaint, she referred the matter here. Our investigator didnt find that Admiral had mis-
advised Mrs J. Mrs J appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint - no discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive listened 
to all the recordings, including Mrs Js call to our investigator after he issued his view.
Although I recognise that Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision, for the following 
reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
Admiral correctly told Mrs J that she could renew her annual policy when she called 
in April 2022. She declined to do so because of the cost and because at that time 
she had no holiday booked. She called back some weeks later as she had booked a 
cruise. It was explained to her to that she couldnt take out a single trip policy at that 
time but could call back in December 2022, or three months before the trip. Or she 
could purchase an annual multi trip policy. This was also correct  Admiral will only 
quote for a single trip policy when the start date is no more than 270 days from the 
quote date. That is a commercial decision with which this service cant interfere. Had 
Mrs J wanted single trip travel insurance at that time she wasnt precluded from 
looking elsewhere  Admiral isnt a broker and was only selling its own policies.
The operative that Mrs J spoke to explained that she could take out annual multi trip 
insurance and could add cruise cover. He gave her quotes  starting from 23 May 
2022 including worldwide cover. It was agreed that the operative would email Mrs J 
the quotes for her to consider. I find that was fair and reasonable, Mrs J had the 
option to proceed if she wanted.
Mrs J felt that she was mis-advised because when she spoke to Admiral she was told 
that she would be covered by the holiday provider if something happened. The 
operative she spoke to did say that if the holiday was cancelled due to provider fault 
the provider will be the one to cover that, not the insurer. I dont think that was 
incorrect. It may be there was a misunderstanding, but I dont find that this was 
caused by the operative. 
Mrs J asked the operative what he would suggest  if say she was to get covid. He 
repeated that she could call back in December for a single trip policy or to take an 
annual worldwide multi trip policy. Im not persuaded that she was under the 
impression she didnt need insurance because the cruise company would provide 
cover. I say this as after this comment Mrs J asked to go through the annual multi trip 
cover  as shed had that before. It seemed that she would consider that cover, 
although she felt it was expensive. 
It is most unfortunate that Mrs J didnt have any cover in place when her husband Mr 
J sadly passed away. But I dont find that this is because Admiral did anything wrong, 
or that she was mis-advised. The operative correctly explained the cover the Admiral 
could offer.
Admiral did accept that Mrs J was passed to several operatives when she called to 
discuss the matter. It felt that this would have been inconvenient and offered £30 in 
compensation. I find this was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman