DRN-4277228
The complaint
Mr L says American Express Services Europe Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to
a transaction on his credit card which paid for accommodation.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr L used his American Express Services Europe Limited credit card (Amex
for short) to make payment for eleven nights of accommodation booked for later in April 
2022 abroad. He paid just over £340 for these eleven nights and stayed the entire duration 
of the booking at the Hotel (the Hotel) which he booked through a Website (the Website). 
Mr L says the room was extremely noisy and he couldnt sleep. He says he talked to the 
Hotel and it said all the rooms were the same. But he said the room wasnt as described 
because the advertising said they were soundproofed rooms. So having not been 
successful in complaining to the Hotel, he then complained to Amex to get his money back 
under Chargeback or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Amex considered what happened. It raised a chargeback which was defended by the
Website. It also argued that the required relationship (Debtor, Creditor, Supplier) set out in
the CCA wasnt in place. So Amex concluded it didnt need to do more. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Amex position, so he brought him complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Amex didnt have to do anymore. And Mr L remained unhappy and so 
this complaint came to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision at the beginning of July 2023 saying Amex didnt have to do 
more and inviting the parties to respond. Amex responded saying it had nothing further to 
add. No response was received by this service from Mr L before the deadline set out had 
passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has chosen to contend my thinking in my provisional decision I see no 
persuasive reason to depart from it. Accordingly for this and the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision (below) Mr Ls complaint does not succeed.
As Mr L used his credit card if certain criteria are met, Amex can have certain responsibilities
to Mr L which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing
Mr L to hold Amex liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to
the agreement made. In essence Amex can be held responsible for a like claim as that
which Mr L would have against the Website.
Mr Ls Amex credit card is also part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Amex a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as
the Website, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, and it
is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without Amex having done
anything wrong.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a Chargeback?
Mr L has been clear that he used his card here and doesnt dispute the amount charged,
when it was charged, or whether it was applied correctly to his account. So I dont think
Amex couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr L didnt properly authorise the
transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it
thinks there is no longer a reasonable prospect of success.
Having considered Mr Ls bank statement which covered the transaction in question its clear
Mr L paid the Website rather than the Hotel. And when Amex raised the chargeback it went
to the Website, the merchant of record, not the Hotel. Ive considered the Websites terms 
and conditions which make clear the Website acts as a marketplace introducing its 
customers to Hotel services and aiding in booking those services. And it makes clear in its 
terms that Mr L agreed to that:
we and our Partners will not be liable for:
(Not relevant in this case)
for the acts, errors, omissions, representations, warranties or negligence of any such 
Travel Providers (the Hotel).
The Hotel description provided by the Hotel to the Website is covered under this exclusion in
terms of its representations. The terms go on to say:
The Travel Providers (the Hotel) provide us with information describing the Travel Services
(the Hotels amenities, rooms etc). This information includes Travel Service details, photos,
rates and the relevant Rules and Restrictions, etc. We display this information through our
Service. The Travel Providers are responsible for ensuring that such information is accurate,
complete and up to date.
In essence the terms and conditions Mr L agreed to, makes clear that he cannot hold the
Website liable for any representations or information provided by the Hotel to the Website.
Amex raised a chargeback, which the Website defended. In its response, the Website said it
contacted the Hotel and the Hotel confirmed that Mr L stayed for the full duration of his
booking. The Website also said that the Hotel had told it that Mr L didnt complain to the 
Hotel during his stay. The Website also points out that Mr L never contacted it during his
stay and thus the Website didnt have opportunity to deal with the matter. Amex considered
this chargeback response alongside what Mr L had said. And decided to no longer continue
with the chargeback process.
Ive considered what happened here. And I note that the Website cannot be held liable under 
the contract for what the Hotel says about its amenities including comments such as that the 
rooms are soundproofed. So considering the terms and conditions present and the
response received to the chargeback Im not persuaded Mr L has lost out because of the
chargeback having not been taken further. So to my mind Mr L didnt lose out because Amex 
didnt continue with chargeback as it wouldnt have been successful anyway.Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. Amex has said its not
persuaded that the required Debtor, Creditor, Supplier relationship was in place. But Im not
persuaded by Amexs interpretation of the legal position here as Ill explain later. Although I 
should add that this isnt at the crux of the matter for the reasons Ill now explain.
For Amex to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that there
was a breach the contract or a material misrepresentation that led to loss.
Mr L paid the Website for this accommodation. The contract he agreed to with the Website
makes clear that the terms of the Hotel are incorporated within the contract he agreed with
the Website. (These terms define Travel Providers as those providing services to the
Websites customers such as Hotels.)
As well as these Terms, other terms and conditions provided by Travel Providers (such as a
propertys terms and conditions) also apply to your booking (Rules and Restrictions)
In essence the Hotels rules and restrictions are incorporated into the agreement Mr L had
with the Website. And accordingly in relation to this particular Website it is clear that Mr L
only has one contract in place and that is with the Website and that incorporates within its
rules any specific additional rules that the Hotel requires.
So in short the contract Mr L agreed for this accommodation includes a term making clear Mr
L cant hold the Website responsible for the representations made about the Hotel on the
Website. Accordingly even if I was persuaded that the room was advertised as
soundproofed and that that meant the room was always totally silent and advertised as
such (which Im not), Mr L had already agreed to terms prior to utilising the Hotel which
meant the Website couldnt be held responsible for any resulting loss. So it is my decision
that this complaint should be unsuccessful for this reason alone. And due to the Websites
terms and conditions including those of the Hotel, Im not persuaded by Amexs arguments
here about the Debtor Creditor Supplier agreement not being in place, although for the
above and following reasons this issue isnt at the crux of the matter here.
I appreciate Mr L will not be pleased with this rationale, but Amex can only be held
responsible under a like claim to that Mr L would have legally against the Website. And hes
agreed to the above terms in entering the contract so any direct claim against the Website
would fail for this reason. So Im not persuaded Amex has treated him unfairly by not
refunding him, albeit for different reasons than those Ive given.
For the sake of completeness I should add that Im not persuaded by Mr Ls arguments
regarding what soundproofed means. An ordinary reading of the word is that there has 
been some degree of work done at some point to reduce the impact of external noise on
those inside of such a soundproofed room. Im not persuaded that it means Mr L is
guaranteed total silence or freedom from all external noise throughout his stay.
But even if I thought Mr Ls arguments as to the meaning of the term here had some merit,
Id be applying the terms of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to the service being provided
which are required to be provided with reasonable care and skill. The Act doesnt define
what this means intentionally. But in the accompanying explanatory notes regarding Section
49 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 subsection 244 notes The price paid for the service
can also be a factor in determining the level of care and skill that needs to be exercised in
order to be reasonable.Mr L paid just over £340 for eleven nights of accommodation for one person. Even
considering that the Hotel was abroad and pricing structures are different in countries such
as the one here, Im of the view that this was at the lower end of the market price for Hotel
rooms in the region for such a length of stay. Accordingly I think bearing in mind the price
here it would be reasonable to have some noise levels here that had they been occurring in
a mid-range or expensive hotels would not have been reasonable. But as Ive explained
earlier, Mr Ls complaint falls at the first hurdle, he accepted terms which meant the Website
and hence Amex couldnt be held liable for representations made by the Hotel which were
repeated on the Website.
Mr L describes the room as being not as described. Here Mr L is referring to the legislation
regarding goods in the Consumer Rights Act. However the provision of hotel accommodation
and services doesnt meet the definition of good under the legislation. Accordingly the
provision around services applies in this case as Ive described.
Lastly I should add that Mr L has asked for a full refund here. However he stayed in the room
for the entirety of his stay. So even if Mr Ls arguments were persuasive, any remedy would
have to consider that he used his accommodation booking entirely. Accordingly any remedy
for noise would be notional to negligible considering the substantial benefit hes had from the
performance of the contract-namely occupying the accommodation for eleven nights.
Amex did pay Mr L £100 for the customer service it provided. Ive considered what
happened here and I think that is a fair solution to that particular issue.
Mr L has pointed to Amexs comments about not accepting certain types of evidence. Amex
has given reasons for this including its cyber security. The fact remains Amex is liable to like
claims and such types of evidence are considered in courts. However in this case Mr L has
described in his arguments the issue with the room to Amex, so Im not persuaded this issue
has caused Mr L any loss other than understandable irritation. To my mind such irritation is
covered by the amount paid by Amex already to reflect the customer service provided as it is 
part of the overall customer service he received from it.
For the above reasons Im satisfied Mr Ls complaint should not succeed. Amex has nothing 
further to do in this regard.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about American Express Services Europe Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in regard of Mr Ls complaint here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman