DRN-4270353
The complaint
Mr S complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) removed the auto-
renewal option on his buildings insurance policy and that it said the policy didnt renew and it 
wont reinstate it. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr S had a buildings insurance policy underwritten by LV. He asked it to 
automatically renew the policy at the end of the period of insurance and provided 
card details to facilitate this.
At renewal in 2021, Mr Ss card had expired so LV couldnt take payment for the 
policy renewal. LV let Mr S know and he got in contact to make payment on another 
card and cover continued. Following this change in card details, the automatic 
renewal option was removed by LV but it didnt make Mr S aware of this.
In July 2022 he got in contact with LV to make a claim on the policy but it explained 
the policy hadnt been renewed in May 2022 and was no longer in force. Mr S 
complained to LV.
It said it had made it clear to Mr S he needed to make contact to arrange renewal 
and despite several reminders it hadnt heard from him or received payment so it 
hadnt been able to renew the policy.
Mr S brought a complaint to this Service as it was his belief the policy remained in 
force as he hadnt asked for the automatic renewal to be removed. Our Investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She thought LV had acted fairly in not renewing the 
cover after it didnt receive contact from Mr S or payment of the premium despite 
sending a number of communications to him letting him know he needed to take 
action to renew the policy.
Mr V disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how complaints should be 
settled quickly and with minimum formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and may not comment on everything the parties have said but I can 
confirm I have considered everything even where I dont reference it specifically in my 
decision.
It seems LV didnt let Mr S know the automatic renewal option had been removed 
following the problems with the payment card in 2021. This was seemingly due to an 
administrative error following the earlier problems. Clearly, LV should have told Mr S 
the policy wouldnt renew next time, but didnt.
But I have to consider what action LV took at renewal to inform Mr S about the 
requirements to renew the policy and whether this should reasonably have alerted 
him to the need to take action or at least contact LV to make enquires about the 
issue.
Ive seen the information LV sent Mr S in May 2022 prior to renewal of the policy. 
This clearly explains Mr S needs to take action:
Your LV insurance policy wont renew unless you contact usYour cover is 
set to end at 11.59pm on 31 May 2022.
Three weeks after this, LV sent a further reminder which stated:
Reminder, you need to contact us to renew your LV home insuranceas 
your cover ends at 11.59pm on 31 May 2022.
LV sent one further reminder by text message to Mr Ss mobile.
In his testimony, Mr S acknowledges he received these communications so Im 
satisfied LV sent them appropriately and to the correct place.
Mr S says he assumes he didnt read them at the time they were received but says 
even if he had seen the emails, he would have assumed there was no need to take 
action because he still believed the auto renewal was on the policy. Ive thought 
carefully about this and Im satisfied there was enough in the communications from 
LV that a reasonable person would have realised they needed to take action to 
ensure the policy renewed and that without this, the policy cover would end.
We would expect policyholders to engage with renewal communications from 
insurers and Mr S could simply have made a call to LV to enquire whether there was 
a problem with renewal if he was still uncertain after the three reminders.
Mr S highlights that LV didnt send him a cancellation notice to alert him to the policy 
cover ceasing in 2022 whereas it had in 2021. I think the difference here is that in 
2021, the policy was set to automatically renew, so in effect, Mr S had already 
confirmed he wished to renew the policy and accepted the terms to do so. So when 
the policy renewed and the payment wasnt received due to the problems with the 
card, the policy was in force and therefore had to be cancelled, hence the 
cancellation notice.
But in 2022, without the automatic renewal in place, the cover would only continue if 
Mr S made contact with LV to confirm acceptance of the terms. So, in this case, as 
he didnt do that, the policy cover merely ended - in line with LVs communications - 
at the stated time on 31 May 2022 and so there was no need to send a cancellation 
notice. That said, Im satisfied the three warnings the policy would end were 
effectively cancellation warnings anyway  they amount to the same thing.
In summary, while LV made an error in removing the automatic renewal and not 
informing Mr S, Im satisfied the subsequent action it took in alerting him to the need 
for him to take action to ensure policy renewal was reasonable. I wont be asking LV to reinstate the policy or do anymore on this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman