DRN-3224828
Summary and background to the complaint 
Mrs J and Mr S are unhappy Soteria Insurance Limited have declined a claim they made 
under their home insurance policy. 
Mrs J and Mr S made a claim for subsidence as they noticed cracking in their porch and that 
it was coming away from the main building. Soteria instructed a loss adjuster to provide a 
report on the damage and its likely cause. The report identified the porch had been altered 
from its original open plan structure, with a tiled roof being added and it being enclosed 
using a single skin of brickwork. It suggested the foundations may not have been adequate 
for the ground conditions and local vegetation. It also suggested that it hadnt been designed 
correctly as it had not been tied to the property or designed in a way to resist lateral restraint. 
As part of the loss adjusters investigations it was also identified there was damage to 
drainage pipes serving the property. 
Soteria considered the report and declined to cover the claim based on exclusions for in the 
policy for poor workmanship, for the porch. And, gradual damage/wear and tear for the 
drains. 
Mrs J and Mr S disagreed and one of our investigators considered the complaint. She 
explained to Mrs J and Mr S that she thought Soteria had acted reasonably in declining the 
claim. Mrs J and Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
We dont usually think it unreasonable for insurers to rely on the opinion of experts, 
and I havent seen anything to lead me to think I should depart from that approach in 
this case.
The loss adjuster has commented on the design of the porch suggesting it was 
flawed. The report points out the single skin brickwork has not been tied to the 
property nor were any provisions made to resist lateral movement. The report also 
makes mention of previous potential subsidence movement to the property and how 
this should have been taken into account in any new structures. 
I havent seen a comparable report which conflicts this conclusion and such I dont 
think Soterias conclusion to decline the claim to the porch due to poor workmanship 
was unreasonable. The policy contains this exclusion and I think, based on the 
experts report and how quickly the damage occurred after the porch was built it, 
wasnt an unreasonable conclusion. 
As I think Soteria have acted reasonably in declining the porch claim, I havent 
considered further whether points regarding previous movement of the property were 
valid, as this is not central to my decision. 
The loss adjusters report also comments the underground pipes have failed due to 
wear and tear. Again, this is an exclusion on the policy, and I think Soteria have 
acted reasonably in relying on it. The policy does provide cover to underground pipes 
due to accidental damage, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that was the 
case or the damage happened suddenly as would have been required by that term. 
Soteria have acknowledged there were delays in the claim progressing and a lack of 
communication, both of which would have caused distress to Mrs J and Mr S. It 
offered £200 compensation for this. Having considered everything, I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs J and Mr Ss complaint against Soteria 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman