DRN-1827541
The complaint
Mr N complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy and wouldnt reinstate it.
All references to Watford also include its agents.
What happened
In mid-August 2019, Mr N leased a car through a third party, who in turn got it through their 
employee benefit scheme. Around the same time, he took out a motor insurance policy with 
Watford. As part of the online application form, Mr N was asked who the registered keeper 
and the legal owner of the car would be. Mr N answered that he would be both the legal 
owner and registered keeper.  
In November 2019, Mr N had an accident and called Watford to make a claim. During the 
process of making the claim Mr N gave Watford the details of the registered keeper and 
legal owner of the car - however this didnt match what hed said when applying for the 
insurance policy. 
So, Watford wrote to Mr N in early December 2019, giving him seven days notice that they 
intended to cancel the policy. They said that as there had been a known breach of the policy, 
they were no longer happy to provide the cover, and he should seek cover elsewhere. 
They also said that they wouldnt be paying Mr Ns claim but would be looking to recover any 
costs from him that theyd be obligated to pay to the other parties as they felt hed been 
reckless when completing the online application. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair, so he made a complaint. He said that he hadnt deliberately 
filled in the online application incorrectly, but he had a disability that impeded his reading 
which meant hed maybe mis-read the question. He didnt agree that hed completed the 
application recklessly and said that hed checked insurance quotes which said there was 
little difference in premiums if hed completed the application correctly - so hed have been 
happy to pay more for the policy. 
Watford didnt uphold complaint. They said that they wouldnt have insured Mr N if theyd 
known that the car was owned and registered by two different third parties. They also said 
that they felt Mr N had been reckless as he wouldnt have been the registered keeper or 
legal owner at any point. Watford also noted that the lease car agreement said that the 
leasehold company whod supplied the car to the third party, needed to be noted on any 
insurance policy as the legal owner of the car. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. He said that although Mr Ns 
disability could have had impact on how hed completed the on-line form, he couldnt say for 
certain this was the case. However, he thought that Watford had acted in-line with their 
terms and conditions, and he was satisfied that they wouldnt have provided the cover if 
theyd been aware of the ownership of the car. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mr N has said that he didnt intend to give incorrect information when he completed the 
online form, and that because of his disability he was confused by the questions and 
answered them incorrectly. He explained that hed been honest about the other information 
he provided so he feels this shows it was a genuine mistake. 
Its not my role to decide whether Mr Ns disability had an impact on how he completed the 
online application - or by how much. What I need to decide is whether or not Watford treated 
Mr N unfairly by cancelling his policy and not paying his claim. In this case I dont think they 
have. Ill explain why.  
Looking at the policy booklet, I can see that it says on page three that this contract of 
insurance is based on the answers and any other information You gave us when taking out 
cover it also says you are required  to take reasonable care to answer all questions 
asked honestly, accurately and to the best of Your knowledge..Failure to supply accurate 
and complete answers may mean Your Policy is invalid and that it does not operate in the 
event of a claim. 
I recognise Mr Ns feels he hadnt acted recklessly, and that it was unfair of Watford to 
cancel the policy on this basis. However, Mr N has told us that hed previously had motor 
insurance, so I think he ought reasonably to have been aware of the type of information that 
was going to be asked before taking out the insurance. 
Watford have explained that the reason they feel Mr Ns misrepresentation was reckless, 
rather than careless, is because at no point would he have been the registered owner or 
keeper of the car. Theyve also provided a copy of the lease documentation which was given 
to the third party whod obtained which says IMPORTANT INSURANCE, When you obtain 
vehicle insurance for your scheme vehicle please notify your insurer of the following: a) The 
customer named on the Credit Sale Agreement (i.e. the employee) is the LEGAL OWNER of the vehicle; b) The employee is NOT THE REGISTERED KEEPER, the registered keeper 
is (the name of the third party employer) . So, Mr N would have already had access to the 
information he needed to answer the questions correctly several weeks before hed made 
the online application.
Looking at the wording of the questions which Mr N said he answered incorrectly, I havent 
seen any evidence that they were misleading, and I think they were clear and in plain 
language. Ive also seen that in the terms of business document that Mr N received, it says, 
if you are unsure of your answer to a particular question, you should make reasonable 
efforts to obtain the information required to answer it correctly and if you have any 
questions. please contact us. 
So, I think it would be reasonable to believe that if Mr N felt his disability might have an 
impact on how he completed the online application - given the importance to the policy of 
providing accurate information - that he would either have called the broker, Watford or 
asked his friends or family to help him confirm the online application was correct. 
I acknowledge that Mr N said he didnt have time to check the policy documents before they 
were sent to the leasing company - as he needed to prove that an insurance policy was in 
place. However, Ive seen that Mr N called Watford to make a claim in November 2019. So 
even if he didnt have an opportunity to check the information was correct on the policy when 
hed first received it, he could have asked someone to check this shortly afterwards. This 
would have given Watford the opportunity to decide if they wanted to insure him before a 
claim took place.  
Mr N has said that he feels if hed provided Watford with the correct information that they 
would have been able to obtain a policy through them. And therefore, his policy shouldnt 
have been cancelled because he filled in the application incorrectly. But Ive seen a copy of 
the underwriting criteria which Watford use and Im satisfied that they wouldnt have offered 
Mr N a policy if hed answered the online application correctly.
Therefore, looking at all the evidence available, Im satisfied that Mr Ns misrepresentation 
should be treated as reckless. Ive looked at the actions Watford can take in accordance with 
CIDRA, and Im satisfied that they were entitled to avoid Mr Ns policy, keep any premiums, 
and not pay any claims, as effectively the policy never existed. Im also satisfied that Watford 
may also look to recover any costs its paid to a third party on any claim after the 
misrepresentation. 
I recognise that Mr N feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that Watford treated Mr N 
unfairly by cancelling his policy in the way that they have. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman