DRN-1886758
 
The complaint
Mr I complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didn't provide him with a cheque book 
when he opened a new account with it and that he was unable to request one through online 
channels.
What happened
Mr I opened an account with RBS. He was expecting to be provided with a cheque book, but 
none arrived. He was unable to order one online and so had to contact the bank by 
telephone. He was unhappy with the way that call was handled and that he was told he 
could only question the bank's process by raising a complaint.  
RBS explained that, whilst replacement cheque books can be ordered online, it requires new 
customers to order their first one by telephone.
Mr I referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. Whilst she 
acknowledged that Mr I had been unhappy with some of the terminology the bank had used, 
she didn't think he'd been treated unfairly. Mr I didn't accept the investigator's findings and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service won't usually interfere in a bank's legitimate exercise of 
its commercial discretion. It's primarily for account providers to decide how to run their 
business and it's not for a dispute resolution body such as the ombudsman to tell them to 
operate in a different way. In my view it was legitimate for RBS to decide not to provide 
cheque books as a matter of routine, but only to send them to customers who requested 
them. I accept that Mr I hadn't appreciated that he would have to ask for a cheque book, but 
the account terms did explain that - and the bank hadn't told him that he would receive a 
cheque book.
When Mr I called to ask for a cheque book, he was told this was so the bank could record his 
customer preferences. He was unhappy with the terminology used. I agree that the bank 
could simply have said that it had noted he wanted to have a cheque book, but I don't 
believe the call was handled poorly. 
Mr I says too that RBS didn't deal with his complaint as it should have done. It seems that he 
may not have received the bank's final response letter, but I'm satisfied it was sent to him 
within a couple of days of him raising his concerns. Since Mr I had expressed dissatisfaction 
with the service he'd received, the regulator's rules required the bank to treat those concerns 
as a complaint and to provide him with a response to them - which I'm satisfied it did.    
My final decisionFor the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I don't require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to do anything further to resolve Mr I's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman