DRN-1184851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were mis-sold their contents insurance policy because the 
broker, Intelligent Advisory Services Limited (IAS), didnt adequately explain the 
endorsements on the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P received a home insurance policy renewal reminder email from IAS, but as 
they thought it was too expensive, they called IAS to discuss it. The policy cover and price 
were agreed, and the policy renewed. 
Mr and Mrs P unfortunately suffered a burglary at their home, and some jewellery was 
stolen. Their claim on their home insurance for the jewellery was declined due to a policy 
endorsement, which stated that if the total value of their jewellery and watches exceeded 
£35,000 then any claim due to theft would not be paid unless the jewellery was kept in a 
locked safe when not being worn. 
They complained to IAS that the endorsement was not made sufficiently clear when the 
policy was renewed, and as such the policy was mis-sold. 
IAS did not uphold their complaint. It said it was satisfied Mr and Mrs P were aware of the 
value of their jewellery, that the policy endorsements had been adequately explained both 
verbally and in writing, and it had confirmed that Mr and Mrs P understood the endorsements 
and could comply with them. So, Mr and Mrs P complained to our service.
Our investigator thought IAS had done enough to ensure Mr and Mrs P were aware of the 
policy endorsements, so didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They said 
they didnt fully understand the policy endorsement regarding the £35,000 value limit and 
that IAS should have made it clearer. They also said IAS should have told them the value of 
their jewellery was over this limit and should have given them the opportunity to reduce the 
insured amount, or increase the cover.
So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am that Mr and Mrs P suffered this burglary and recognise it 
was a horrible thing to happen. And to have their claim for their stolen jewellery declined 
must have made it doubly difficult. However, I must decide whether I think, on balance, the 
policy was mis-sold when it was renewed. And I dont think it was.
Mr and Mrs P received their renewal documents, and these included the policy schedule, 
renewal offer statement of fact and the policy terms of business, and they called IAS to 
discuss it. I have listened to this call.
When there are key endorsements or exclusions to an insurance policy, we would expect 
these to be made clear to the consumer by the business selling the policy, and this is 
normally done in writing, as has been done in this case. But here the key endorsements 
have also been verbally explained by IAS. 
Mr and Mrs P have said they didnt know their jewellery was valued at more than £35,000 
and wouldnt have agreed to the endorsement if they did. But having listened to the call, I 
think they probably did understand their value, because Mr P confirmed he was able to 
comply with the endorsement, and store the jewellery adequately as he had two safes at the 
property. And the requirement to use a safe was only applicable if the value was over 
£35,000.
So, having seen that IAS explained the endorsements both in writing and verbally, and 
checked Mr and Mrs P understood them and could comply with them, I am satisfied IAS 
acted fairly, and the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs P have also said IAS should have given them the option to reduce the declared 
value of their jewellery. This would not have been possible as Mr and Mrs P are required to 
declare the true value of their property, to enable an insurance company to properly assess 
the risk. And the £35,000 limit didnt mean their jewellery wasnt insured  it just meant Mr 
and Mrs P had to ensure it was properly stored when not being worn, and as Ive said, Im 
satisfied through what Ive seen and heard, that they knew this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman