DRN-3110116
The complaint
Mr N complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) gave his Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA) incorrect information which negatively impacted the advice he was given about his 
pension plans.
Mr N is represented in his complaint. But Ill generally only reference him in my decision.
  
What happened
Mr N held six Self Employed Deferred Annuity plans with Phoenix. In the run up to his 75th 
birthday on 1 October 2018, he discussed his options for the funds from the plans with his 
IFA. His plans would mature on 1 October 2018.
Mr N and his IFA were provided with different valuations for the plans. On 30 October 2018 
and 2 November 2018 Mr Ns IFA spoke to Phoenix. Phoenix told him that the plans 
attracted 9% each year in compound interest.
But this wasnt right. As Mr N was now over 75, the funds from the plans would actually be 
held on deposit if they werent withdrawn. But given this incorrect information, Mr Ns IFA 
advised him to leave the funds with Phoenix. Mr N said hed intended to transfer the funds 
so he could move them into drawdown. Drawdown wasnt possible within Phoenix.
On 9 November 2018 Phoenix told Mr Ns IFA that if Mr N wanted to put the funds from his 
plans in trust, hed have to set up an individual trust. Mr N already had an established trust 
that Phoenix werent aware of. But in May 2019 when Mr N was getting his new trust 
document approved, Phoenixs error was discovered. 
Phoenix accepted their error. They initially offered Mr N £250 compensation. But increased 
this to £500 when Mr N said that wasnt enough. Mr N has since provided further evidence of 
losses he said were directly caused by Phoenixs error. So Phoenix have to date paid:
£480 for the solicitors costs for setting up the unnecessary trust
£906 for accountants costs in relation to advice on the enhanced valuations and 
setting up a trust
£2.48 for phone call charges and £1.40 for postage costs
£500 for recognition of the poor service and the errors received.
However, Mr N felt Phoenixs error had cost him more than this. He felt that hed missed a 
beneficial tax opportunity in the 2018/2019 tax year. So he felt that Phoenix should provide 
additional compensation for the higher rate of tax hed need to pay in order to put his trust 
back into the position it wouldve been in if the correct advice had been given. He also asked 
for compensation for the investment growth he said hed missed. He said hed intended to 
invest the funds in a bond yielding significantly higher interest than hed actually earned 
within Phoenix. 
But Phoenix said Mr N hadnt provided enough evidence showing what he wouldve done 
with his pension funds in 2018 if theyd provided the correct information. So they didnt agree 
his request for further compensation. 
In order to meet Phoenixs evidence requirements, Mr N provided a letter from his 
accountant confirming that if hed drawn down £20,000 as a pension payment in the year 
ending 5 April 2019, hed have remained within the basic rate tax band. But Phoenix said 
this wasnt proof of earnings. And that theyd need a P45 or a tax code instead.
Mr Ns IFA submitted an updated claim for compensation on 21 November 2019. This 
requested:
£4,000 compensation for the tax issues
£1,590.17 for lost investment growth
£354 for accountants costs for providing the tax information
On 20 January 2020 Phoenix declined to pay the additional compensation requested. They 
said that the screenshot of the possible intended investment Mr N had considered wasnt 
enough. They said they required evidence of Mr Ns pre-existing trust. And asked why hed 
needed to open a new one. And theyd said they couldnt accept the accountants letter as 
proof of earnings. They also provided referral rights to this service.
On 23 January 2020 Mr N replied to Phoenix. He suggested that they reviewed their 
evidential requests. He said that they shouldnt need the information theyd requested as he 
felt it wasnt relevant to the problems theyd caused him. He said that Phoenix had 
suggested that the new trust be set up. And argued that it made no sense for them to 
challenge his income, as he felt the tax point hed made was clear.
On 25 January 2020 Phoenix issued their final response to Mr N. They said they couldnt 
agree to additional compensation without evidence of what he wouldve done with his 
pension funds. But they agreed that their error had caused the new trust to be set up. They 
confirmed that they couldnt accept the accountants letter of 7 November 2019 as proof of 
earnings. But that they would need Mr Ns tax code for this.
Mr N transferred his funds from Phoenix on 9 March 2020. And began the process to 
drawdown the funds. 
Unhappy with Phoenixs response, Mr N referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr N confirmed to this service that he hadnt incurred a higher rate tax charge due to 
Phoenixs error. As he minimised drawdown to avoid the higher rate of tax. But that this 
meant hed still not completed the drawdown as hed intended. And that he didnt invest in 
the bond hed investigated as the rates offered had worsened.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She was satisfied that Phoenix had already put 
things right by paying the necessary costs. She didnt think it was possible to confirm exactly 
where Mr N wouldve invested the maturing funds. And she felt that the compensation theyd 
paid was appropriate.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators findings as balanced or reasonable. He didnt feel that 
£500 compensation was enough under the circumstances. He submitted an updated claim 
for the costs hed incurred because of Phoenixs error as follows:£456.77 Lost transfer value 
£2,150 Lost Interest
£354 Accountant's Letter Fee 
So his complaint has come to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 15 September 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that its not possible to 
confirm exactly where Mr N wouldve invested the maturing funds had he received the 
correct information from the start. But I consider that its more likely than not that he wouldve 
invested them in a way that wouldve provided him with a better return than the one he 
actually received. Ill explain why.
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or fine businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
I dont need to decide here whether something has gone wrong. Phoenix have accepted that 
they gave incorrect information to Mr Ns IFA. So whats left for me to decide is what that 
mistake has cost Mr N. Both in terms of actual expenses he had to cover due to the error, 
and any financial losses incurred directly because of the error. This will direct what Phoenix 
need to do to put things right. So I need to work out what wouldve happened if Mr Ns IFA 
hadnt been given incorrect information. 
Phoenix have paid Mr Ns solicitors costs and accountants cost for setting up a new trust for 
the pension policies, which he wouldnt have needed had his IFA been given the correct 
information. They also reimbursed him for calls and postage. And have paid him £500 
compensation for their error.
But Mr N didnt think this put him back to the position he wouldve been in if the correct 
information had been given in the first place. 
His latest claim for additional compensation is as follows:
Accountant's Letter Fee £ 354
Value of Lost Investment Opportunity/Lost Transfer Value £2,486.70
Less Interest already paid £ 643.79
So there are effectively four remaining areas of disagreement between Mr N and Phoenix:
the fee for the accountants letter
lost investment opportunitywhether there was a loss to his transfer value, and
the level of interest Mr N shouldve been credited with.
Ill look at the accountants letter first. 
Should Phoenix pay for the accountants letter?
Mr N said that based on his accountant's calculations, hed minimised drawdown on a yearly 
basis to approximately £20,000. And that this had allowed him to avoid the higher rate of tax. 
Mr Ns said that our investigator relied on this letter in her view when she said: This is 
supported by the letter from his accountant and I don't dispute this would have happened. 
He therefore feels that Phoenix should cover the cost of the letter. He also feels that Phoenix 
shouldve accepted the letter as proof of earnings. 
But Phoenix didnt ask Mr N to provide an accountants letter. They asked for his proof of 
earnings through a P45 or his tax code. Mr N said he had neither. But I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for Phoenix to ask for evidence from HMRC. They didnt use the information 
the accountants letter contained. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Phoenix 
to cover its cost.  
The loss of a years income
Its Mr Ns position that the only reason he didnt move into the higher rate tax bracket was 
because he didnt make up for the pension fund withdrawal which he wouldve taken, had he 
been aware of that the information hed been given about the investment returns was 
incorrect.
Im sympathetic to this point, but on the basis of my findings in the section below, which aims 
to compensate Mr N for the loss of a higher return on the funds which he left within his 
pension funds - and which wouldve meant it was less likely he wouldve withdrawn the funds 
- I think this point is then adequately addressed. 
Ill now look at whether the value of the funds eventually transferred was correct.
Should the value of funds that Mr N eventually transferred have been bigger?
Mr N disagreed with the compensation claim his IFA had submitted to Phoenix. That had 
stated that his plans had grown in value between October 2018 and August 2019. And that 
the change had been from £89,460 to £89,792.23.
He said that the Phoenix letter dated 17 May 2018 stated that the retirement value on 1 
October 2018 would be £90,249. So he said that there was a loss in value of £456.77. 
Ive looked at the illustration Mr N referred to. I agree it does give an illustrated value of 
£90,249.00 on 1 October 2018. But it stated: this value, which may include bonus, is not 
guaranteed. The actual value at 1 October 2018 was £89,460. The actual value in August 
2019 was £89,792.23. These were the figures Mr Ns IFA used in their compensation claim. 
Phoenix have confirmed that these are correct and Ive no reason to believe that their 
calculation is wrong. So Im satisfied that there was no loss in the transfer value. 
So Ill now look at Mr Ns complaint about lost interest.
Should Phoenix compensate Mr N for lost interest?When considering whats fair and reasonable, I have to take into account relevant law. So in 
reaching my decision, Ive thought about the general legal position relating to causation and 
foreseeability. This says that where a business is at fault, losses are generally recoverable 
where they occurred as a direct result of the business error and were a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of that error. 
So in order for me to say that Phoenix are responsible for Mr N missing out on a better 
investment return, Id need to find that there was a loss and it was a direct result of 
Phoenixs actions. And that the loss was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of those 
actions. 
Mr N said that Phoenixs decision to decline his claim for tax compensation required him to 
decide not to make a second drawdown in the same tax year in order to avoid attracting the 
higher rate tax band. He said this delay meant that the opportunity to invest was also 
delayed by 16 months, which was the time from maturity of the policies to payment of the 
matured funds.  
He said hed planned to invest the funds in such a way that he wouldve earned around 5% 
interest each year. He also said that the investment hed provided the screenshot for had 
become less attractive during the period of delay in obtaining the value of his policies. 
Mr N provided a screenshot showing details of a fund he said he planned to invest in. But 
Ive seen no further evidence to show that this is what he actually agreed with his IFA before 
Phoenix gave them the incorrect information. Mr Ns IFA was looking into the best options 
available to him after receiving his July 2018 e-mail, but a final decision was never 
confirmed. 
Mr N himself said in his letter to Phoenix dated 23 January 2020 that hed included 
documents indicating his search for and possible intended investment route. He also 
noted: I had the foresight to take evidence of the bond I might alternatively purchase. Ive 
highlighted wording which I consider shows that Mr N wasnt settled on his intended 
investment path at this point. But I am persuaded that Mr N wouldve invested the maturing 
funds in a way that wouldve yielded a higher return than Phoenix provided.
Mr N asked what this service believes would otherwise have happened to his money. He 
questioned whether this service believes he would leave such a large sum of money in a 
non-interest-bearing account for 16 months. He pointed to the fact that he holds many 
separate savings/investment accounts to show that he wouldnt have left his funds 
uninvested. Mr N also said that this service didnt consider that: even Phoenix 
acknowledged payment of interest for the 16 months, albeit at the lowest possible rate 
applicable in 2020. 
The incorrect information was given at the end of October/start of November 2018. And the 
money was finally transferred out of Phoenix in March 2020. So there was a 16-month 
period when Mr N wasnt invested in the way he said hed intended to be.
Phoenix have paid interest over the period in question. And without evidence of where the 
money wouldve otherwise been invested its difficult to calculate a fair level of 
compensation. I do acknowledge that Mr N said that it was impossible for him to provide 
such evidence. I agree this is the case here. Im unable to definitively say what he wouldve 
done with the money. I cant calculate the precise lost investment return as there are too 
many unknowns about where and when Mr N wouldve invested his money. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive been provided, I think Mr Ns lost investment 
opportunity was directly caused by Phoenixs error. I consider that he decided not to transfer his funds based on the incorrect information hed been given. 
So I do intend to ask Phoenix to top up the interest they paid him over the 16 months in 
question. To recognise that Mr N wouldve, on balance of probabilities, invested in such a 
way that he wouldve earned more interest. 
Mr N has told this service where he went on to invest the money he withdrew from Phoenix. 
So Ive used this information as the basis for the fair compensation calculation Im intending 
to ask Phoenix to carry out. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr N would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
wouldve done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Phoenix do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Phoenix must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Phoenix should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Phoenix should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Phoenix is unable to pay the compensation into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr N would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Phoenix deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Phoenix should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Deferred transferred for half the 
investment: FTSE 1 November 9 March 2020 8% simple per 
year on any loss Annuity Plans UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bonds2018 from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Phoenix 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mr N paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Phoenix totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that Mr N 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude. The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ill now consider the amount Phoenix paid Mr N in recognition of the poor service they gave 
him. 
Phoenix initially offered £250. But increased this to £500. I consider that this level of 
compensation is reasonable under the individual circumstances, including the likely impact 
on Mr N personally and the steps which Phoenix have taken to put things right. So I wont be 
asking Phoenix to pay additional compensation for the level of service it provided.
In summary, I agree, as do Phoenix, that they shouldve given Mr Ns IFA the correct 
information in the first place. Had they done so, Mr N wouldnt have needed to set up an 
additional trust. But Phoenix have reimbursed him for the cost of setting that up. Theyve 
paid him back for the cost of some calls and postage. Phoenix also apologised to Mr N and 
gave him £500 for the trouble and inconvenience it caused him, which I consider to be fair 
and reasonable under the circumstances. But I intend to ask Phoenix to calculate and pay to 
Mr N the additional interest that I consider he wouldve achieved if he hadnt been given the 
incorrect information.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Phoenix had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr N provided detailed extra arguments in which he felt:
Phoenix should pay for his accountants letter
The investment return Id proposed to use to calculate redress should be changed to 
better reflect the investments hed chosen
The compensation Phoenix had offered for distress and inconvenience didnt fairly 
reflect what hed been through
Mr N also noted that my provisional decision had incorrectly stated that Phoenix had asked 
him for a tax code in their 20 January 2020 letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N provided a detailed explanation about why he disagreed with my view that Phoenix 
dont need to refund him for the cost of his accountants letter. Ill cover this point first.
Should Phoenix pay for the accountants letter?
Mr N said that my provisional decision was incorrect when it stated that Phoenix initially 
required a P45 or tax code. He said Phoenix originally requested a P45 or P60 and there 
was no mention of a tax code. He also said that Phoenix requested a P45 in their 20 January 
2020 letter. And that they changed their requirement to a tax code in their letter dated 25 
February 2020. Mr N provided a letter to Phoenix dated 7 November 2019 from his accountants. He said that 
he provided this letter to provide the information Phoenix needed. And that the accountant's 
letter: was an unnecessary expense obtained in good faith to satisfy Phoenix, the cost of 
which should be reimbursed. 
I acknowledge that Mr N feels very strongly about this. But unfortunately I still dont agree 
that Phoenix should be asked to cover the cost of the accountants letter. Their 25 February 
2020 letter to Mr N noted that he didnt have a P45. So instead asked him to: forward any 
other correspondence from HMRC confirming your tax code as proof of earnings. 
I still consider that it was reasonable for Phoenix to ask for proof of earnings given Mr Ns 
complaint. And I would normally expect that request to be relatively easy to fulfil. So I dont 
consider it to be a particularly onerous or impossible request. Phoenix neither asked for, nor 
used the information the accountants letter contained. So I remain of the view that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Phoenix to cover its cost.  
Ill now cover the points Mr N made about the investment return Id proposed to use to 
calculate redress.
Does the redress I set out in my provisional decision fairly reflect the lost investment 
return?
Mr N disputed the following statement from my provisional decision: I cant calculate the 
precise lost investment return as there are too many unknowns about where and when Mr N 
wouldve invested his money. He said that hed provided evidence of the 6% [name] bond 
so that there could be no debate regarding applicable rates at the time. He also provided 
other points that he felt confirmed how he planned to invest. 
Mr N told this service in January 2021 that the bond hed been interested in investing in had 
reduced its rate of interest so was no longer attractive. He said: It was intended as an 
interim investment, eventually to be transferred to a trust. Mr N has confirmed that the funds 
removed from Phoenix have now been invested in a trust.
Mr N said in his 27 April 2021 email to this service: Using the prevailing interest rate 
illustration provided by the [name bond] screen shot, the direct loss was approximately 
£23,000 + £20,000 at 5% interest which amounts to £2,150.00.  So at this point he updated 
his claim for lost interest to £2,150.
In his 26 May 2021 email to this service, Mr N: The FOS has placed emphasis on my 
consideration of investing in [name bond] but it was never my intention to invest more than 
£10K in what I considered to be a higher risk venture, I am too cautious for that. 
And in his 30 May 2021 email to this service, Mr N repeated this claim. He said: I have 
previously demonstrated that a rate of 5% was appropriate over the 2018/2019 period and 
this figure should be used as shown in the updated claim.
But in September 2021 Mr N told this service where hed eventually invested the funds hed 
taken out of Phoenix. He told us that the returns those funds wouldve achieved was greater 
than the amount originally claimed.
Mr N disagreed that he wouldve invested in fixed rate bonds. He felt that the redress should 
reflect the actual returns that hed achieved in the investments hed made after withdrawing 
his funds from Phoenix.
Considering Mr Ns disagreement, Ive revisited the information I have. A 26 April 2021 email 
from Mr Ns chosen investment provider said: In terms of how you have structured your portfolio: your main desire is to ensure you can have a blended portfolio and spread some 
of the risk exposure. All 3 of these portfolios would be at the lower end of the risk scale and 
do fit your criteria for investing. 
In his 27 April 2021 response to our investigators view, Mr N confirmed that: My actual 
initial investment was mostly in the Cautious and Conservative portfolios offering average 
yearly returns of more than 4% and currently earning nearer 5%. So I reviewed the 
investment portfolios Mr N had invested in. 33.5% of the Cautious portfolio is invested in 
cash and bonds, then 16.5% hedge, 40% equities and 10% property and commodities. For 
the Conservative portfolio its 40% cash and bonds, 20% hedge, 28% equities and 12% 
property and commodities.
Based on the evidence, I still consider that its not possible to identify precisely where or 
what Mr N wouldve invested in, and when and how much he wouldve invested, if things 
hadnt gone wrong. I acknowledge that Mr N has invested somewhere. But I dont agree that 
hes shown he was always going to invest exactly in that place, at that time. From what Ive 
seen, Mr N has himself said he is a cautious investor. And hes shown that hes changed his 
mind about investing in certain ways due to changing financial conditions. His claim for 
redress for investment return has also changed over time. All of this confirms to me that it 
wasnt certain that he wouldve invested where he did, if things hadnt gone wrong.
In cases like this one, this service selects what we consider an appropriate benchmark, 
based on the customers attitude to risk, to model how the funds mightve performed.
Although Mr N has disputed that he wouldve invested in fixed rate bonds, Ive seen 
evidence that he does invest in them. His current portfolio allocation is a fairly even mixture 
of fixed rate bonds and equities. So I cant agree that my proposed benchmark is unfair or 
unrepresentative of the assets Mr N is currently invested in. 
In summary, while I acknowledge that Mr N wont agree, I still consider that the benchmark 
Ive chosen to be used to calculate the investment loss is fair and reasonable. 
I acknowledge and accept Mr Ns points about there no longer being a pension plan. And will 
update the wording in my suggested redress appropriately.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr N would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr N's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Phoenix do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Phoenix must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Phoenix should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Phoenix should pay that amount direct to Mr N. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr N is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr N would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Phoenix deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Phoenix should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Deferred 
Annuity 
Planstransferredfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds1 November 
20189 March 
20208% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Phoenix 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital. I say this based on how Mr 
N has invested the funds from Phoenix 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that Mr N 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
Ill now look at the compensation Phoenix has offered for distress and inconvenience 
considering Mr Ns additional comments.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr N said: The statement that £500 is reasonable compensation is utter nonsense and 
could be construed as discriminatory. This saga has been going on for a considerable time 
involving me in time, telephone calls, copy paper and ink, stress and anxiety, none of which 
have been costed following the initial payment by Phoenix. He felt that the offer was 
insulting. 
Mr N also said that this services proposed solution to put him back to the position he 
wouldve been in had the error not occurred didnt do that: either mentally or financially.
Phoenix initially offered £250. But increased this to £500. Despite what Mr N has said, I still 
consider that this level of compensation is reasonable under the individual circumstances. 
From what Ive seen, Phoenix accepted their mistake. They refunded costs Mr N wouldnt 
have incurred and responded to his further claims in a timely and professional manner. The 
£500 compensation offered reflects that Phoenixs mistake caused Mr N considerable 
distress and inconvenience that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. And that it took 
several months to do so. 
I acknowledge that it wouldve been much better if the error had never been made. But I 
consider that Phoenix have taken reasonable steps to resolve the issue. And Im satisfied 
that their offer of £500 compensation is reasonable under the circumstances. So I wont be 
asking Phoenix to pay additional compensation.
In summary, after fully considering Mr Ns points, my decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
See the What should Phoenix do? section above.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Phoenix Life Limited to pay the amount calculated as set out 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman