DRN-3936557
The complaint
Miss K complains about her motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.
Admiral are the underwriters (the insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Admiral have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of their 
appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss K and Admiral. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
On 4 December 2022, Miss K contacted Admiral to make a claim on her motor insurance 
policy. Miss Ks front windscreen had a chip on it and a rear window was smashed. Both 
damage events were unrelated, but had occurred within a few hours of each other. 
A repair for the back window was booked for 8 December 2022 and Miss K agreed to pay 
the policy excess. As Miss K had concerns about water getting into her car, a temporary 
glaze repair was arranged for the following day (5 December 2022). When that repair agent 
attended, they told Miss K theyd have also been able to deal with the front windscreen chip -  
had it been added to the job. 
Miss K spoke with Admiral on 5 December and it was established that the previous call 
agent hadnt logged a job request for the front windscreen chip repair. As it was unrelated to 
the rear window damage, a second excess was payable. The chip repair was booked in to 
happen at the same time as the rear window replacement on 8 December. 
On 8 December when the repair agent visited, because the chip had developed into a crack, 
it wasnt repairable and a replacement would be needed. Mrs K contacted Admiral again and 
she was told the £25 repair excess would be refunded to her as a repair was no longer 
possible and, as a goodwill gesture, £35 would be waived from the second repair excess 
(£115) for the front windscreen. Therefore, £80 was outstanding.
Miss K raised a complaint as she argued that if the very first agent shed spoken to had 
booked in the front windscreen chip repair for 5 December 2022 when the temporary rear 
window weatherproofing was taking place  the chip on the front windscreen wouldnt have 
developed further into a crack and needed replacing. Admiral didnt uphold her complaint 
and Miss K referred it to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that Admiral needed to do anything further and as Miss K 
didnt accept, her complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
How have Admiral treated Miss K?
It isnt in dispute that things didnt happen as they should have during the notification call on 
4 December 2022. 
This is important as my decision will focus on what likely wouldve happened if things had 
happened as they should have during that first call and, whether Admiral have fairly 
considered the claim in line with the policy terms. Ill also keep in mind how Admiral have 
treated Miss K overall.
Whilst Ive noted that Mis K has told us the Admiral agent who visited on 5 December told 
her hed have been able to do the chip repair, the earliest availability for the rear window 
replacement was 8 December. Whilst I understand the logic behind the argument Miss K is 
making, ours is an evidence based organisation and theres no supporting evidence 
available to show that an appointment wouldve been available sooner (if the initial call agent 
had correctly booked both jobs) than 8 December 2022 to complete the front windscreen 
repair job. 
A repair agent making a comment that theyd also have been able to carry out the repair 
demonstrated that they may have been trained to carry out that type of repair - but this isnt  
necessarily reflective of Admiral agents actual availability on the booking system. The 
replacement (rear window) and repair would have needed a longer appointment  generally 
90 minutes according to the appointed agents website. 
The repair agents wont generally have sight of the booking system the phone agent had and 
various different factors will influence appointment availability and prioritisation. For example, 
colder weather generally tends to create extra demand for Admirals agents services. Or, 
where a vulnerable customer in a rural location would be without a car unless a repair was 
carried out sooner. 
Ive noted from the call transcript provided for the call Miss K made to Admiral on 5 
December when the Admiral agent was with her car. The below are relevant extracts:
Miss K: He said if the order comes through to him now he can fix it.
Admiral: Okay. I mean I've already booked it for the Thursday, basically the 
same time as your glass replacement. So that will be basically done together.
Miss K: Okay fine. [Bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
Admiral: Yes, because what it is, is if I book it through now, the system can just 
assign it to a different technician so that's the issue with that. So I've just booked it, 
so for that, the same location and the same sort of time, there's going to be one 
technician on that basically, so whoever does come out to do the glass replacement 
for you.
Based on this and given what had happened before, I dont find that Admiral acted 
unreasonably in booking the chip repair in alongside the rear window replacement on 8 
December. Admiral recognised the issue from the first call and this was a reasonable 
attempt to put things right  which Miss K accepted at that time. If the chip developed into a 
crack before 8 December, I cant reasonably hold Admiral responsible for this. From the evidence, it appears that the chip being seen as a crack was first noticed by Miss K 
on 6 December - after shed earlier in the day taken a photo of it and around 48 hours after 
shed first reported it to Admiral. This means that even if Admiral had been able to arrange a 
front window repair sooner (for example on 6 or 7 December), Miss K would still possibly 
have been in the same position where the chip wasnt repairable and instead a replacement 
was required.  
If things had happened as they should have here, the first call agent wouldve recognised 
there were two separate areas of damage here and it seems more likely than not the front 
chip repair wouldve been booked in for 8 December - rather than 5 December as Miss K 
has argued. The 5 December visit was a temporary, emergency repair to prevent water 
getting into the car. From the initial conversation, it was going to be 12 December at the 
earliest if Miss K was taking the car into a branch or 8 December for a call out. 
On balance, I dont find the repair being booked in for 4 days after notification to be an 
unreasonably long delay. I appreciate the annoyance that this experience has caused 
Miss K, but I dont find that Admiral are responsible for Miss Ks loss arising out of the front 
windscreen chip developing into a crack between 5 and 8 December. 
Have Admiral fairly considered the claims?
Miss K suffered two separate, unrelated incidents within a few hours of each other. 
Therefore, these are two separate claims - as both losses/damages didnt arise from the 
same event. 
As the front windscreen was no longer repairable when the agent visited and Miss K accepts 
that the two areas of damage are unrelated, it follows that its fair of Admiral to request a 
further policy excess for the front windscreen replacement. This is in line with the policy 
terms.
The offer made by Admiral 
Admiral refunded the repair excess of £25 and thats fair. I also find their offer of £35 to be 
fair reasonable and proportionate - given everything thats happened here. 
My decision will disappoint Miss K, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve her dispute with Admiral.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman