DRN-3068996
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Markel International Insurance 
Company Limited took too long to pay its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr S, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with Markel. It claimed on its policy in March 
2020 after its business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 
pandemic. T said its staff were required to work from home by the local authority and 
therefore it had a valid claim for additional costs of working. 
 
T complained to Markel about the time it was taking to deal with its claim as well as the 
service it had received. It said it had spent time chasing Markel for updates on its claim but 
hadnt received a call back.  
In April 2020, Markel said it was taking longer to deal with claims due to the impact of the 
pandemic. They apologised for the delay but said the delay hadnt caused T to incur any 
additional costs.  
In May 2020, Markel turned down Ts claim because they didnt think there was cover under 
the policy.  
T complained to our service about the time it had taken Markel to deal with the claim. It 
raised a separate complaint that Markel had declined its claim.  
While we were looking into Ts complaint, Markel agreed to pay Ts claim. They paid T 
£15,000 in November 2020.  
However, T remained unhappy with the delay caused by Markel and said the delay had led 
to consequential losses of over £745,000. This included: 
Interest on a bounce back loan (BBL) 
Credit card interest 
Time taken for the directors and staff to deal with the claim 
Loss of revenue and opportunity over the next three years 
Loss of reputation 
Cost of a loss adjuster 
Potential future costs 
Our investigator looked into Ts claim. He didnt think T had evidenced its losses or shown 
that it had taken reasonable steps to mitigate its losses. However, he thought Markel had 
taken longer to deal with the claim than they should have done and therefore recommended 
that Markel pay interest on the £15,000 at a rate of 8% simple per year.  
Markel said there were a number of reasons why they had taken time to look into the claim 
but agreed to pay interest on the settlement in order to resolve the complaint. They said they 
could either do this on an invoice by invoice basis or award £600 as six months interest on 
£15,000 at 8% simple.   
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said it was difficult to know how to 
provide evidence to demonstrate its financial losses. It also said the loss adjuster had been 
necessary to try to resolve the claim as quickly as possible. T said that it had taken the BBL, 
in part, to cover the claim amount it was due from Markel. However, it said that if Markel had 
paid the claim sooner it was unlikely it would have needed to take any of the BBL.   
Before I reached a final decision, our investigator let both T and Markel know that, while I 
thought it would be fair and reasonable for Markel to pay T £600, I didnt think this was due 
to interest being payable; instead I thought it should be paid as compensation for the delays 
and inconvenience T had experienced. T remained unhappy due to the losses it said it had 
incurred. Markel said it didnt have anything further to add.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all, I dont intend to 
address each one and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this 
complaint.  
I appreciate that Covid-19 would have had an impact on how quickly Markel was initially able 
to deal with Ts claim, but Markel accepted there were some delays at the beginning of the 
claim. I also think it took Markel longer to deal with the claim than it should have done, given 
that they initially turned down the claim and it wasnt settled until November 2020. I can also 
see that T made a number of attempts to contact Markel in the first few weeks after making 
the claim and didnt receive a response.  
Markel has agreed to pay T £600 to compensate for this, but T believes its losses caused by 
Markels actions amount to much more.   
Ive considered carefully Ts submissions, and the evidence its provided, but Im not going to 
require Markel to pay anything more. Ill explain why.   
T has set out losses of over £745,000. However, when making a claim, T has a duty to 
mitigate any losses and I havent seen anything to demonstrate why T was unable to raise 
the funds required to mitigate its losses.  
I understand T was ultimately able to buy the equipment it needed for its staff to work at 
home. However, the value of the loan was for more than double the claim value. So I think 
its likely that T would always have needed to take out some borrowing even if Markel had 
paid its claim straightaway.  
T has asked for its interest on the BBL to be reimbursed. However, no interest accrued on 
the BBL until 12 months from the date of borrowing and, given Markel paid Ts claim within 
eight months of the claim being made, I dont think it would have started accruing any 
interest before T received full settlement from Markel. 
 
T also said it used credit cards to cover payments that needed to be made. However, I 
understand T has been able to carry out a balance transfer and, in any event, as T raised more than the full settlement amount through the BBL, the period in which T was reliant 
on credit cards was limited.   
T said its directors spent 76 days in applying for loans and grants and helping the team who 
didnt have appropriate IT equipment; and that its employees werent able to be as 
productive as they would have been with the correct equipment. I recognise that this was a 
difficult time for T. However, it would always have taken Markel some time to pay the claim, 
even if it had been accepted straight away, so I dont think I can reasonably hold Markel 
responsible for T not immediately having the equipment required to enable its employees to 
work at home, or for Ts management needing to take time supporting its employees working 
from home. Also, as set out above, T seems to have taken out a higher level of borrowing 
than the claim limit on the policy so I think it would have had the inconvenience of applying 
for loans and grants anyway. 
T estimated that the loss of opportunity has cost it around £360,000 over a three-year 
period. It said this is because it had to divert its budget for a salesperson, its website and 
marketing to fund general day to day business at the start of the requirement to work from 
home. However, as explained above, I havent seen anything to persuade me that T took 
steps to mitigate this loss or that this loss was primarily caused by Markels delay in settling 
Ts claim.  
T has also said it suffered a loss of revenue of around £18,000 for the period of May 2020 to 
July 2020 due to not having the correct equipment. However, T has acknowledged that this 
amount takes into account the closure of hospitality and leisure clients businesses, so I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that any loss of revenue was again primarily caused 
by Markels delays. 
T said its loss of reputation both internally and externally has cost it about £170,000 over a 
three-year period. However, I havent seen anything other than Ts comments to support 
this, or to indicate that the future losses T is concerned about are likely to occur. Moreover, 
it is not clear the extent to which any such losses would have been caused by Markel.  
T said it paid £1,500 to appoint a loss adjuster due to the delays and Markels reluctance to 
pay the claim. While I recognise that Markel took longer than they should have done to pay 
the claim, and changed its position, I think it was Ts choice to appoint someone to act on its 
behalf, so Im not going to require Markel to reimburse T for that.  
I recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling that the losses T suffered were as a result of the way in 
which Markel handled Ts claim. However, for the reasons explained above, I believe the 
£600 agreed by Markel is a fair amount to put right the mistakes they made. I dont think I 
can fairly require Markel to pay T anything more.  
Putting things right
I therefore think the fair and reasonable outcome for this particular complaint is for Markel to 
pay T £600 to compensate for the inconvenience caused by delays in settling its claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Markel International Insurance Company Limited should pay T £600 
to compensate for its inconvenience.    Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman