DRN-4468799
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the service provided by British Gas Services Limited in relation to her 
home emergency insurance.
What happened
While Mrs J was in hospital her son visited her house and found there was a problem with 
the electrics. Her other son called British Gas to check that she had cover with British Gas 
but was told she didnt have any cover with them. Mrs J spoke to British Gas on the same 
call and said she thought she had a policy with British Gas but was told that wasnt correct. 
Mrs J said she must have got confused and had her cover with someone else. 
After finding Mrs Js documents, her sons established that she did have cover as part of her 
home insurance policy, which was arranged through British Gas Services but provided by a 
different insurer. She complained about the way the call had been handled and the 
information shed been given. She was also unhappy with further communication following 
the call.
British Gas explained that the call handler didnt have her details as they didnt have access 
to the system that held information about her home insurance policy. In order to 
acknowledge the poor experience Mrs J had, British Gas paid compensation of £50.
Mrs J referred the complaint to this Service as she didnt feel the compensation adequately 
reflected the distress caused to her. Our investigator agreed and thought £100 would be fair. 
She asked British Gas to pay another £50. 
British Gas agreed to this but Mrs J has requested an ombudsmans decision. Shes been 
supported in the complaint by her son. Hes explained how upset his mother was, and that 
that it wasnt just Mrs J who was upset, and her sons were put to some trouble in trying to 
establish that she had home emergency cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only considering the information provided to Mrs J when she was trying to 
establish that she had cover with British Gas; Im not looking into the way the claim itself was 
handled, which is a separate matter. 
British Gas has acknowledged that Mrs J had a poor experience and has now agreed to pay 
an additional £50 compensation. 
I appreciate it was upsetting for Mrs J having to hold on the phone for some time to speak to 
someone, only to be told she didnt have any cover. She was in hospital at the time and 
worrying about her home. This was clearly distressing for her. But things were clarified soon 
after and she was able to make a claim. And I cant consider the impact on other family 
members, only the way Mrs J herself was affected. 
Taking account of the level of upset caused to Mrs J, I agree compensation of £100 would 
be fair. So, on the basis British Gas has already paid £50, it should make a further payment 
of £50.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct British Gas Services Limited to pay compensation of £50 to 
Mrs J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman