DRN-4479437
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about a lifetime mortgage application she made to more 2 life Ltd 
through a mortgage broker. She says the interest rate was too high, and the valuation of her 
property was too low.
Mrs D has been supported in bringing this complaint by Mr F. Any reference to Mrs D should 
be taken to mean Mr F acting in that capacity where appropriate.
What happened
Mrs D applied for this lifetime mortgage through a mortgage broker in January 2021. She 
applied to borrow £136,230 to repay an existing lifetime mortgage and a credit card debt, as 
well as to cover the fees for setting up the mortgage. On the application form that was 
submitted to more 2 life the estimated value of the property was stated to be £285,000.
A valuation was carried out on 11 January, which said the property was worth £285,000, and 
on 13 January a mortgage offer was issued for a borrowing amount of £136,230 at an 
interest rate of 6.31%.
Mrs Ds solicitor completed the legal paperwork and the mortgage completed on 25 February 
2021.
Mrs D raised a complaint with more 2 life in July 2022 which it didnt uphold. Unhappy with 
more 2 lifes response, Mrs D referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said more 2 life was entitled to rely on the 
valuation report it received, and it processed the mortgage on the interest rate that was 
stated on the application form.
Mrs D didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
Whilst I acknowledge the request by Mrs D that this and the complaint about the mortgage 
broker are considered together, having reviewed both files Im satisfied I can fairly decide 
this complaint without deciding the complaint about the broker either first or at the same 
time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D disputes the accuracy of the valuation, saying some estate agents had given 
substantially higher figures a few months before, and a valuation carried out by a surveyor 
(from a different branch of the same chain of surveyors) gave a figure of £360,000 around 
18 months later.
I understand Mrs D feels the broker understated the value of her property on the mortgage 
application form, but this complaint is just about more 2 life and its actions. It received an 
application form giving an estimated property value of £285,000 and so it was on that basis it 
started its review of the application.
More 2 life needed to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor, which it did in this instance by 
appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
More 2 life isnt responsible for the actions of the surveyor, including the valuation figure they 
reached. I think more 2 life acted reasonably by accepting the valuation the surveyor 
reached, and in relying on the valuation to decide the property was acceptable security for 
the proposed borrowing. I havent seen any evidence that the valuation was contested with 
more 2 life by Mrs D at the time. I dont think it was unfair for more 2 life to rely on the 
valuation for this application.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that more 2 life instructed an independent 
qualified surveyor and it was reasonable to rely on their opinion.
I understand Mrs D is also unhappy about the interest rate on her more 2 life mortgage. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that more 2 life made a mistake with the interest rate; the 
interest rate Mrs D got was the interest rate she was eligible for. The interest rate was set 
out in the mortgage offer that was issued on 13 January 2021, and if Mrs D felt that was too 
high at the time then she had the option to not proceed with it. Having considered everything 
there are no grounds for me to uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about more 2 life Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman