DRN-4521125
Complaint
Mr M has complained about personal loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He 
says the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to him.
Background
L2G initially provided Mr M with a loan for £300 in April 2021. This loan had an APR of 
700.1% and an 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,110.06, 
including interest, fees and charges of £810.06, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £61.67. This loan was settled in full in May 2021.
Mr M was provided with a second loan for £600 in June 2022. This loan had an APR of 
769.9% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,219.94, including interest, fees and charges of £1,619.94, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of £123.33. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and he concluded that L2G didnt do 
anything wrong when providing Mr M with his loans and so didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment of his complaint and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision of 7 December 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 7 December 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Ms complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I considered what L2G had done and its actions in light of this.
L2G said it agreed to Mr Ms applications after he provided details of his monthly income and 
some information on his expenditure. It said it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr M said he couldnt afford these loans and so shouldnt have been lent 
to.
Having reviewed the information provided, I was concerned that L2Gs own checks in the 
lead up to loan 1 showed that Mr M had had difficulties repaying credit in the form of defaults 
a historic individual voluntary arrangement with a notice of correction, a county court 
judgment (CCJ) and other adverse information; and after this at least one account having 
been in an arrangement to pay. 
This was also in circumstances where the payments would have taken up a significant 
portion of the disposable income figure it had arrived at for Mr M too. I was also concerned 
that by the time of loan 2, Mr Ms position hadnt improved much either. Another account had 
missed payments, a revolving credit account was towards the upper end of his credit limit 
and he had taken out further credit since loan 1 had been provided. I was also mindful that 
L2G had determined that Mr Ms income was  albeit slightly  lower too.
Bearing in mind all of this, I was satisfied that L2G ought reasonably to have carried out 
further checks before providing either of these loans to Mr M.
I also thought that further checks would have extended into finding out more about Mr Ms 
expenditure. And if L2G had done in this instance, I was persuaded that it would have seen 
that Mr M was already in a difficult financial position at the respective times and also found 
out why this was the case. I was also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have shown L2G that Mr Ms existing precarious financial position 
was because he was struggling financially. 
So as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out more 
about Mr Ms income and expenditure, I was satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr M. 
As L2G provided Mr M with these loans notwithstanding this, this left me minded to conclude 
that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr M ended up paying and was still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on 
loans he shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So it was my intention to issue 
a final decision finding that Mr M lost out because of what L2G did wrong when providing 
these loans and as a result that it needed to put things right.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to confirm that he accepted my provisional decision and that he didnt have 
anything further for me to consider.
L2G disagreed with my provisional decision. It said that it considered Mr M was up to date 
with his payments at the time of these applications. Mr M had had previous difficulties with 
credit but they were historic. In its view, Mr M could repay these loans. 
Finally, it said as a subprime lender it lends to people who had negative information on their 
credit file and may not have had a good credit score, as long as they can demonstrate 
stability and that they can repay their loan instalments sustainably.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint in my provisional decision 
of 7 December 2023. L2G has disputed my findings saying that Mr Ms previous difficulties 
with credit were historic and that his credit file was on the whole positive. 
Ive considered what L2G has said. I accept that Mr Ms CCJs and his IVA were historic. 
Nonetheless, the copy of the credit search provided does indicate that he had had more 
recent difficulties that hadnt gone as far as defaulted accounts, CCJs or IVAs. So Id dispute 
that his credit file was on the whole positive. 
In any event, Im not suggesting that what was on Mr Ms credit file in itself meant that L2G 
shouldnt have lent to him on either occasion. But I do think that what L2G saw coupled with 
the payments taking up a significant chunk of the disposable income which L2G had only 
estimated for Mr M meant that further checks, to demonstrate that Mr M could repay any 
further borrowing sustainably, were necessary here. This is especially as Mr Ms position 
was worsening by the time of loan 2.
I simply dont agree that Mr Ms credit file was in itself evidence of someone who was 
managing his finances well. And more importantly I certainly dont see how this meant that 
he would be able to repay borrowing sustainably, or that further checks werent necessary 
given the overall circumstances here.
So while Ive considered the further comments that L2G has made in response to my 
provisional decision of 7 December 2023, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
Im therefore still upholding Mr Ms complaint. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put 
things right in the way that I had set out. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case for L2G to put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr M to the date of settlementremoving all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr M made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £600 
originally lent. If Mr M has already repaid more than £600 then L2G should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr M. Should 
an outstanding balance remaining remain after all adjustments have been made, L2G 
can use the compensation due from loan 1 to reduce and/or clear whatever is left to 
pay on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about loan 1 from Mr Ms credit 
file. If, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains on 
loan 2, L2G should also remove any adverse information it has recorded about this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give        
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im Loans 2 Go Limited 
should put things right in accordance with the direction Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman