DRN-3098433
The complaint
Mr T complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr T was given a guarantor loan by TFS as follows: 
Date taken Loan amount Number of 
monthly 
instalmentsTotal 
amount 
payableMonthly 
repayment*
19 January 
2015£5,000 36 £8,712.36 £242.01
Mr T brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with TFS.  
In summary, Mr T didnt think that TFS had lent to him responsibly because it didnt do any 
proper checks on him as the borrower.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve 
provided the loan to Mr T and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take to put 
things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. In brief summary, TFS mainly said:
TFS was putting Mr T in a better financial position by consolidating his debts. Its loan 
would settle all Mr Ts debts and anything left outstanding would be cleared by his 
parents  and when this was done, it would release around £403 per month
TFS conducted an in-depth income and expenditure assessment over the phone with 
Mr T and concluded that the loan was sustainably affordable for him 
having now seen Mr Ts bank statements, it said these showed his account was 
rarely overdrawn and that he managed his finances well
TFS acknowledged the amount of Mr Ts spending on gambling but said it didnt 
believe he was using short-term loans for this purpose and that our investigator had 
no grounds to make this assumption  nor was it reasonable to infer that Mr T would 
use its loan to fund gambling 
TFS said the fact that Mr T wasnt going overdrawn on his current account suggested 
that he was only gambling what he could afford.  
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
And its important to keep in mind that when working out if a loan looks likely to be 
affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about 
the impact of the lending on the customer. 
The lending decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting 
its money back.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr T applied for the loan, TFS asked about his income. After looking at his most 
recent payslip TFS recorded Mr Ts income was approximately £2,176 a month from his 
main job  and noted that he earned a further £160 from an additional role outside of work. It 
asked Mr T about his regular expenditure and allowing for his credit costs after debt 
consolidation, it worked out that Mr T should still have around £232 in disposable income 
after paying his TFS loan. So it deemed its loan was affordable. 
But despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr T had spare cash each 
month, I think TFS shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information because what 
Mr T had declared was significantly at odds with what it saw on its credit checks. 
I think TFS could see from its credit check that Mr T had a balance of £1,500 outstanding on 
another unsecured loan that had defaulted just nine months or so previously. It also saw that 
Mr T still owed £4,244 on an older defaulted account dating back to 2010 and he had 
defaulted on a payday loan and bank credit card within last 2 years (these accounts had 
outstanding balances totalling £1,157). TFS was also able to see that Mr T had taken out at 
least two unsecured loans within previous 6 months  one of them within the last 2 months  
adding a further £2,005 to his outstanding debt.  
Historic loan information showed that taking out payday and unsecured loans was an 
established borrowing pattern over a number of years. I think there was a clear pattern 
showing Mr T was likely borrowing from one lender to repay others. 
I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr T based on the information it 
had gathered. At the very least, and even if Mr T was able to boost his take home pay from 
his main job with regular extra earnings, I think it needed to do more in-depth checks before 
it could reach a properly informed decision on whether this loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr T. And had it done more and better checking, I think it likely that TFS 
wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that it was fair to provide this loan  and substantial 
evidence that it would most likely be unfair and detrimental to Mr T.  
Information I've seen on bank statements Mr T sent to us shows that he was spending 
significantly on gambling transactions. 
This is information which I think TFS couldve found out itself if it had done proportionate 
checks before agreeing to lend. 
TFS hasnt disputed that Mr Ts gambling spending during each of the three months seen on 
his October 2014 - January 2015 bank statements was approximately £1,282, at least 
£2,291 and around £5,522 respectively. 
If TFS had done proportionate checks and sought a fuller picture of Mr Ts financial situation 
its likely it wouldve found this out. I dont think a responsible lender wouldve been 
reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. It looks to me like his reliance on 
expensive high cost credit could be funding loans taken to cover his gambling payments
I've taken into account that TFS said that after allowing for all the payments into the account 
during this period this reduced the proportion of net monthly income that Mr T was spending 
on gambling. But I dont think its reasonable to think that there could be any guarantee that 
Mr T would be able to depend on subsidising his gambling by using his winnings every month throughout the loan term. And the amount Mr T was spending on gambling over the 
period covered by his bank statements, together with his apparent but otherwise 
unexplained need to supplement his income by taking out multiple payday and unsecured 
loans, along with his evident money problems all point to the fact that his spending - most 
likely on gambling  was out of control. 
So whilst TFS may say there is no evidence that Mr T would continue to gamble and this is 
supposition on the part of our investigator, I think it is a fair and reasonable conclusion to 
draw from the information that Ive seen and that weve now shared with TFS.
So this leads me to conclude, as our investigator did, that TFS couldnt reasonably have 
been satisfied, either on the information it saw or had it done a proportionate check, that 
Mr T was likely to be able to sustainably repay its loan. And I dont think TFS shouldve 
provided it. 
I've taken into account that Mr T said the purpose of the TFS loan was to repay other debt 
that hed found it difficult to pay off. But Mr Ts track record of borrowing suggested that debt 
consolidation couldnt be a guaranteed outcome of any lending  and TFS didnt take any 
steps to ensure that the loan it provided would be used for this purpose so TFS had no 
control over what it was actually used for. 
And even if Mr T had used this loan to fully repay some existing debt, I dont think TFS had 
sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his outstanding 
indebtedness overall. So I still dont think I can reasonably say that it made a fair lending 
decision.
As Mr T has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Mr T in any other 
way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr T to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr T shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr T made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr T having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr T bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. TFS should not pursue any 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ts credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman