DRN-1686222
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) were wrong to reject a claim 
he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
If there was evidence that the supplier had overcharged Mr A, or the guarantee had been 
unlimited, then I may have found there was a breach of contract and have therefore thought 
Nationwides stance on this complaint to be unreasonable.
But Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract here.
The supplier explained on the invoice that work would be provided at a rate of £100 per hour 
and I dont think Ive been provided with evidence that was not the case. Whilst I understand 
Mr As frustration that the work took longer than he felt was necessary I cant see that a time 
limit was set, and I think its reasonable to suggest it remained open to Mr A to stop the work 
if he was unhappy with the time taken.
Im also not persuaded that there was an agreement an unlimited guarantee would be 
supplied as Ive not seen evidence of that agreement.
In those circumstances I dont think Nationwide were unreasonable to reject Mr As section 
75 claim and Im not asking them to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman