DRN-4414205
The complaint
Mr A complains TransUnion International UK Limited (TU) caused him significant financial 
loss by adding other peoples details to his credit file.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant element below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr A was in the process of applying for a new mortgage, when he was told he had a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) registered against him, and loans he hadnt declared. Mr A 
said this wasnt true, and after investigation established TU had incorrectly added other 
peoples details to his own credit file. Mr A has said this has had a very significant financial 
and emotional impact on him. In total Mr A asked for around £19,000 to reflect the specific 
financial losses hed incurred and the stress hes experienced. Mr A said it took too long for 
these issues to be resolved, so he complained to TU seeking to recover his losses.
TU replied and accepted they were at fault for whatd happened and wrong information had 
been matched to Mr As credit file. They said they were happy to consider any financial 
losses Mr A wanted to claim for if he could evidence them. Overall, they upheld his case, but 
didnt at this stage offer any compensation.
I understand Mr A did then submit some evidence of his financial losses, but TU didnt deem 
them sufficient, so didnt pay any financial loss, or compensation at this point either. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He did so outside of the timescales allowed, but 
TU consented to our service looking into the complaint. So, one of our Investigators did so.
He agreed TU had made errors, and felt some compensation was due. Overall, he 
recommended TU pay £300. The key reason for this is because he didnt think Mr A had fully 
demonstrated all of the losses were solely or mainly due to TUs error.
TU accepted this outcome, but Mr A didnt. He said this didnt even cover his direct or 
indirect costs and he explained his circumstances again. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only briefly touched on Mr As personal circumstances. That isnt in any way to minimise 
or trivialise whats happened to him. I can see from what hes told us hes genuinely had a 
very challenging time as a result of the application for his mortgage not being successful. I 
do want Mr A to know Ive read everything hes told us and thought about it very carefully. 
Ive not reflected it in this decision because its published, and Im aware due to the 
circumstances hes described putting more detail here could cause him further issues.
All of that said, I think its also important for me to set out how Ive assessed Mr As case. Its 
not in dispute TU made an error  theyve accepted this. The only question is one of how to 
put matters right. I find it quite disappointing that TU didnt offer Mr A any compensation, 
even after they rejected his claim for financial losses.
Fundamentally, in order to award Mr A direct financial losses, Id need to be satisfied TU 
were solely or mainly responsible for those losses. The losses Mr A has incurred happened 
as a result of the mortgage not going through.
Mr A has said the sole reason for this is due to TUs error in adding a CCJ and loans on to 
his credit file which werent his. 
Generally, to be satisfied this was the case, Id want something from the lender to explain 
TUs incorrect information was the sole reason theyd turned down a mortgage application. 
The key reason for this is mortgage applications can fail on a vast number of different factors 
 including valuations, affordability, employment status and so on. Its extremely difficult to 
apportion sole blame to TU in such circumstances when there is a real and realistic 
possibility the mortgage application may have failed for another reason instead.
Mr A says hed taken out a mortgage within two years prior to this mortgage application  
and it succeeded. And hes given us evidence of the mortgage appointment, so he didnt 
know what else he could give us to prove his point.
I do understand Mr As frustrations. But as Ive said above there are so many reasons a 
mortgage application may not progress that I cant legitimately say the only reason the 
lender didnt agree to lend is down to TUs information.
Because of that, I wont be awarding any direct financial losses Mr A says hes incurred. Nor 
can I, when thinking about compensation, consider the impact not getting a mortgage has 
had on him. Instead, my focus in considering compensation is limited to the inconvenience of 
having to get the incorrect information removed from his credit file.
The information I have, shows Mr A initially got in touch with TU on 12 March 2022 to ask 
them to remove incorrect information. At this point Mr A had received his credit report from 
TU through another company for which he paid £14.99 to get this service.
Mr A identified 13 entries on his credit file which were incorrect. In their response to his 
complaint in April 2022, TU said all entries had been corrected. 
Its unclear to me whether this was accurate or not. I say that because Mr A highlighted 
further issues  and TU agreed saying there were three third party searches remaining on 
his credit file. This was in August 2023  some 17 months after he first raised his issues.
Either TU should have removed these entries when Mr A first complained or should have 
taken steps to prevent these issues occurring again. For whatever reason, theyve clearly 
not supported their customer in the way Id have expected to ensure only correct information 
is now showing.Overall, although our Investigator awarded £300, I think the impact is better recognised by a 
£600 payment given the distress caused and the length of time its taken for the matter to 
actually be resolved.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A said he was happy with my provisional decision as long as its the final binding decision 
as hes ready to move on.
TU replied and said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr A said he was happy with this outcome if its the final binding one, and TU said they 
had nothing to add, Ive gone ahead and finalised my thoughts. And, as neither party 
provided further evidence or information for me to consider, I remain of the opinion £600 is a 
fair way to put matters right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require 
TransUnion International UK Limited to pay Mr A £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman