DRN-2798990
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a personal pension policy.
What happened
In 1997, Miss M started a personal pension policy with Lloyds. She says she has no 
recollection of doing this. 
She says she didnt receive annual statements for her pension policy. And only discovered it 
existed in November 2019 when Lloyds wrote to her parents to try to get her current 
address. Soon after that, she received a pension statement. Miss M thought shed been mis-
sold as she didnt remember starting the pension. And the statement showed it had a much 
lower value than the amount shed paid in. 
Miss M says Lloyds told her shed paid in £850 and it was now worth £310.69. She says 
Lloyds told her she couldnt transfer the money unless she had at least £10,000 to transfer. 
She says she doesnt want this pension but has been told shell have to wait until shes 55 to 
get money from it. 
So she complained to Lloyds. She wanted her money back, plus interest and compensation.
Lloyds investigated Miss Ms complaint. They didnt uphold it. They felt that the advice shed 
been given in 1997 was suitable for her needs at the time. They said that Miss M had met 
with an adviser on 2 September 1997. And that she completed a personal financial 
information fact find which confirmed shed no pension provision as she was self-employed 
and hadnt yet started a private pension.
They said that the adviser recommended a personal pension policy with Miss M paying £140 
a month on an increasing basis until her planned retirement at age 60. But that Miss M 
decided instead to contribute £50 a month on a level basis. 
They also said that Miss M was given an illustration and key features document on 2 
September 1997. This showed what future pension benefits might be at her planned 
retirement age of 60. It also showed the advice costs and warned that if contributions 
stopped during the early years, the value of the policy could be less than the amount paid in.
Lloyds said that Miss M signed a declaration confirming that shed received this document. 
And the personal pension policy started on 15 September 1997. Lloyds sent a policy 
schedule to Miss M. They said they also sent a cancellation notice giving her a cooling off 
period during which she could cancel her pension. She then paid monthly contributions of 
£50 for 17 months.
They noted Miss M had recently told them shed moved in 2003. And that this matched with 
the first time theyd not been able contact her. They said theyd sent the policy schedule in 
1997 and annual pension statements after that between 1997 and 2003. And confirmed that 
their adviser had given her documentation explaining the charges at the meeting. They also 
noted that the illustration shed received wouldve shown the effects the charging structure 
could have on her contributions in the early years of the policy.
Miss M didnt agree. So she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt feel 
that the pension policy had been mis-sold. While he wasnt sure whether shed received 
annual statements after 2003, he felt shed received the ones before then. He felt that the 
evidence showed that shed received a key features document and schedule prior to 
completing and signing the policy application form. 
Miss M didnt agree. She felt that shed provided information about her address history that 
showed that she was not at the addresses Lloyds had said she was at. So her complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ill cover the different aspects of Miss Ms complaint separately. 
Was Miss M aware of the policys existence? 
From the evidence Ive seen, Miss M did take out a personal pension policy with Lloyds in 
1997. I acknowledge that Miss M doesnt remember doing this. But Ive seen paperwork with 
her signature on it. 
The set-up documents for the policy were sent to the address recorded on Miss Ms 
application form. Ive seen the signed declaration which included this address. But Miss M 
told us that she left that address at the end of 1996. She said that shed set up a mail 
forwarding service for a year. But that shed never received any of the documentation 
relating to the set-up of the policy. 
Lloyds told us they first received a gone away notification in May 2003. They said that they 
contacted Miss Ms branch at that time to see if they held an up to date address. The branch 
provided a new address. Lloyds started sending annual statements to that address in 2004.
They next noted that they issued a letter to Miss M regarding the addition of accidental death 
cover which was being added to her policy. This was returned as gone away in 2017. 
Lloyds said that on 7 November 2019 Miss M called to ask for full policy details. Through this 
process they changed her address to another new address. They told us that letters 
confirming their records had been updated were issued to both the previous address they 
held for her and the new address to safeguard against fraud. These letters show that Lloyds 
had no record at all of an address Miss M lived in between 2011 and 2016. They thought she 
still lived at the address theyd started using in 2004.
Miss M said that Lloyds were told about her changes of address. But unfortunately of the 
available evidence doesnt support this position. And as Miss M has said that shed used a 
forwarding service for a year starting at the end of 1996, I think its more likely than not that 
she wouldve received the set-up documentation. Although I acknowledge that the 
forwarding service mightve ended before the first annual statement was sent, Miss M 
wouldve received the set-up paperwork and couldve provided her new address details to 
Lloyds at that point.Miss M has made every effort to provide proof of her previous address information. And Im 
grateful to her for that. But I note that one of the documents she provided actually indicates 
that she was still at her original address in September 1997. This gives me further comfort 
that she wouldve received the initial policy documentation, including a cancellation notice 
giving her a cooling off period. So Im satisfied that she did receive documentation for the 
policy. 
Furthermore, Miss M paid monthly contributions into the policy for 17 months. Payments 
stopped at this point. Im satisfied that Miss M wouldve had to stop these payments herself. 
So Im persuaded that this constitutes further evidence of Miss Ms awareness of the policys 
existence. 
Was the policy suitable for Miss M?
Based on what Ive seen, Lloyds did everything they were supposed to do when establishing 
whether a personal pension policy was suitable for Miss M in September 1997. This included 
collecting information about Miss Ms circumstances and providing an illustration of the likely 
benefits from the policy and providing a key features document. Miss Ms confirmed that her 
circumstances at that time did match the details Lloyds recorded about her. So I need to 
decide whether Lloyds mis-sold this policy to her.
Miss M was self-employed and so didnt have access to an employer-related pension 
scheme. She had no other pension provision in place. Under such circumstances, it would 
be difficult to successfully make the case that setting up a personal pension policy was an 
unsuitable course of action, unless it was, for example, clearly unaffordable or it was the 
wrong type of policy for an individual in Miss Ms position.
But having assessed Miss Ms circumstances at the time and the type of policy 
recommended, I dont think either of the above conditions apply here. And so my view is that 
the pension policy wasnt unsuitable at the time. Miss Ms circumstances may have changed 
later, which might have meant that continuation of the pension contributions was no longer 
possible. But I dont think this was the situation, or otherwise known to be the situation, at 
the time of setting up the policy.
And so, for the reasons given, I cant fairly conclude that it was mis-sold. 
Miss Ms awareness of the policys charging structure
Miss M has complained that she wasnt aware of any charges relating to the policy. The key 
features document explained the risk if contributions were stopped in the early years of the 
policy. They said that the value could be less than whatd been paid in. Alongside the other 
information in that document I consider that the charging structure was explained. And, as 
Im satisfied she received the key features document, I cant fairly uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Can Miss M transfer money from her pension policy?
Ill now look at Miss Ms complaint about accessing her personal pension policy. She said 
shed been told she couldnt transfer the money in her policy unless she had a minimum of 
£10,000. But Miss M has also said that she cant close the policy. 
Lloyds have confirmed that her policy has no transfer restrictions in place. Although they 
note that there may be a restriction on the potential receiving scheme. So, depending on 
where Miss M wants to transfer the money from her policy to, she may be able to do this.Overall, I know this will be disappointing, but I dont think the available evidence supports a 
position that Lloyds have done anything wrong. So I cant ask them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman