DRN-4053412
The complaint
Mrs P complained that her claim was unfairly declined under her boiler insurance policy with 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G). Mrs P had representation during the complaint, 
but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P rang D&G when her boiler wasnt working  she wanted D&G to repair her boiler 
under her policy. D&G offered an appointment within a week, but Mrs P wanted something 
sooner. The call agent explained the policy wasnt an emergency policy but said Mrs P could 
seek her own independent engineer.
D&G didnt hear from Mrs P again until she raised a complaint via our service. This was 
provided to D&G to allow them fair opportunity to consider it. Mrs P had commissioned an 
independent engineer to investigate the fault with her boiler at a cost of £255. The engineer 
told Mrs P her boiler needed replacing and Mrs P has been quoted £2,150 for this work. Mrs 
P thinks D&G should pay these costs under her policy.
D&G said it didnt take an excess payment from Mrs P, so no appointment was booked with 
any of its engineers. D&G explained on some occasions, we may authorise and pay a claim 
however this was not the case and you advised you would call back. We have not heard 
from you since.
D&G said as Mrs P hadnt adhered to the terms and conditions of the policy, it wouldnt 
cover her costs. But as a gesture of goodwill, it did offer to review the engineers report from 
Mrs Ps own engineer should she submit one.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said D&G had acted fairly and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. No repair had been authorised, so no cover 
had been approved. Mrs P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the policy had some terms and conditions, I have reviewed these to understand the 
parameters of the cover bought by Mrs P. In the breakdown and repairs sections of the 
policy it states:
If you have purchased a policy with an excess, you must pay this before a repair visit can 
be arranged.
If we authorise a repair but are unable to find a service technician, well permit you to use 
your chosen service technician.
If your product suffers a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the 
manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period, we will (at our option) authorise a repair, 
provide a replacement boiler worth up to £750 or pay a contribution towards the cost of a 
replacement product of the same or similar technical specification (up to a maximum of 
£750).
I think the terms and conditions of the policy are clear. Before any work is authorised, an 
excess payment would be taken by D&G. They are also clear that any agreed actions need 
to be approved by D&G first. I have reviewed all the notes on file and there is no evidence of 
any excess payment been taken or any authorisation been given by D&G. Therefore, I think 
its reasonable that as Mrs P didnt seek authorisation, D&G has been fair in not covering her 
costs. Mrs P hasnt acted in line with the process set out in the policy.
Ive also checked the call when Mrs P reported the issue to check she wasnt misled. I dont 
think she was. D&G explained the policy was one of insurance and not an emergency policy. 
I dont think the timeframes suggested by D&G for an appointment were unreasonable. As 
Mrs P wanted a more urgent appointment, D&G explained she could use her own 
independent engineer  but at no point did D&G authorise a repair or say the costs would be 
covered by the policy. No excess payment was taken. Mrs P clearly is heard saying she will 
ring back when she has thought about it more. She didnt ring back.
As D&G has followed the terms and conditions when declining the claim and hasnt misled 
Mrs P, I dont uphold this complaint. D&G as a gesture of goodwill said it would consider any 
reports presented from Mrs Ps engineer, noting the limits of liability for a new boiler are 
£750. However, Mrs P hasnt provided anything to date, so I dont think D&G could do 
anymore at this stage. I think D&G has acted both reasonably an fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman