DRN-3971546
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car he ordered through Yes Lease Limited (YLL) wasnt provided. 
And, after he cancelled the order, YLL didnt refund the fee he paid.
What happened
Mr H contacted YLL, a credit broker, to order him a new car and arrange finance for this. On 
20 July 2021, Mr H paid YLL a £300 fee and was given an estimated delivery date of around 
14 weeks. So, Mr H expected the car to be delivered mid- to late-October 2021. However, 
the car wasnt ready on time and, in January 2022, he says he was told it would be another 
24 weeks before the car was delivered. 
As a result of this, on 20 March 2022, Mr H cancelled the order.
YLL said that, as the credit broker, they werent responsible for the delays, as these were 
outside of their control. And, while they had already agreed to waive the £600 cancellation 
fee Mr H had agreed to, they said that the £300 broker fee wouldnt be refunded.
Mr H wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the delays to the delivery werent something YLL were responsible 
for, and theyd provided Mr H with regular updates. Given this, she thought that YLLs offer 
to waive the cancellation fee was reasonable in the circumstances. And she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more regarding the delays.
With regards to the broker fee, the investigator referred to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA), specifically sections 155 and 173. She said that, while the terms Mr H had agreed to 
said the broker fee wasnt refundable, section 155 of the CCA said that (because Mr H 
hadnt entered into a regulated agreement within six months) YLL were only entitled to keep 
£5 of the fee. And section 173 said that, where YLLs terms were inconsistent with the CCA, 
then the provisions of the CCA made YLLs non-refund term void in these circumstances.
As such, the investigator said that YLL should refund the broker fee to Mr H, less £5, and 
pay statutory interest on this refund.
YLL didnt agree with the investigator. They said theyd completed the work as a broker to 
source the deal pay for the enquiry and order a vehicle for the customer  we have 
undergone months of work at the cost to ourselves. They explained that they offered to 
source Mr H an alternative car but as the deal on offer  was extremely discounted at the 
time of ordering, the alternative vehicles that could have been supplied were more expensive 
to which the customer declined. As such, they agreed to waive the cancellation fee.
YLL felt that we have done all that we are able to do as a finance broker to try and help [Mr 
H] and also be more than fair when he proceeded with the cancellation. I do not think that 
this is fair on a business that has spent a great deal of time and money during the order 
process for us to be penalised for trying to help  should the outcome be the same, we 
would be inclined to issue a full cancellation fee to the customer to cover the costs and 
losses we have incurred because of the cancellation of the order.
While the investigator acknowledged the position YLL found themselves in, she said shed 
applied what the CCA said when reaching her outcome. As YLL remained unhappy with this, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. YLL ordered the car for Mr H as an ancillary action to their 
credit broking activity  the car was only ordered by YLL as they were also arranging the 
finance for Mr H, so the two are intrinsically linked. So, as credit broking is a regulated 
activity, this is something were able to look at.
When Mr H ordered the car through YLL, he paid a fee of £250 plus VAT (£300). The invoice 
for this fee clearly stated this is a broker fee. And the paperwork YLL supplied shows the 
delivery date of the car to be 12  14 weeks.  
The Vehicle Purchase Order that Mr H signed on 20 July 2021 specifies a Document Fee of 
£300 and says document fee/deposits are non-refundable. Cancellation charges may occur. 
Full T&Cs attached. In signing the Vehicle Purchase Order, Mr H also agreed to YLLs 
terms and conditions. These say:
Information on lead times are estimates only and do not constitute an obligation to 
supply. [YLL] has no control or influence over manufacturer lead times and will not be 
held responsible for any losses or inconvenience caused because of a manufacturer 
delay.
With all orders a deposit may be required, you will be advised of the amount at the 
point of order. Once your order has been accepted any cancellation by you will result 
in the loss of your deposit/fees and will incur additional charges from [YLL] of £600 
including vat, in addition to this cancellation charge, additional charges may be 
payable to the manufacturer/supply dealer.
Furthermore, the Initial Disclosure Document says we may charge a processing fee of 
£300.00 including vat. The processing fee represents the cost incurred by [YLL].
Based on what Ive seen, given that the amounts are the same, and Mr H only paid this 
amount once, what YLL separately refer to as a broker fee, document fee, and processing 
fee, are in fact one and the same fee. And its not disputed that this represents YLLs fee for 
arranging the finance agreement and ordering the car.Its also not disputed that, due to circumstances outside of YLLs control, there was a delay 
in the car being supplied to Mr H. While the terms and conditions make it clear that YLL have 
no liability for these delays, Ive seen that, in an email dated 21 January 2022, when they 
explained that the delays in obtaining the car were outside of their control, YLL said that, if 
Mr H wanted to cancel, what we can do is waive the cancellation fee of £600.
While Mr H didnt cancel the order in January 2022, he did so on 20 March 2022. And, upon 
this cancellation, YLL didnt charge him the cancellation fee. However, they didnt agree to 
refund the £300 broker/document/processing fee that Mr H had paid.
Section 155 of the CCA says that Subject to subsection (2A), the excess over £5 of a fee or 
commission for his services charged by a credit-broker to an individual to whom this 
subsection applies shall cease to be payable or, as the case may be, shall be recoverable by 
the individual if the introduction does not result in his entering into a relevant agreement 
within the six months following the introduction.
Given that, as the car hasnt been supplied and I havent seen that Mr H has entered into a 
relevant agreement within six months of the £300 fee being paid, Im satisfied that section 
155 of the CCA only allows YLL to keep £5 of the fee i.e. £295 should be refunded to Mr H.
However, I also need to consider that the terms Mr H agreed to say the fee paid isnt 
refundable. 
Section 173 of the CCA says a term contained in a regulated agreement or linked 
transaction, or in any other agreement relating to an actual or prospective regulated 
agreement, or linked transaction, is void if, to the extent that, it is inconsistent with a 
provision for the protection of the debtor or hirer or his relative or any surety contained in this 
Act or in any regulation made under this Act.
The agreement Mr H signed with YLL is a linked transaction to the regulated agreement they 
were arranging to finance the car. As such, Im satisfied that Section 173 of the CCA applies 
in this instance. This means that any of YLLs terms are void if they are inconsistent with the 
CCA. And the no refund term is inconsistent with Section 155 of the CCA. Which means 
that, in this instance, YLLs term is void and Mr H is entitled to £295 of the fee refunded.
This is not to say that I havent considered YLLs comments about the perceived unfairness 
of them having to refund their fee to Mr H. However, their cancellation fee term accounts for 
this, and allows them to cover their costs involved. As such, I dont think that applying the 
terms of the CCA is therefore inherently unfair.
Notwithstanding this, Ive also seen that, in this instance, YLL have chosen to waive the 
cancellation fee for Mr H. This was a business decision they were entitled to take, but it 
doesnt mean that they can now retrospectively apply this fee just because their non-refund 
term is inconsistent with the CCA and invalid. So, had YLL not chosen to waive the 
cancellation fee, they could fairly charge this, but I dont consider it would be fair or 
reasonable for them to retrospectively reverse this decision.
Putting things right
Based on the above, YLL should refund Mr H £295 of the £300 fee he paid, and apply 8% 
simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Mr H cancelled the order to the 
date of the refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires YLL to take off tax from this interest. YLL must give Mr H 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. And Yes Lease Limited should follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman