DRN-2332481
The complaint
Mr A has complained Nationwide Building Society lodged a default against him although he 
never received a copy of the default notice.
What happened
In May 2019 Nationwide withdrew Mr As overdraft facility. Mr As account remained 
overdrawn. Nationwide wrote to him at least four times to ask him to repay this debt. Mr A 
spoke to Nationwide by phone and confirmed a payment would be made. Nationwide didnt 
receive any payment and issued a notice of their intention to default.
Mr A repaid his debt in full in May 2020. He complained to Nationwide that he should never 
have been defaulted as hed never got a copy of the default notice. Nationwide believed 
theyd defaulted Mr A as a reflection of the status of his account.
Mr A brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator obtained evidence from Nationwide. She believed Nationwide had sent a 
default notice to Mr A and in all likelihood hed received it. As this was a reflection of the 
status of Mr As account, she wasnt going to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
Mr A was unhappy with this outcome. He believed hed opted to receive all information 
electronically as he couldnt guarantee always getting his post. Our investigator confirmed 
Nationwide had no record of this.
Mr A asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
There is only really one aspect at the heart of Mr As complaint. Was Nationwide able to 
apply a default to Mr As credit record?
After cancelling the overdraft arrangement, Nationwide wrote to Mr A on 9 May 2019 asking 
him to make arrangements to repay the unarranged overdraft. This is line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr As account.
Ive seen copies of the three further letters Nationwide then sent to Mr A. These are dated 
21 June, 5 July and 19 July 2019. I believe Nationwide also wrote to Mr A on 2 July 2019 
confirming his account was being closed.  
Mr A spoke to Nationwide on 25 July so I believe its more than likely Mr A knew there was a 
debt and that Nationwide wished to have it repaid. He agreed to make a repayment but then 
didnt. I cant say for sure whether Mr A received the default notice Nationwide sent on 
8 August 2019. But Ive seen nothing to indicate he wouldnt have. Mr A hasnt told us he 
didnt receive any of the earlier letters. So Id be surprised if it was only the default notice he 
hadnt received.
However even if he didnt receive the letter, I dont think he could have been surprised at the 
default notice as he knew he was being asked to repay a debt which had existed for some 
time.
Mr A has also mentioned there was some confusion when he repaid the debt in May 2020. I 
believe this was because hed made the repayment direct to Nationwide. And by that time, 
theyd transferred debt collection to a separate recovery company. But I can see from the 
statement for the period June 2019 to June 2020, all payments  and the subsequent 
repayment to Mr A of just over £137  are noted and Mr A didnt overpay overall.
Having considered all the evidence, I dont believe Nationwide did anything wrong in 
applying a default to Mr As credit record. I appreciate this will have a lasting impact on his 
finances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman