DRN-2161183
The complaint
Mr S has complained that when Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed the type of bank 
account he held, it mis-sold him a package of potential benefits called a Travel Pack.
Barclays charged Mr S monthly fees for the Travel Pack and he thinks it should refund them 
to him.
What happened 
Mr S has banked with Barclays for quite a long time. He first opened one of its fee-free 
accounts in February 1998. In July 2007, Barclays sold him a packaged bank account called 
an Additions Plus account, for which it charged him a monthly fee. In January 2017, 
Barclays then switched him to a current account with no monthly fee and added two 
packages of the potential benefits; the first was the Travel Pack I have already mentioned 
and the second was called a Tech Pack. Barclays charged Mr S monthly fees for both of 
these packs. 
Mr S is only complaining about the Travel Pack, not the Tech Pack. Similarly, he is not 
complaining about the Additions Plus account. Hes told us I am not making complaint 
about my account.my complaint is about the Travel Pack. 
Two of our adjudicators have already looked into this complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything significantly wrong. Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr S and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to explain the background to this case. During the period from 2015 to 
2017, Barclays took a commercial decision to change the range of bank accounts it offered. 
As result, it withdrew the Additions Plus account from its customers. Along with other banks, 
Barclays is allowed to make changes like this. But to treat Mr S fairly, I would have expected 
it to give him notice, provide him with clear information about the changes and give him 
reasonable choices. 
One of the potential benefits of the Travel Pack was a travel insurance policy and Mr S is 
complaining very specifically about the way Barclays described the cover the policy 
provided. His complaint stems from a claim he made on the policy, which the insurer 
declined. 
The insurer was not Barclays, which used a third party to provide the travel insurance, and 
Mr S has also complained to us about the insurer and the outcome of his claim. We have 
responded to that complaint separately and I will not go into it in any depth here. However, 
some of the details of the claim are relevant to this complaint, so I will summarise them for 
context. 
In outline, Mr S went on a holiday abroad with his family and hes told us that shortly after he 
arrived at his destination the airline with which he had flown emailed him to say that it had 
cancelled all of (its) flights due to re-organizing the business. Mr S thought that the travel 
insurance policy would cover him for the cost of his return flights and related expenses, but 
as it didnt, he thinks Barclays misled him about the scope of the cover. 
To support his case, Mr S has sent us a copy of a brochure which Barclays sent him about 
the Travel Pack called Your Travel Pack when it switched his account. He has quoted from 
a section of the brochure called Table of Benefits which says that in the event of 
cancellation the policy will refund your own personal travel and accommodation cost that 
you cannot get back. 
However, later on, the same booklet describes the exclusions to the policy. This description 
is reasonably prominent, with a large heading, and is quite easy to find. The opening 
statement says, This policy does not cover the following and the sixth exclusion then says:
Claims  resulting  from any tour operator,  travel  agent,  airline  or other  service  
provider  becoming  insolvent  and not being  able or willing  to carry  out any part of 
their duty to you.
I understand that the underlying reason that the airline cancelled its flights was severe 
financial difficulties and insolvency. So, it seems to me that Barclays had provided Mr S with 
reasonable information that the type of event which led to his claim would not be covered.
I dont think that Barclays misled Mr S about the scope of the insurance the Travel Pack 
provided. Consequently, l dont think that Barclays mis-sold the Travel Pack to him in the 
way he has described. However, in fairness to him, I have also checked to see if Barclays 
met its other obligations to him when it switched his account and added the Travel Pack. 
To support Barclays case that it did things fairly for Mr S, it has sent us copies of two letters 
it sent to him during late 2016 and early 2017. 
The first letter told Mr S that Barclays intended to switch him to a Barclays Bank Account 
with added Travel Pack (and Tech Pack). It told him how much the Travel Pack (and Tech 
Pack) would cost and what features they would provide. It also told Mr S that he could opt 
out of both packs, in which case his account would become A Barclays Bank Account  
with no monthly account fee ... or keep just one of them. It described how he could make 
these changes either by visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone 
number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr around four months after the first. This letter told him 
that Barclays had changed his account and that it would start to charge him for the two 
packs and again told him how much they would cost. It also told him that he could remove 
them from his account at any time.
I think that with these two letters Barclays met its obligations to Mr S. I dont think that is mis-
sold the Travel Pack to him. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC treated him unfairly when it added a Travel Pack to his account. I am not 
going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman