DRN-2964261
The complaint
Miss P complains about poor service and communication by Bank of Scotland plc when she 
repaid her mortgage.  
What happened
Miss P repaid her mortgage in December 2020. Bank of Scotland says it sent (and re-sent) 
closure letters to her confirming this. Miss P says she didnt receive the letters. She says she 
needed the letter to have the charge removed from her property title. She said she wanted to 
take out a new secured loan. Miss P is unhappy with the service provided by Bank of 
Scotland and says: 
She didnt receive the closure letters and believes Bank of Scotland didnt send them.
Bank of Scotland said it couldnt make the closure letter available via her branch, or 
through her banking app. It later said she could collect the letter from her branch, but 
when she went to the branch she was told this wasnt possible.
Bank of Scotland didnt send title deeds to her solicitor.
Bank of Scotland should review where its customer service team is based, its quality and 
training. It should provide a step by step guide of what happens when you repay a 
mortgage. Miss P says she wasnt told she wouldnt have access to the mortgage 
account through the app after the mortgage was repaid, and thinks this should be 
possible. 
Her credit file wasnt updated quickly enough to show the mortgage as settled. 
She was given conflicting information about her direct debit.
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland had incorrectly told Miss P she could collect the 
closure letter from a branch. He said this caused her inconvenience for which it should pay 
£50 compensation. The investigator didnt recommend upholding the other parts of Miss Ps 
complaint.
Miss P didnt agree. She said compensation of £240 would be fair, and set out how shed 
calculated this amount. She said the stress caused by the poor service triggered health 
conditions. Miss P said given the importance of the closure letter, Bank of Scotland is 
responsible for ensuring she receives it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P says paying off a mortgage only happens once or twice in a lifetime and customers 
cant be expected to know what happens. I understand the point she makes and how 
strongly she feels about her complaint. I also agree with her that I cant be certain that Bank 
of Scotland did what it said it did  for instance that it sent the closure letters. I should 
explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss P didnt receive the closure letters and believes Bank of Scotland didnt send them.
Bank of Scotlands records show it sent the closure letter and re-sent it when Miss P said 
she hadnt received it. Im sorry Miss P didnt receive the letter, and that we cant know for 
certain why this was. But I dont think, based on the available evidence, I can fairly find that 
Bank of Scotland didnt send the letters to her when it said it did. It follows that I dont think it 
breached its own timescales to send the letter out. Bank of Scotland says it sent the letter by 
second class post, which is its usual process. I dont think this was unfair. I think Bank of 
Scotland could reasonably expect the letter to be delivered. It arranged for the letter to be 
sent again, including by first class.
Bank of Scotland says Miss Ps solicitor didnt need the closure letter to start the usual 
process for the charge to be removed from the title register. As far as Im aware theres 
nothing unusual about the title to Miss Ps property which would mean this wasnt the case.
Its unfortunate that Miss P didnt receive the closure letter as it contained information about 
the next steps, such as engaging a solicitor to remove the charge and that the property title 
was registered. 
Perhaps Miss P thought she needed a closure letter before the charge could be removed. If 
so, I can appreciate why she found it stressful that she didnt receive the letter. But I dont 
think Bank of Scotland mis-informed her about needing the closure letter. And I think it most 
likely did send it to her. I think Bank of Scotland responded fairly when Miss P said she 
hadnt received the letter by sending it again. 
Bank of Scotland said it couldnt make the closure letter available via her branch. It later 
said she could collect the letter from her branch, but when she went to the branch she 
was told this wasnt possible.
Miss P was incorrectly told that she could collect the letter from a branch. Miss P works night 
shifts and it shows how much she wanted the letter that, after working her shift, she waited in 
the cold for the branch to open. It must have been very disappointing to then be told by the 
branch that they couldnt provide the letter to her. 
Bank of Scotland didnt send title deeds to her solicitor.
Bank of Scotland says the property title is registered. It didnt have title deeds for Miss Ps 
property. I dont think Bank of Scotland made an error when it didnt send title deeds to 
Miss Ps solicitor.
Bank of Scotland should review where its customer service team is based, its quality and 
training. It should provide a step by step guide of what happens when you repay a 
mortgage. Its banking app should continue to allow access to the mortgage account after 
the mortgage is repaid. 
These are matters for Bank of Scotland to make a business decision about. I cant require it 
to make the changes Miss P suggests. Miss P has said she included these matters in her 
complaint letter as feedback for Bank of Scotland, rather than for us to look into. Bank of Scotland said its customer services team is located in the UK and it had forwarded 
Miss Ps feedback about the app to the relevant team. 
Miss Ps credit file wasnt updated quickly enough to show the mortgage as settled. 
Like many lenders, Bank of Scotland sends updates about accounts to the credit reference 
agencies on a monthly basis. It sent an update for Miss Ps account in January to show the 
mortgage as settled. I dont think it made an error here.
Miss P was given conflicting information about her direct debit.
Miss P made an overpayment in November 2020. She says the amount for her direct debit in 
December was about £1 more than shed been told it would be when making the 
overpayment. Bank of Scotland said this was because of a few days interest applied before 
the overpayment was processed. It wrote to Miss P with the correct amount later in 
November 2020, before the direct debit payment was taken. 
While there might have been a misunderstanding about the exact amount of the payment 
due in December 2020, given the amount of the difference and that Miss P was given the 
correct amount soon after any inconvenience would have been small. 
Putting things right
Some of the issues Miss P complains about are matters for Bank of Scotland to make a 
business decision about. So while Miss P would like it to change the way its app works, how 
often it sends updates to credit reference agencies and how it delivers letters this isnt 
something I can fairly require it to do. 
I dont think, on balance, I can fairly find that Bank of Scotland didnt send the closure letters 
to Miss P when it said it did. And I dont think Bank of Scotland misled Miss P that she 
needed the letter to arrange for the charge to be removed from the property title. I dont think 
Bank of Scotland made errors with Miss Ps credit file, title deeds or direct debit that would 
make it reasonable to require it to pay compensation.
However, Bank of Scotland did make an error when it said Miss P could collect the letter 
from a branch. Miss P says she waited in the cold for the branch to open, after her shift. I 
think its fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland to pay £50 for the inconvenience and 
upset this caused, as it agreed to do. 
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc should pay £50 to Miss P.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman