DRN-2760396
The complaint
Mr Ts representative has complained, on his behalf, that John Dyer (Life & Pensions) 
Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension 
plan (PPP). Mr Ts representative has said that the transfer wasnt in his best interests. 
What happened
Mr T approached John Dyer for advice about his deferred benefits with the BSPS, having 
previously been a client of a different business which had been unable to proceed with the 
advice provision. He first met with John Dyer in September 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had made the announcement that the 
terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That 
announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size 
could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  
the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, the BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, 
such as a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 11 
December 2017. This was subsequently extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr Ts circumstances were recorded in a financial planning questionnaire as follows:
He was 33 years old, married and had no financial dependants. However, Mrs T was 
recorded as being pregnant at the time. 
He was employed, earning £42,000 pa. Mrs T earned £32,000 pa and was a member 
of her employers pension scheme.
He owned his home, worth around £260,000, which had a mortgage of £216,000, 
with a 27 year term remaining. 
He and his wife had a mortgage protection policy in place and death in service 
benefits through his employment.
In terms of Mr Ts deferred benefit entitlement, Mr T had been a member of the BSPS for 16 
years. He had a normal retirement age of 65, at which point John Dyer said that he could 
expect an annual income of £16,440, or tax free cash of £77,507 and a reduced income of 
£11,626 pa.
Mr T received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £217,638 in 
September 2017.
Within the suitability report issued in January 2018, Mr Ts objectives were recorded as 
follows:
To control his pension fund and remove the uncertainty surrounding his BSPS 
benefits.
He wanted the option to either fully retire or phase in benefits, through flexible 
income, once he was above the minimum retirement age of 55. 
To secure the option of a lump sum payment for his wife in the event of his death.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It 
concluded that the PPP would need to grow by 5.3% pa to match the BSPS 2 benefits at a 
retirement age of 65, or 4.8% pa if tax free cash was taken.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 4.6% pa to match the PPF benefits, or 4.3% 
if tax free cash was taken. 
At a retirement age of 60, the PPP would need to grow by 5.2% to match the PPF benefits, 
or 4.9% if tax free cash was taken.
The fee to complete the transfer value analysis was recorded as being £4,353. There would 
also be an ongoing advice fee of 0.5% pa, along with fund charges of 0.72% and platform 
administration costs of 0.34% pa.
John Dyer recommended that Mr T transfer his deferred benefits in order for him to achieve 
his objectives, and Mr T accepted the recommendation.
Mr T then complained to John Dyer through his representative, but it said that it didnt 
receive a reply to this. And so it referred the complaint to this service.
We then received a response to the complaint from John Dyer, which may be summarised 
as follows:
Mr T was referred to John Dyer by a colleague, who was an existing client. Hed 
previously taken advice from another local firm of advisers and had decided to 
transfer his defined benefits.
The paperwork had already been completed and sent to the receiving pension 
provider. But following an intervention by the regulator, the prior firm of advisers was 
instructed to cease all transfer advice, and the receiving provider declined to proceed 
with the transfer.
Mr T approached John Dyer to assist him and he was able to negotiate an extension 
to the expiry of his transfer value with the BSPS administrators.
Although John Dyer explained that it would need to begin the transfer advice process 
again, Mr T informed it that he hadnt changed his mind and still wanted to transfer.
Mr Ts rationale was that he was concerned about the direction of his employer and 
the position of the pension scheme  especially that it might fall into the PPF. He was 
also attracted to the flexibility of benefits, the ability to retire early and the lump sum 
death benefits which were associated with a transfer.
Although separate life cover was discussed to provide a lump sum benefit if he retained his deferred benefits, this was discounted on the grounds of cost.
John Dyer explained the services it could offer, along with a discussion in respect of 
his circumstances and objectives and a detailed comparison of the benefits of the 
BSPS and a PPP. A discussion also occurred in respect of the ramifications of the 
BSPS entering the PPF, or the BSPS 2.
It then obtained two TVAS reports, one of which used the BSPS 2 for comparison 
purposes, and Mr T took these away to consider. On the basis of the critical yields, 
an active managed portfolio was recommended, which matched Mr Ts attitude to 
risk and had demonstrated good performance in the last few years.
Mr T was adamant that he wished to transfer and he enquired about the progress of 
the transfer on a regular basis. 
Our investigation
One of our investigators considered the matter, and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. She said the following in summary:
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, she first considered the required critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits. She thought that this might have been 
achievable, but couldnt see that the pension provider charges had been factored in 
to the TVAS, so she thought that the actual growth requirement would be higher than 
5.3% pa to just match the scheme benefits.
Although the investigator noted that Mr T had been attributed a high-medium risk 
rating, she also took into account the answers Mr T had given in response to the risk 
questionnaire and his lack of investment experience, and concluded that he was 
likely to have been a more cautious investor. Mr T had also requested that his risk 
rating be lowered.
The investigator also considered Mr Ts capacity for loss. Although the suitability 
report had said that he could afford to suffer some downside reduction in the value 
of his pension without significant effects on his standard of living, she noted that the 
OPS benefits represented a large proportion of Mr Ts retirement funds, and he didnt 
have any savings or investments.
The investigator also noted Mr Ts outstanding mortgage of around £216,000, and 
that he had little equity in the property. Hed also only recently joined the replacement 
defined contribution scheme.
Mr T was also 22 years from being able to access his pension benefits, and so the 
PPP would have needed to perform consistently well for a long time period. In 
contrast to the PPP, the OPS benefits also levied no fees, the investigator said.
She also said quoted COBS 19.1 from the regulators handbook, which said that the 
achievability of a critical yield wouldnt, in itself, mean that the transfer advice was 
suitable. There needed to be further benefits.But in terms of retaining investment control over his pension funds, that particular 
objective didnt seem to match the information recorded about Mr Ts background. He 
had no prior experience of investments and wasnt a sophisticated investor. There 
was therefore no reason in the investigators view as to why Mr T would want a more 
hands on approach to controlling his investments.
The investigator also reiterated that Mr T was at least 22 years from being able to 
access his benefits, and that he was in good health. In terms of death benefits, he 
would have had death in service benefits of four times his salary, and his mortgage 
was protected by a separate policy.
Although Mr T may have wanted to retire at 55 and a PPP would have allowed him to 
do so, this would also have been possible with the OPS benefits, and Mr T could 
have revisited his retirement plans nearer the time.
The investigator also acknowledged John Dyers position that Mr T had been 
insistent that he wished to transfer, but she didnt think the available evidence 
supported that position. 
Having concluded that the transfer advice was unsuitable, the investigator recommended 
that John Dyer undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators guidance, 
on the basis that Mr T would have retained his deferred benefits in the scheme. 
Mr Ts representative accepted the investigators view. But John Dyer disagreed with the 
investigators conclusions, along with aspects of Mr Ts own statement in bringing the 
complaint, saying the following in summary:
It reiterated that Mr T approached it after advice had been given by a previous 
business. It also said that everything was explained in full to Mr T. The advantages 
and disadvantages were discussed, and at no point was it suggested that the PPF 
could fail, as had been suggested by Mr Ts representative.
Mr Ts main objective was the lump sum death benefit for his wife, and the further 
objective of early retirement was discussed in the context of the option of phased 
retirement and the flexibility this would afford.
Mr and Mrs T signed and returned the declaration, confirming their understanding of 
the reports provided to them.
Once Mr T had been informed that the prior firm of advisers had been instructed to 
stop its advice process by the FCA, Mr T didnt decide to stop at that point. Mr T 
effectively decided to transfer not just once, but twice. He was adamant that 
transferring was the best course of action  and had arranged an extension to the 
transfer value expiry to facilitate it.
It wasnt possible for Mr T to simply continue with the previous advice process, which 
is why Mr T sought urgent assistance from John Dyer.
Its process was to initially approach every transfer of defined benefits as being 
unsuitable, as set out in the report to Mr T.
All charges had been taken into account in calculating the critical yield. The 
investigator had said that this was achievable, and it should also be noted that the 
BSPS 2 scheme could have been adjusted later  which was the fear of employees at the time.
The questionnaire used to assess Mr Ts attitude to risk was an industry standard 
tool. Once the answers to the questions had been used to generate a score, 
discussion were held as to whether the results were accurate, and in this case it was 
adjusted  as could have been the case at any time.
As Mr T was only 33, with 22 years left until his earliest retirement date, it was 
accepted that he could afford to suffer some downside reduction in the value of his 
pension without affecting his future standard of living.
John Dyer didnt regard the rate of required return as the only reason to transfer, but 
rather as a part of the process. Mr Ts objectives were taken into account. Mr T, and 
his colleagues, had concerns about their future employment and the future of the 
pension scheme. They had read about other schemes which had been pillaged by 
employers. These were very real concerns in late 2017 and couldnt be disregarded.
In terms of early retirement, whilst this was possible within the scheme, penalties 
would be applied for doing so. Neither the BSPS 2 nor the PPF would offer the same 
flexibility as a PPP.
Mr T also valued a lump sum for the benefit of his wife in the event of his death, 
rather than the spouses pension with no flexibility.
John Dyers correspondence with Mr T repeatedly referred to his stated objectives, 
and if it had misunderstood these, John Dyer had urgently asked him to inform it of 
this. However, despite being provided with ample opportunity to do so, Mr T hadnt 
done this.
The recommendation was made on the understanding that Mr T understood the risks 
of the transfer and that he could accept them.
The risk warnings were repeated several times in its correspondence with Mr T. It 
queried what it was supposed to do in such circumstances, for example, perhaps 
telling a client that it knows what is right for them better than they do themselves. And 
if clients didnt read the reports provided to them, then it queried the point of issuing 
them.
There was no mention of Mr T wanting to retain investment control as had been 
suggested by the investigator, so this should be disregarded as a recorded objective.
John Dyer asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review. The 
investigator acknowledged this, but also added the following in response to the points made:
With regard to the attitude to risk questionnaire, she noted that Mr T had responded 
to five of the ten questions with neither agree or disagree, and that this contradicted 
the statements with which he had agreed. She said it was difficult, based upon this, 
to conclude that Mr T would be properly categorised as a high-medium investor.
Instead, a robust conversation should have occurred about this, and if it had, it would 
probably have concluded that Mr T wasnt prepared to take the type of risk which had 
been deemed suitable for him.
But Mr T didnt in any case have the capacity for loss which might support such a 
categorisation of attitude to risk.Although Mr T may have had concerns about his employer and the future of the 
pension scheme, it was up to John Dyer to explain that the pension benefits were 
ringfenced. There was no certainty at the time that the BSPS would be moved into 
the PPF, and Mr T should have been advised to wait and see what happened with 
the BSPS 2 before making the irreversible decision to transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time John Dyer advised Mr T 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like John Dyer, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, John 
Dyer needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr 
Ts objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of John Dyers advice to Mr T in the context of the 
above requirements.
John Dyers rationale for transferring
Mr T had approached John Dyer on the recommendation of a colleague, as he was 
uncertain about the future of the BSPS. Although Ive noted John Dyers position that Mr T 
was adamant that the transfer proceed, he wasnt categorised as an execution only or 
insistent client, and it was taking him through the advice process from the beginning. And so, 
irrespective of Mr Ts actual decision making upon receiving a recommendation, John Dyer 
could be confident that he would be acting upon, or at least taking into account, its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, John Dyer undertook its fact finding for Mr T and then set 
out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. The latter, as set out above, may be 
summarised as follows:
Lump sum death benefits for Mrs T
The option for early retirement
Reshape his benefits to enable him to take a flexible income.
Remove his pension benefits from the uncertainty surrounding his employment and 
pension scheme
As with the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the starting assumption 
for an assessment of Mr Ts options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet specific objectives. And so 
Ill therefore explore these objectives further below.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
John Dyer obtained two TVAS reports for comparison purposes to determine the viability of 
the transfer to meet Mr Ts objectives from a financial perspective. Its confirmed that the 
most relevant of these took into account the benefits which would be provided by the BSPS 
2, and it produced the critical yields to match the benefits provided by that successor 
scheme and the PPF.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late 
October 2017, and provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. And before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. Businesses werent required to reference these when 
providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of 
the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the 31 whole years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.7% pa. And the growth rates used in the TVAS to illustrate the benefits 
which might be payable from a PPP were 1.3%, 4.3% and 7.3% for the low, mid and high 
projections respectively.
The critical yields for retirement at age 65 with the BSPS 2, 5.3% if the full scheme pension 
was taken, and 4.8% if tax free cash was taken, were therefore higher than both the discount 
(or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the mid-band growth rate 
used by the pension provider. Both John Dyer and our investigator have nevertheless 
considered the critical yields to be achievable, with the former saying that the managed 
portfolio to achieve the required growth rate was suitable for Mr Ts attitude to investment 
risk. 
Im less convinced that the critical yields were in fact achievable, year on year, for the 
number of years that Mr T had until he reached retirement age. And as a reminder, these 
growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. There needed to be a realistic 
chance that the benefits of the scheme could be bettered through transferring. As such, my 
view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a purely financial perspective, especially 
given the valuable guarantees which Mr T would be relinquishing. 
But as pointed out by the investigator, the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone 
wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of a transfer. And John Dyer has also itself 
commented that the basis of the recommendation was the benefit to Mr T in terms of other 
objectives being met - including control and flexibility, along with the different format of death 
benefits with a PPP.
Before I assess those in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that John Dyer did provide 
warnings on the guarantees which would be given up, but as John Dyer will be aware, risk 
warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. John Dyer needed to be satisfied, 
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the 
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr T.
As Ive said above, John Dyers reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr T 
required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and objectives. And so Ive 
given this argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I dont think the type of portfolio into which Mr T was advised to place his transferred funds for the purpose of later flexible access was necessarily 
unsuitable for the risk rating which was attributed to him. And I also acknowledge that Mr T 
was likely to have understood the principle of needing to take some risk to achieve the 
required reward, along with the discussions around such concepts that he would have had 
with colleagues, and perhaps most notably the firm which had previously advised him. 
And so I think Mr T may have had a reasonable understanding of the concept of risk/reward. 
It is nevertheless notable, however, that following further discussions with John Dyer, Mr Ts 
risk attitude was downgraded from that which had initially been recorded.
And Im inclined to agree with the investigators comments relating to Mr Ts likely attitude to 
investment risk. He had exhibited no prior inclination to take investment risk, although I also 
accept that he perhaps hadnt necessarily had the opportunity or means to do so. But I do 
also think the investigators comments about Mr Ts capacity to take financial risks with his 
pension funds are pertinent to overall suitability here. Mr T had joined the replacement 
defined contribution scheme in 2017, and so, other than the state pension which wouldnt be 
payable until age 68, the defined benefits accrued through the BSPS were likely to have 
been his only source of guaranteed income. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them 
would therefore have had a considerable impact on his financial security in retirement.
But even if Im to accept that Mr T was accurately recorded as having a high-medium 
attitude to risk, Ive also noted that, according to the Risk and return expectations graph 
provided by John Dyer, he could expect an average yearly return from that level of risk of 
just over 3%. This was some way below the return required to just match the scheme 
benefits.
However, I also dont think Mr T in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In 
terms of the control and flexibility argument, I understand this to be that Mr T would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown, or phased withdrawal, arrangement to satisfy changing income 
needs. But its unclear as to why Mr T would have needed such flexibility, especially given 
the investment risk associated with it, his attitude to risk, lack of capacity to incur losses and 
apparent lack of any historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to 
take risks with his pension income.  
And in particular Ive thought about whether Mr T could meet his objectives of retiring early 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. I note 
that, in the suitability report, Mr T was recorded as wanting to be able to either retire fully or 
begin a phased withdrawal of retirement benefits once he was above the minimum age of 
55. There was no mention of a specific retirement age which Mr T had in mind, which in my 
view isnt particularly surprising given his distance in years from retirement. And so Ill 
address the general principle of early retirement, rather than a requirement or desire to do so 
at a particular age.
And in my consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr T to take tax 
free cash from the BSPS 2 or PPF at any age beyond 55 without also starting to take an 
income. And I accept that, if Mr T did in fact reduce his income after age 55, this would have 
an impact on the household finances.
But by age 55, Mr T would have accrued 22 years worth of defined contributions in the 
replacement scheme. And so its likely that he could have relied on the proceeds of this, 
from whatever age after 55, and then taken guaranteed benefits from either the BSPS 2 or 
the PPF as and when needed. Its entirely possible in my view that, based on his earnings, 
contribution rates and age, and also dependent upon which age after 55 he in fact retired, he 
would have been able to rely upon the accrued benefits from the defined contribution scheme to defer retirement at the normal defined benefit scheme age of 65, and then be 
subject to no early retirement income deduction.
Mr T would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income or lump sum 
withdrawals through the defined contribution accrual, until the point that he either needed, or 
chose to begin taking, benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. 
Ive then thought about Mr Ts outstanding commitments. Mr Ts mortgage was due to be 
repaid by the time he reached 60, or would have required a partial element of any tax free 
cash entitlement Mr T wished to take from his defined contribution scheme benefits. And so 
this shouldnt have presented an obstacle to Mr T being able to retire early, and flexibly, 
through the phasing of his defined contributions benefits until he began taking those from the 
BSPS 2 or PPF.
But even if a different interpretation was possible on this, and there was likely to be 
insufficient headroom in terms of combined income (including any drawdowns from the 
defined contribution scheme) for Mr and Mrs Ts expenditure after Mr T had reached 
retirement age, and/or the mortgage had needed to be increased/extended, any remaining 
mortgage could have been restructured to require lower monthly repayments for the 
remaining years before Mr T accessed his defined benefit scheme pension funds at age 65. 
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs T could have still repaid some of the capital, but at a lower overall 
rate for the additional years, in order to provide more available income when Mr T retired at 
age 65.
As to Mr Ts acceptance of the proposition of risk/reward, he was accruing further benefits in 
his defined contribution scheme, and given the contributions rates to that scheme (10% and 
6% employer and employee contributions respectively) and the number of years left to 
retirement compared against the benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, the majority of 
his pension provision would likely be derived of the defined contribution scheme. As such, 
Mr T was already by necessity taking investment risk through the replacement scheme.
But in light of this, and as Ive said above, I think the guarantees attached to the defined 
benefits would have been of considerable value and these benefits should not have been 
relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which could in any case have been met by fairly 
uncomplicated planning around his defined contribution and defined benefit pension accruals 
and accessibility, even from 55 if required. 
And on that particular note, I must also re-emphasise that Mr T was 33 at the point of advice, 
and so many years away from retirement. Ive noted the comment in the suitability report that 
Mr T was concerned about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Ts 
concerns around this should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will 
be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns 
about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, 
the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately 
balanced view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. The whole point of the BSPS consultation, which John Dyer 
noted had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid 
the necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice 
the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative. But I note that, contrary 
to these indications, the suitability report said that one of the factors Mr T needed to take into 
account when considering the transfer options was that The BSPS will move into the PPF 
next year which means that your benefits will be reduced. When the advice was given, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF. 
In fact, all indications were to the contrary. 
And so my view here is that Mr T simply didnt need to make any decisions about 
transferring out his defined benefits at that point. The prospect of entering the PPF had 
receded, but even if this was still the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him 
with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did 
in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. His plans, including retirement, may in any 
case have changed significantly in the 22 intervening years between then and Mr T reaching 
age 55. Any flexibility requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of 
Mr Ts retirement. 
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the planned early 
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was a 
sufficient reason for Mr T to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
On the basis that Mr T was married, Mr T was recorded as being keen, in the event of his 
death, for death benefits to be paid to his wife as a lump sum.
And its fair to say that, after the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his 
beneficiary/ies, rather than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme. I 
note that Mrs T was recorded as being pregnant, and so the matter of benefits in respect of 
financial dependants beyond just Mrs T should also have been a consideration.
But I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ts benefits. Firstly, he had no 
particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not 
benefit from a pension income derived of his scheme membership upon retirement for a 
reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
Secondly, the accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement 
rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that individuals spouse or dependants. 
The financial wellbeing of Mrs T and future dependants would inevitably have been a priority 
for Mr T, but the recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Ts 
best interests in terms of his retirement needs. And under the schemes terms, Mr Ts 
dependants would in any case have been entitled to a lump sum return of his contributions 
to the scheme, together with compound interest. The fund value of Mr Ts defined 
contribution scheme membership would also have been available as a lump sum. 
There is also the matter of the lump sum benefits which would have been paid, had Mr T 
remained in the same employment  recorded as being four times his annual salary.
Mrs T would also have been entitled to a spouses pension equivalent to half of that which 
would be payable to him, along with a further pension in respect of financially dependent 
children.
As noted by the investigator, the outstanding mortgage was covered by a separate policy, 
and was in any case due to be repaid by age 60  and so shouldnt have represented an 
outstanding liability in the event of death either pre or post retirement.
Notwithstanding the above, a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for his beneficiaries cannot 
reasonably have trumped Mr Ts own personal requirement to benefit from his pension. And 
there was no detail about why a lump sum would have been so important to Mrs T that it 
would justify a transfer of Mr Ts guaranteed benefits.I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave a 
lump sum financial legacy to his beneficiaries, but not essential, and certainly not of 
sufficient importance, given the other death benefits which would be available, to justify Mr T 
compromising the security of his own retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but given the actual level of 
benefits which would in any case be available from the scheme, I dont think the right 
conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Mr T retaining his deferred benefits 
were present here.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mr T was relinquishing, along with the considerable other benefits to 
which Mr Ts wife (and future children) would be entitled in the event of his death, and John 
Dyer should have advised him that his own financial security in retirement took priority here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ts wife by 
way of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr T. 
What should John Dyer have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ts 
decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr T. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr T to make any decision 
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time. 
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr T was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr T, amongst many others in a similar position, may 
have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but he 
was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. 
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the worst 
case scenario of entering the PPF. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control 
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ts 
income needs could have been comfortably met by well-planned access to his different 
types of accrued benefits by the time he came retirement. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr T to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ts concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income 
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future 
pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Although not a stated objective, tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage repayment (if 
required) would have been available both from his accrued defined contribution and defined 
benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, 
albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP. But for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think these should have been a more important consideration than Mr Ts own 
retirement guarantees which hed be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yield was higher than the discount rate and the mid band growth rate set 
out by the TVAS pension provider, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to 
even simply match the scheme benefits. This position is supported by John Dyers own 
graph of the returns which could be expected from an individual with a high-medium risk 
rating. The justification for nevertheless transferring was that it was nevertheless suitable in 
view of Mr Ts stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. 
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what John Dyer considers to have been the 
overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
John Dyers view is that Mr T was nevertheless intent on effecting the transfer. And Ive 
noted the comments relating to Mr Ts keenness that the transfer proceed, even once it was 
known that the previous firm of advisers had been prevented from processing transfers. But 
firstly, John Dyer has itself said that it, quite properly, began the entire advice process again. 
Mr T is therefore very likely to have initially been acting on the advice provided by the 
previous firm, and would have been persuaded by the rationale previously set out to transfer. 
But this was John Dyers opportunity to take proper account of Mr Ts circumstances and 
objectives and advise him not to do so, for all the reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively undo the advice of 
a previous firm. But I think the advantages of Mr T retaining his scheme benefits, if set out in 
terms similar to those above, would have persuaded Mr T to do just that. And I think any 
concerns about the pension scheme, especially relating to the access that an employer 
might have to the pension funds and the safeguards which are in place top prevent that from 
happening, would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr T in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said 
above, I accept that Mr T was given risk warnings and was capable of understanding them), 
I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be in a position to 
take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they wanted to transfer their 
defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter involving many factors 
with which Mr T, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence his reliance on a 
professional party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr T simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Ts decision (and as has been claimed, sense of urgency relating to this) to proceed may 
well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial viability of the BSPS, but as 
Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and balanced assessment of the 
schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process.Taking account of Mr Ts circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that John Dyer should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr T would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr T, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ts attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Ts options and the future benefits available from both the 
BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) 
and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr T were available without needing 
to transfer  early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of BSPS 
benefits which would have been available to him (or indeed through the PPF).
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Ts attitude to risk with regard to his 
pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it was 
unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, could be bettered 
through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, 
when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 
2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the 
conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr T, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for John Dyer (Life 
& Pensions) Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ts deferred benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is that, had Mr T not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would have opted 
to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement 
within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred 
members. 
As Ive said above, the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the 
commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under 
the PPF. And so, on the basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and 
the tax free cash would likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr T would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income 
shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined benefits, which 
could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. 
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. John Dyer 
(Life & Pensions) Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
to obtain Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr 
T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require John 
Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require John Dyer (Life 
& Pensions) Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited pays Mr T the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my decision, the money award is binding on John Dyer (Life & Pensions) 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited. Further, 
its unlikely that Mr T can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T 
may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
Ive also considered whether any additional compensation should be paid to Mr T in respect 
of, for example, worry and distress that this matter may have caused him. But having done 
so, although I acknowledge that Mr T may have been concerned over what he thought was 
unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits, his retirement is still some years away, and 
so there would have been no cause for alarm over any immediate impact on his retirement 
plans. And so I dont think a further payment is necessary in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. John Dyer (Life & Pensions) Limited should 
undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr T 
accordingly.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman