DRN-3664217
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund him for a cash machine 
withdrawal.
What happened
Mr M used a travel card top up machine, adding £10 to the travel card. Mr M checked his 
account later and saw £300 had been withdrawn from a cash machine around the same 
time. Mr M hadnt lost his card.
Mr M contacted Barclays and told it he hadnt withdrawn the £300. Barclays investigated the 
withdrawal and saw both transactions had been made using Mr Ms card and personal 
identification number (PIN).
Barclays investigation showed the two transactions took place eight seconds apart, and 
decided this didnt give a random third party time to use Mr Ms card and return it to him. 
Barclays didnt refund Mr M as it thought hed carried out the transactions.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service, and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator didnt think Barclays had provided any explanation as to how the two 
transactions could have been carried out using the same card and PIN, when considering 
the timings of the transactions.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators assessment. Barclays said it only needed to 
prove authorisation of the transactions, and it had done this. Barclays suggested the 
technical evidence for the £10 transaction may be incorrect.
Barclays asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulation 67 of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 explains:
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to (a) the execution of the
payment transaction; or (b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that
payment transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally, banks will be 
liable for unauthorised payments.
If Mr M made the disputed transactions himself, it wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to refund 
them. But Mr M says he wasnt involved in the £300 withdrawal. The key question for me to 
consider is whether Barclays has provided enough evidence to hold Mr M liable.
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr M authorised 
them, but Barclays cant simply say the use of the card and PIN issued to Mr M
conclusively proves the payments were authorised. 
This is in line with the FCAs position, as outlined in its document setting out its role under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
The FCA says:
To avoid doubt, it is not sufficient for the PSP (Barclays) to assert that the customer must 
have divulged the personalised security features of the payment instrument, and to 
effectively require the customer to prove that he did not. 
The burden of proof lies with the PSP and if a claim that a transaction is unauthorised is 
rejected, the rejection must be supported by sufficient evidence to prove that the customer is 
guilty of fraud, gross negligence or intentional breach and the reason for the rejection must 
be explained to the customer.
Unless Barclays can show consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised.
Ive looked closely at the technical evidence provided, and this shows the two transactions 
took place eight seconds apart. And the cash machine withdrawal was some considerable 
distance from the travel card top up machine.
I dont believe it would be possible to carry both transactions out, with the same card, if the 
timings are correct.
Barclays has suggested the travel card top up transaction was offline, which might mean the 
transaction was carried out at a different time but authorised later. Barclays also suggested 
the timing of the transaction is incorrect on the technical evidence. 
The technical evidence says the transaction wasnt offline, so I believe the transaction was 
carried out, and authorised, at the same time. And Mr M has provided proof, from the travel 
card company, to show his card was credited at the same time as the technical evidence.
Overall, Im persuaded the technical evidence for both transactions is correct. This means I 
think the two transactions took place just eight seconds apart. I dont think this is possible.
This means I dont think it would be fair, in these specific circumstances, for Barclays to hold 
Mr M liable for the £300 transaction. And this is even though the technical evidence shows 
both transactions were carried out using Mr Ms card and PIN. I dont believe Mr M 
consented to the cash machine withdrawal.
Barclays has said the FCA guidance isnt relevant here as it isnt accusing Mr M of fraud, gross negligence or an intentional breach. But Barclays is saying Mr M is asking for a £300 
refund when he carried out the transaction.
If Mr M is asking for a refund of a payment he made, he may be guilty of fraud, he would be 
trying to get £300 from Barclays hes not entitled to. I believe the FCA guidance is relevant 
here, so it follows its for Barclays to prove how these transactions were carried out by Mr M, 
not for Mr M, or I, to prove they werent carried out by him.
Barclays has relied on the technical evidence to say Mr M must have authorised the two 
transactions using his genuine card and PIN. But this same technical evidence suggests it 
was impossible for the two transactions to be carried out, eight seconds apart.
And I dont think Barclays has said anything that persuasively explains how the two 
transactions could have been performed, and relies on the technical evidence.
In the absence of any other evidence, and having considered the evidence Mr M has, I dont 
think it would be fair for Barclays to hold Mr M liable for the £300 cash machine withdrawal.
Putting things right
Because I dont believe its fair to hold Mr M liable for the cash machine withdrawal, Mr M 
should be refunded the £300. Mr M has been deprived of this £300, so its fair Barclays pays 
8% simple interest per year on this amount.
Mr M has explained the lack of this £300 has meant its been a struggle to pay bills. In the 
circumstances, I think a payment of £50 for the inconvenience Mr Ms been caused is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Barclays should:
refund Mr M £300
pay 8% simple interest on the £300 from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement
pay Mr M £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman