DRN-3585123
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) didnt assess their flood 
risk fairly when it increased their home insurance premium.
Both Mr and Mrs T are named policyholders on their Hiscox policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr T, Ill refer mainly to Mr T from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a Hiscox home insurance policy which covered both their primary and 
secondary homes. The policy had previously been with another insurer but was transferred 
to Hiscox in 2018 as part of a portfolio purchase.
In August 2021, when Mr Ts policy was due for renewal, Hiscox sent him a quote plus 
renewal documents. Mr T noticed that a previous flooding claim from 2016 on his secondary 
home hadnt been included on the insurance Statement of Fact. He told Hiscox about this, 
which led to an increase in his renewal quote.
Mr T didnt think this was fair because he considered the causes of the 2016 flood had been 
fixed. He believed he could show that no water would enter his property if the road were to 
flood again. Hes unhappy that Hiscox ignored this and refused to commission a survey to 
check this.
Hiscox explained that a propertys flood history, as well as other factors, can affect the 
premium. Its underwriters reviewed the renewal terms and were satisfied that the premium 
appropriately reflected the propertys risk profile. It told Mr T it would reduce the quote if he 
excluded flood cover from his policy.
Mr T agreed to this but remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He 
wants Hiscox to accept that hes removed the flood risk, reinstate cover for surface water 
flooding at no extra cost, and pay compensation for the time and inconvenience the matter 
has caused him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She 
explained that this service couldnt tell insurers how it should assess risk or how much it 
should charge its policyholders. She was satisfied that Hiscox had applied its pricing model 
fairly and treated Mr and Mrs T the same as other policyholders in similar circumstances. 
Mr T disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T believes Hiscox hasnt properly assessed the flood risk to his secondary home. More 
specifically, he argues that mitigation taken since 2016 means there is no flood risk to this 
property: the road drainage had been repaired and enhanced, air bricks had been removed 
from the property, and floors made solid. He also argues a point of principle: that insurers 
should recognise actions taken by policyholders to materially reduce risk.
Its important to note that our service cant tell an insurer how it should assess risk or how it 
should price its policies. The risk of insuring a property is Hiscoxs, so its right that it, like 
any insurer, should decide how it assesses and prices risk. Generally, we accept that an 
insurer can charge what it likes for insurance so long as it acts fairly. This means, among 
other things, applying its pricing model consistently and giving policyholders the chance to 
shop around to find a better deal from another insurer.
We asked Hiscox to explain why Mr and Mrs Ts premium increased. It gave two main 
reasons: first, changes to its pricing model; second, because it ceded flood cover to the 
Flood Re scheme due to Mr Ts previous flood claim. It also told us similar premium 
increases were seen by other policyholders in similar circumstances. 
As part of its evidence to us, Hiscox sent us part of its technical underwriting guidance. Im 
unable to share this with Mr T because its commercially sensitive. But Ive reviewed it and 
Im satisfied that Hiscox followed this guidance before it referred Mr T to the Flood Re 
scheme. Im also satisfied that it applied the guidance in the same way it would to any of its 
other policyholders. 
I appreciate that Mr T thinks Hiscox should assess the specific flood risk of his property and, 
as part of this, commission an independent survey. But, as Ive said above, its Hiscoxs 
decision how it assesses risk. This includes what factors it considers, what information it 
gathers and analyses, and what risk mitigation it is prepared to include in its pricing 
calculations.
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman