DRN-2473972
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the time it took Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to return some money 
in his account to the sender.
The circumstances that led to M Ms complaint arent in dispute so I wont repeat them all 
again here. But I would note the following:
Mr M got his money in the end, but there was a delay which the investigator thought 
could have been avoided if Wirecard had acted more appropriately. 
Mr M said hed had to pawn some items while waiting for the money and incurred 
interest and charges as result. But those costs had not been substantiated. So the 
investigators recommendation was for Wirecard to pay £300 compensation in 
recognition only of any trouble or upset Mr M had suffered. 
Wirecard and Mr M accepted the investigators conclusions. But Wirecard has not yet made 
settlement and has stopped corresponding with our service in relation to this complaint. So 
the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, and in the absence of any objections from either party, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator, for much the same reasons. In summary, I can 
understand why Wirecard had concerns about communicating with Mr M when it thought his 
account security had been compromised. But I think it should have done more to verify his 
identity and help ensure his money reached him sooner.
I think £300 compensation is fair in the circumstances given the impact of Wirecards 
actions. And the evidence Ive received to date, suggests the compensation hasnt yet been 
paid.
After Wirecard agreed with the investigator to pay compensation to Mr M, it asked for a bank 
statement relating to the account into which hed asked for the money to be paid. The 
investigator tried, numerous times, to share this document with Wirecard, but its not clear if 
it was ever received. The bank account in question is held in someone elses name and, 
given everything thats happened, I dont think its unreasonable for Wirecard to require this 
evidence before making payment. It seems likely Mr M will accept my decision and so, to try 
and help avoid further delays with settlement, I have included a further copy of the bank 
statement with this decision. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited should pay £300 to Mr M, if it 
hasnt done so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
If Mr M accepts my decision then I expect Wirecard to make settlement within 28 days of the 
date we tell it he has accepted.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman