DRN-2682280
The complaint
Miss H complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc managed her account. 
What happened
Miss H is unhappy about the way HSBC has managed her credit card account. Her 
complaints include:
No communication since February 2017
Making payments to clear a debt on an account which wasnt regulated
Not signposted to special support as a vulnerable customer
Address not changed
Debt not reviewed in 2017
Delay in responding to her complaint
Miss H held a credit card account with HSBC. In 2014 the credit agreement was cancelled, 
and the account was transferred to the banks recoveries department. 
In 2017 Miss H contacted HSBC to set up a repayment plan. Shes unhappy that she didnt 
receive any correspondence from HSBC until 2020. In 2020 she complained to HSBC about 
the way the account had been handled. In response, HSBC acknowledged that it had made 
errors and wrote off the outstanding debt of £5,504.07.
Miss H wasnt happy with the debt write off as a resolution. She feels that HSBC made 
numerous errors and would like this service to review these.
Our investigator explained to Miss H that there were some aspects of her complaint which 
we couldnt consider. This included complaints about complaint handling, and complaints 
which were brought out of time. Having explained what could be considered, the investigator 
didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. He said that HSBC agreed that it had made errors in failing 
to contact Miss H between 2017 and 2020 to conduct regular reviews and had written off the 
debt in acknowledgement of these errors. The investigator said that because HSBC had 
written off such a large amount, this was a fair resolution to Miss Hs complaint.
Miss H didnt agree. She felt that this service should be able to consider her complaint about 
complaint handling. She was also unhappy that the aspect of her complaint about annual 
statements was deemed to be out of time and said she hadnt become aware that she could 
complain about this until more recently and felt that it should be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has provided a detailed response to the investigators view. Im not going to comment 
on every single point shes raised but instead Ill focus on the parts which are most relevant 
to my decision. But Id like to assure Miss H that Ive taken account of everything shes said.
This service isnt able to consider a complaint about complaint handling on its own, because 
it isnt a regulated activity. This service is able to consider poor customer service as part of a 
wider complaint about a regulated activity. I understand that Miss H isnt happy about the 
way HSBC handled her complaint and I can see that it offered to pay £100 for the delays in 
responding to her. Im unable to consider Miss Hs complaint about complaint handling but 
Ive taken the customer service she received into account as part of my overall consideration 
of whether the way in which HSBS has responded to the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
This service isnt able to consider complaints when the event complained of happened more 
than 6 years ago and more than 3 years since a consumer ought reasonably to have 
become aware that he/she had cause to complain.  HSBC has objected to this service 
considering the aspect of Miss Hs complaint which relates to her credit agreement no longer 
being protected by the Consumer Credit Act when the account was passed to the recoveries 
team. Ive considered the relevant guidelines from the FCA handbook ad I agree with the 
investigator that this aspect of Miss Hs complaint cant be considered. Ill explain why.
Miss Hs complaint about her credit agreement relates to an event which happened more 
than 6 years ago. That is not in dispute. Ive taken into account what Miss H has said about 
when she first became aware that she could complaint and why she didnt bring the 
complaint sooner. Shes said that she didnt find about that her credit agreement had been 
cancelled until she complained to HSBC in 2020. Ive taken this into account, but I think Miss 
H ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause to complain before 2020. This is 
because she knew that she wasnt receiving the correct communications and statements 
from the bank in 2016, which is more than 3 years ago. Ive also considered whether there 
are any exceptional circumstances which might explain why Miss H didnt bring the 
complaint sooner. I understand that Miss H has had some difficult family and personal 
circumstances to deal with during the last few years. However, I can see that she has 
contacted HSBC during this time, including in 2017 to reduce the sum she was paying. So, 
Im unable to say that there are exceptional circumstances which prevented Miss H from 
bringing her complaint in time.
I understand that Miss H feels that HSBC has written off a debt which it could not enforce the 
payment of. Im unable to comment on this for the reasons Ive explained above. The 
complaint is out of time.
I understand that Miss H is unhappy that HSBC didnt change her address when it should 
have done. I can see that Miss H complained to HSBC about this and in its reply, it didnt 
provide a reason why the address hadnt been changed but confirmed that this had now 
been corrected. Ive taken this into account as part of my wider consideration of Miss Hs 
complaint that HSBC didnt actively manage her account or conduct 6 monthly reviews after 
shed set up her payment arrangement of £34.48 per month in February 2017.
Ive reviewed the information provided by HSBC. HSBC hasnt been able to explain why it 
didnt carry out a regular review with Miss H from 2017, but it has acknowledged that this 
was an error and has said that although Miss H didnt receive any contact, the debt was 
being managed and the payments made by Miss H were being noted. HSBC has apologised 
for any upset caused to Miss H as a result of the lack of communication.
Miss H has also said that she feels that HSBC failed to take account of her vulnerabilities. 
HSBC has said that it has applied its policies and procedures for vulnerable customers and 
has acknowledged that Miss H feels that she didnt receive the level of support she expected. Based on the information Ive seen, I cant be certain of when Miss H told HSBC 
about her vulnerabilities. However, I can see that HSBC took account of what Miss H told 
them about her background and current circumstances and in response to that it agreed to 
write off the debt. 
In circumstances like this, where the bank has acknowledged that it made some errors, I 
would expect HSBC to offer compensation. In this case, I can see that HSBC has written off 
a debt of more than £5500, which I think is more than I would have expected it to do. So, Im 
unbale to say that HSBC hasnt responded to this complaint fairly and offered to resolve it in 
a reasonable way.
On balance and taking all the aspects of Miss Hs complaint that Im able to look at into 
account, I think HSBC has resolved the complaint fairly and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman