DRN-2691545
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy One Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made on his car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr G had a car insurance policy with One Insurance. In 2017 he joined One Insurances 
Platinum Club which offers a policy with a three-year price fix and no cancellation fee. Each 
year One Insurance send him a reminder of the benefits he enjoys from the policy.
In November 2019, Mr G had an accident. He called One Insurance to make a claim, when 
he did so he was asked about his employment status and he said he was unemployed. 
Because of this One Insurance declined his claim and voided his policy. It said Mr G should 
have told it about a change in his circumstances and had he of done so, it wouldnt have 
offered him cover. Mr G complained but One Insurance did not change its position.
Our investigator looked at the case and thought it should be upheld. She said she didnt 
believe Mr Gs true position was that he was unemployed. Hed previously explained to One 
Insurance that he was semi-retired and as such, there wasnt a change in position for him to 
declare to One Insurance. She said One Insurance should reinstate Mr Gs policy and 
consider his claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. She said that any 
increase in premium could be deducted from any settlement payment.
One Insurance disagreed, it said it acted correctly based on what it was told. It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 2 March 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
One Insurance has said that Mr G failed to update it on a change in his circumstances and 
therefore it was entitled to decline his claim and avoid his policy. It has based this on the fact 
when Mr G registered the claim, he said he was unemployed.
So, what I need to decide is whether the action One Insurance took was fair. Having 
reviewed everything, I dont think Mr G misrepresented his circumstances, so I dont think 
One Insurance has acted fairly by declining his claim and avoiding the policy.
The relevant regulations say that for One Insurance to be able to avoid Mr Gs policy he 
needed to have failed to tell it something which led it into providing him with cover when it 
otherwise wouldnt have done. One Insurance has explained it doesnt offer cover if 
someone is unemployed.
Mr Gs policy was taken out in December 2017, its marketed as having a three-year price fix 
and no cancellation fees.
Mr G made changes to his policy in April 2018. He explained at the time, hed cashed in his 
private pension, sold his house and moved to a smaller property. So he was now mortgage 
free. When asked if he was retired, Mr G said that he was semi-retired. One Insurance 
accepted these changes and continued to insure Mr G.
In December 2018, One Insurance wrote to Mr G to remind him of the benefits his policy 
provides, however it wasnt a traditional renewal notice and it made clear the policy wasnt a 
traditional 12-month policy. There was a reminder on this letter that his price was based on 
the details Mr G provided and he should update One Insurance if anything changed.
When Mr G phoned to register the claim in November 2019, he apparently described himself 
as being unemployed. I havent been provided this call to listen to, so I dont know what 
discussion was held around this. However, I have been provided with the next call that was 
made when Mr G was told because he said he was unemployed, his claim wouldnt be met.
Having listened to this call, it was clear to me the advisers purpose for the call was simply to 
deliver the claim decline message due to him being unemployed. Despite anything Mr G 
said, she didnt question him further on his situation and appeared to be unaware of the 
previous changes on the policy. Having listened to the end of the call when she transferred 
the call to a manager, she appeared to find Mr Gs situation amusing.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Mr G misrepresented his position to One 
Insurance. Hed previously advised it he was semi-retired. One Insurance accepted this and 
continued to insure Mr G.
Mr G has explained his private pension was supplementing his income. However, around 
July 2019 he claimed government benefits as he was unable to find work and he required 
the benefit to supplement his private pension income. Mr G has explained he wasnt entitled 
to income from a state pension for another three years. One Insurance will be aware that 
some benefits are able to be claimed even if there is another income, they even allow work 
to take place up to a maximum number of hours a week. The purpose of the benefit is to 
provide a minimum level of income.
So, I dont think materially Mr Gs position had changed since April 2018 and as such there 
was nothing for him to update One Insurance on. Had the adviser asked further questions 
and been aware of previous changes to the policy, potentially this situation could have been 
avoided. Based on the information One Insurance has provided, it appears it did and would 
have insured Mr G if he was employed or retired and the fact it continued to insure him when 
he declared he was semi-retired, I think shows that One Insurance had no reasonable 
grounds to decline Mr Gs claim and avoid his policy.
Given what I have explained above, Im intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has explained he couldnt afford to repair his car and was told in July 2020 he could no 
longer store it where he lived. He therefore scrapped the car and received £175 for it. To put 
things right I think One Insurance should deal with Mr Gs claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
If the claim is found to be otherwise valid, as One Insurance through its own actions has now 
lost the opportunity to provide a repair estimate, it should pay the value of the car at the date 
of loss to Mr G. It can deduct the £175 he received as a salvage amount and any excess payable. One Insurance should add 8% simple interest per annum to the remaining amount 
calculated from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
I also think Mr G has been caused trouble and upset by how One Insurance dealt with his 
claim, so it should pay Mr G compensation of £200.
Responses to my provisional decision
One Insurance acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but did not provide any 
response to it within the timeframe set. 
Mr G responded saying he accepted the provisional decision. He raised some issues about 
documentation he had received from the broker of the policy. However, these matters have 
been dealt with under a separate reference at this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint against One Insurance. 
Reviewing again how the matter should be put right, I think it is important to mention that in 
cases like this I would normally expect the insurer to remove any record of the voidance from 
internal and external databases as a matter of course. 
I would hope One Insurance would do this naturally, however I will include this in my 
directions for clarity. Mr G has mentioned he is not driving at the moment however, this 
voidance should not impact his ability to get insurance in the future should he choose to do 
so. 
Putting things right
To put things right One Insurance should do the following:
Deal with Mr Gs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
If the claim is found to be otherwise valid, as One Insurance through its own actions 
has now lost the opportunity to provide a repair estimate, it should pay the value of 
the car at the date of loss to Mr G. It can deduct the £175 he received as a salvage 
amount and any excess payable. One Insurance should add 8% simple interest per 
annum to the remaining amount calculated from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr G compensation of £200.
Remove any record of the voidance from any internal and external databases.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against One Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to put things right in the way I have set out above.
If One Insurance Limited considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest it pays, it should tell Mr G how much it has taken off, and give 
Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman