DRN-1546422
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont allow him to open a basic bank account by 
post. Mr B wants HSBC to open an account for him.
What happened
Mr B wanted to open a basic bank account so he called HSBC and was told that he would 
have to visit a branch or download the forms online. The record of the call notes that Mr B 
was calling from prison. 
 
Mr B then wrote to HSBC and said he wanted to open a bank account by post as, being a 
prisoner, he didnt have access to the internet and couldnt visit a branch. He felt it was 
discriminatory to be told that he must go online to open an account. He explained he had 
held accounts with HSBC in the past and his address could be verified by a prison officer. 
He said that, given HSBC know who he is, they should open an account for him. 
 
HSBC responded to Mr Bs complaint and explained they understand Mr B is unable to visit 
a branch but they need to see identification and address verification in order to open an 
account. They explained they are aware there are ways of opening an account in Mr Bs 
circumstances but he would need to discuss this with the prison. 
HSBC notes say that, as per regulations, they cant reject an application for a basic bank 
account (unless for very specific things). The notes say they arent rejecting the application 
but theyre not willing to open an account without seeing Mr B in person. They noted they 
could potentially look at visiting Mr B in prison to arrange the account opening but they wont 
open an account without identification and visual checks on this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. HSBC explained to us that, in the case of new 
customers, an account couldnt be opened by post or by telephone. It can only be done 
online or by visiting a branch. Only an existing customer can apply for an account over the 
telephone. HSBC also explained that Mr B has never made an application, theyve only been 
advising him about the format of an application which they would consider acceptable. 
In relation to the note about visiting Mr B in prison, HSBC explained that the complaint 
handlers intention here was to say that prisons usually have a bank they specifically deal 
with and who will arrange for staff to visit to assist with opening a bank account. They 
explained in respect of the prison where Mr B is, it might not be HSBC. They explained this 
message was never communicated to Mr B but a note was put on the file to pass this 
message on if Mr B was to call back.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The Payment Account Regulations 2015 set out the circumstances in which a bank should 
open a basic bank account for a customer. HSBC's website says they'll offer a basic bank 
account if an application for another account isn't successful. And while I don't dispute this is 
a service HSBC offers, I don't agree that means HSBC has to offer Mr B a basic bank 
account. And that's because the webpage says a basic bank account will only be opened if 
the applicant is eligible. 
Its important to note first, Mr B hasnt made an application for a basic bank account so this 
isnt a consideration of HSBCs refusal of his application. Its an assessment of whether 
HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably in the advice theyve given to Mr B about how to 
apply for a basic bank account. 
Looking at the details on HSBCs website for who can apply, it appears that Mr B does meet 
this criteria. The website then goes on to show how customers can apply, and this sets out 
two options, an online application or booking an appointment in branch. This supports 
HSBCs advice to Mr B when they explained the way in which he needed to apply for a bank 
account. HSBC say this is the process for new customers so, given that Mr B feels HSBC 
knows who he is, I need to consider whether HSBC have acted fairly in applying the new 
customer process to him. 
 
I can see that HSBC wrote to Mr B in July 2019 to confirm they had opened a Premier 
Account for him. HSBC say this letter was sent in error. They explained that, following a 
telephone call, an agent tried to manually order a brochure for Mr B but instead sent a 
welcome pack. HSBC confirmed that no account was ever set up. HSBC have provided 
screenshots of their system which show that a brochure was requested. So, I accept that a 
Premier Account hadnt been opened for Mr B which means he wasnt an existing customer.
 
Mr B says that HSBC do know about him because he holds a Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPA) for his mother, who has an account with HSBC. He provided us with a bank statement 
for this account which has been addressed to him and his mother. I have seen the LPA 
which was registered in 2014 and appoints Mr B as attorney over his mothers property and 
financial affairs. Documents provided by HSBC show that the LPA was set up on the 
account in 2014. HSBC say they dont hold any ID documents for Mr B as they werent 
scanned to the file at the time.
 
A document headed Power of Attorney - New set up branch checklist contains a box which 
says Confirm ID&VA checked, this box has been ticked. So, I think ID documents for Mr B 
were checked at the time but a copy wasnt retained on file. While I agree that Mr B is 
named on the account through the LPA, Ive compared the LPA checklist with the process 
that HSBC follows when opening accounts for new customers and cant see that the 
requirements are very similar. So, I dont think HSBC have gone through the full verification 
checks they would ordinarily go through with a new customer. I would also add that HSBC 
have said that, in any event, given the passage of time since the LPA was set up on the 
account, they would require further ID. 
HSBC have provided a proof of identity document used to open accounts. This does set out 
a requirement for identification and verification documents. On this basis, I dont think its 
unreasonable for HSBC to apply the new customer process to check Mr Bs ID.
      Ive also considered HSBCs processes for Non face to face identification and setting up a 
Basic bank account and I cant see that HSBC have acted in a manner which is against 
their own procedures. The basic bank account process does say that customers can apply 
online, visit a branch or an application pack can be sent out. I note Mr B wants an application 
to be sent by post. So, our investigator queried this point with HSBC who say that it does 
appear to have been an error on their part to have not offered the application pack when this 
couldve been done. However, they say that Mr B would still have needed to visit a branch 
with the completed application pack. 
 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think HSBC have acted unfairly by advising Mr B of the 
options available to him to apply for a basic bank account. We cant tell HSBC what their 
policy and processes should be, but we can look at whether they have been applied fairly. 
Its understandable and important for banks to carry out sufficient ID checks so, in this case, 
I dont think HSBC have been unreasonable and they have applied their policies to Mr B in 
the same way I would expect them to apply to any other customer. It follows that I havent 
seen any evidence that HSBC have acted unfairly towards Mr B.  
I note Mr Bs comment about guidance issued by a private sector body whose role is to 
produce guidance to assist the financial industry. Mr B has referred to guidance which says 
that, in relation to prisoners, a letter from the governor of the prison is capable of evidencing 
identity. I can see the prison did send a letter to HSBC which confirmed Mr Bs nationality, 
date of birth and home address. This letter is from the Custodial Manager rather than the 
governor. But, in any event, I feel its important to add that the guidance produced is non-
mandatory and also says that it is open to firms to have additional verification requirements if 
they deem necessary under their risk-based approach. So, I dont think its unreasonable for 
HSBC to have their own checks in place in addition to the letter from prison. 
I appreciate Mr B wants to open a new account with HSBC for his personal reasons. But I've 
also had to take into consideration that HSBC isn't the only provider of basic bank accounts. 
And I've not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr B has unsuccessfully attempted to open a 
basic bank account with a number of other providers. This matter has been ongoing for 
some time now. So, I appreciate Mr B would be feeling very frustrated and concerned. But it 
also means he has had the opportunity to look for an account elsewhere. I note Mr B says 
there is an organisation in the prison which assists with opening a bank account albeit with 
another bank. This might provide a way forward for Mr B and I hope he is able to resolve the 
problem in this way.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman