The complaint
Mrs L complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited voided a named driver on her 
policy and refused to pay a claim she made on her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs L is represented by her son in this case, but for clarity Ill refer to all submissions as 
being made by her directly.  
What happened
Mrs Ls husband, Mr L, was a named driver on her motor policy and was involved in an 
accident. A claim was made on the policy which had been renewed in December 2017 and 
2018. When Admiral checked details of Mr Ls licence as part of their claims process, they 
found he had an MS90 conviction from February 2017 which had not been disclosed at 
renewal. An MS90 conviction is applied by the courts as a result of failing to provide the 
details of the driver at time of a motoring offence. Admiral said if theyd been aware of the 
conviction, they wouldnt have insured Mr L as a named driver. They voided Mr Ls cover 
and refused the claim.
Mrs L complained to Admiral. She said neither she or Mr L were aware of the conviction. 
They say Mr L had a brain operation and has since suffered from memory loss. She said 
theyd paid a £660 fine when approached by bailiffs and had attended court afterwards to 
find out what it was for, but they hadnt realised it had affected his licence.
Admiral looked into the complaint but stood by their decision to void Mr Ls cover and not to 
pay the claim. They said theyd asked clear questions at renewal and at the time of the claim 
regarding any motoring offences and had been told each time there were none. Theyd 
considered the non-disclosure of the conviction to be careless rather than reckless of 
deliberate (as defined by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)), which meant they were entitled to take the action they had. They allowed the 
policy to continue to cover Mrs L, but wouldnt cover Mr L. 
Mrs L was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and referred her concerns to us. One 
of our investigators looked into it. He said hed seen evidence from the underwriters that 
theyd not have insured Mr L had they been made aware of the MS90. He said that if the 
court hadnt made Mr L aware of the impact on his driving licence, he should contact them 
about that. But he felt Admiral had acted fairly in voiding Mr Ls cover from the policy. 
Admiral accepted our investigators opinion, but Mrs L didnt. She said Admiral should have 
checked their licences when she renewed the policy. Our investigator told her that its normal 
practice for insurers to check licences in the event of a claim. As there was no agreement, 
Mrs Ls complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
DRN-1305546What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so Ive taken into account the law and regulations as well as standard industry 
practice. The law I need to consider in this case is CIDRA, under which Mrs L had a 
responsibility to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And for Admiral to 
take any action, it needs to show that Mrs L didnt take reasonable care and that she made 
whats described as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out what needs to be considered to decide if a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is the questions the consumer was asked. 
In Mrs Ls case, she was asked at renewal and at the time of the claim whether she or Mr L 
had any motoring offences in the last five years, that would be fixed penalties, convictions, 
driving disqualifications or any pending convictions. Each time Admiral were told there were 
none. Based on what theyd been told, Admiral agreed to insure Mr and Mrs L. 
When the claim was made, Admiral carried out their usual checks and found that Mr L had 
received an MS90 conviction, six points on his licence and a £660 fine. When they spoke to 
Mrs L about this, she confirmed she had paid the fine for this motoring offence to the court 
bailiffs after Mr L had received a letter from them. But she said she hadnt understood the 
had been an impact on Mr Ls licence. 
In order to show that Mrs Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying one (as required by CIDRA) 
Admiral need to show it would either not have insured Mr L or that they would have insured 
him but on different terms. 
Admiral have provided evidence that they wouldnt have insured Mr L had they been aware 
of Mr Ls conviction. On that basis, I think Mrs L made a qualifying misrepresentation. I 
accept (as have Admiral) that she didnt do so deliberately, but under CIDRA, if a qualifying 
misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless, then its careless. 
While Admiral have accepted that Mrs L may not have known the offence appeared on 
Mr Ls licence. But theyve said that, as the policy holder, shes responsible for ensuring the 
information provided is correct. In view of this, they decided to regard the misrepresentation 
as careless, so voided just Mr Ls cover (as theyd not have insured him if theyd known) 
rather than the entire policy. I think its reasonable to say Mrs L made a careless 
misrepresentation. This means that Admiral can do what they would have done, had they 
been given the correct information. 
This means that Mr L wouldnt have been insured had Admiral have known about his 
conviction. So Admiral were entitled to cancel cover for Mr L. As Mr L wouldnt have been 
insured by Admiral if theyd been given the correct information, it follows that they wouldnt 
be responsible for paying any claim made under the policy while Mr L was driving. I think its 
reasonable that they have refused to pay the claim made after he was involved in an 
accident. They have however, paid the costs of the third party involved in the accident, and 
continued to insure Mrs L, so I wouldnt expect Admiral to refund any premiums charged for 
insuring Mr L. 
Mrs L has admitted she paid a fine to the courts on behalf of her husband. I understand Mr 
and Mrs L have since questioned the conviction with the courts, but the decision was 
unchanged. Mrs L has said Admiral shouldve checked their licences at renewal which would have 
avoided any potential misrepresentation. But I wouldnt expect Admiral to check their 
customers licences at renewal every time, as to do so would be time consuming and costly. 
Instead, they ask clear questions of customers and rely on the answers theyre given. I think 
thats reasonable and in line with standard industry practice.
Overall, while I acknowledge Mr and Mrs L have found themselves in a difficult position, I 
dont think Admiral have treated them unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Richard Hale
Ombudsman