DRN-3392860
The complaint
Mr L complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act in respect of a faulty bath panel.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The debtor-creditor-supplier link remains unbroken so it falls to me to decide if there was 
either misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Mr L has raised a number of concerns about the installation of new bathroom fittings, but all 
but one of these have been considered in a previous complaint and I am only addressing the 
matter of a broken bath panel.
The bathroom was fitted in 2018 and shortly afterwards Mr L raised a complaint about a 
number of issues, but not the panel. He complained about that in May 2019. I have seen the 
photograph of the damage and it is clear and obvious. That causes me to wonder why the 
fault wasnt reported earlier. For me to uphold the complaint I have to be satisfied that the 
damage happened when the panel was installed and I have no evidence to support that.
I accept that Mr L has said it was damaged by the fitters, but in order for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint I need additional evidence to support that claim. There is damage, but I 
cannot say what caused it. As such, I am unable to conclude that Omni can be held 
responsible under section 75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman