DRN-2375051
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Y are unhappy with the way theyve been treated by Progressive Building 
Society (PBS). They say that PBS shouldve done more to make sure they were aware they 
could be paying less interest and that theyve lost our due to PBS inaction. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr Y first took out a mortgage with PBS in 2004. It was a two year discounted rate 
mortgage, which would revert to the standard variable rate (SVR) at the end of the 
discounted period. 
PBS contacted Mrs and Mr Y in 2006 before the end of the discount rate period and another 
discounted rate mortgage was taken, with the discount rate again running for two years.
In 2008 before the end of the latest discount rate period, PBS received an enquiry from a 
financial adviser on behalf of Mrs and Mr Y in terms of the rates available upon expiry of the 
current deal. Following this, Mrs and Mr Y entered into another discounted rate deal, running 
for a further two years. The discounted rate expired in October 2010.
Mrs and Mr Y then paid the SVR from that point up until 2017 when, following a review with 
a financial adviser, they moved onto a deal where they were paying less interest than the 
SVR. 
In 2019, Mrs and Mr Y complained to PBS. They said, in summary, that:
- They felt annoyed that, as they saw it, they had been overcharged during the period 
they were paying the SVR. They hadnt taken action as they were both extremely 
busy working full time and raising children.
- When their latest deal had come to an end, theyd received a phone call to review 
their mortgage options and were told it was standard practice for this to happen. This 
hadnt happened after they took the discount rate deal in 2008 and so they felt PBS 
hadnt treated them fairly and that theyd lost out as a result. 
PBS didnt uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that:
- It had sent a letter to Mrs and Mr Y before the end of the discount period in 2010, 
reminding them the rate was due to expire and detailing the new increased monthly 
payment. The letter invited contact to explore the options for moving onto another 
deal. 
- The subsequent mortgage statements sent to Mrs and Mr Y set out details of the 
interest rate applicable to the mortgage.
- Some customers prefer to stay on an SVR for a number of reasons.
- Mrs and Mr Y would, through their profession, be familiar with mortgage transactions 
and the ability to move their mortgage to another lender or arrange a new deal with 
their existing lender. Following contact from PBS, Mrs and Mr Y had arranged a 
product switch on two previous occasions.
Mrs and Mr Y remained unhappy and referred their concerns to this service. They said, in 
summary, that:
- They werent sure what PBS was referring to when it mentioned their professions. 
Neither of them had any expertise in property transactions or financial advice. 
- A hard copy of the Financial Ombudsman Services leaflet hadnt been enclosed with 
PBS final response letter.
- They hadnt received the letter dated 14 September 2010. Every time they had 
received such correspondence, theyd taken action. The fact they didnt take action 
shows the letter wasnt received. 
- There were no further attempts to alert them to the continuing excessive high 
repayments being made. The mortgage statements didnt give any warning or 
suggestion that better rates were available. 
Our investigator looked into things and came to the conclusion that PBS hadnt acted 
unfairly. He said, in summary, that:
- PBS is required to treat its customers fairly. But there are no specific requirements 
set out in the regulators rules that mean lenders need to proactively contact 
borrowers when better interest rates may become available. 
- PBS was required to inform Mrs and Mr Y of the interest rate they were paying and 
what this meant for their monthly payments. PBS had done this by sending annual 
mortgage statements.
- PBS wrote to Mrs and Mr Y in 2010, to inform them their discounted rate period was 
coming to an end. He was satisfied that PBS had done enough to make Mrs and 
            Mr Y aware they could apply for a new discounted rate if they wanted to. 
- He didnt think PBS had treated Mrs and Mr Y unfairly due to their loyalty. When Mrs 
and Mr Y agreed to the discounted rate in 2008, they had agreed to pay the SVR 
after the end of the discount period until such time as the mortgage was repaid or 
any other mortgage terms were agreed.
- He could understand why Mrs and Mr Y were alarmed and upset that they could 
potentially have been paying less interest over the years. But he didnt think it was 
PBS fault that they had.
Mrs and Mr Y didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for their case to be 
escalated to an ombudsman. They re-iterated that they hadnt received the letter from PBS 
in 2010. And that PBS had told them in 2019 that it was standard practice to telephone 
customers before a mortgage deal comes to an end (which they said hadnt happened at 
any point before 2019). They also didnt accept the sending of annual statements meant that PBS had done what it 
should have. Its published ethos is to act for the benefit of its members and not to achieve 
profits at all costs. They didnt think theyd been treated fairly on this basis.
The investigator asked PBS for its comments on what Mrs and Mr Y said they were told in 
2019 about telephone contact being their standard practice. PBS said in response that it was 
not its normal policy to telephone borrowers by phone at the end of their rate deal. Rather, 
normal practice is to send a letter confirming details of the rate coming to an end and what 
that means for payments going forwards.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs and Mr Y, but hope that my 
explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My decision is focused on what I consider to be of most relevance to the outcome of the 
case. If I havent included something mentioned by one of the parties, it doesnt mean I 
havent taken it into account. 
I can understand why Mrs and Mr Y are unhappy. If, instead of paying the SVR from when 
the discount rate expired in 2010 up until 2017 they had moved on to some kind of rate deal 
 with PBS or another lender - they may well have paid less interest than they have.  
The question is whether and to what extent PBS has caused Mrs and Mr Y any loss. 
As the investigator said, PBS was required to treat Mrs and Mr Y fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether it did this.
PBS obligations as a lender were, in essence, to provide clear information to Mrs and Mr Y 
about the mortgages they were taking out. And to give them notice of any interest rate 
changes and the associated impact on the monthly repayment amounts. 
PBS says is sent Mrs and Mr Y a letter in September 2010, setting out that the current 
interest rate deal was due to come to an end and what this meant for the monthly repayment 
amount. The letter invites contact to discuss the possibility of Mrs and Mr Y moving on to 
another interest rate deal. 
Mrs and Mr Y say they didnt receive this letter. They say the fact they always took action 
upon receipt of such a letter demonstrates they didnt get it. And that, if they had received it, 
they wouldve taken action. Theyve also said that PBS not enclosing the ombudsman leaflet 
with the final response letter, lends weight to their argument, as this shows PBS can make 
errors.
PBS has provided us with a copy of this letter. It is correctly addressed. I accept its possible 
the letter wasnt sent. But its also possible the letter was sent and not received. Or that it 
was sent and received, but Mrs and Mr Y cannot remember  some ten years later  
receiving it. I appreciate Mrs and Mr Y say that, if they had received the letter, they wouldve 
taken some action. However, its also possible they didnt appreciate the importance of the 
letter at the time or had other priorities.Overall, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest its likely the letter wasnt sent. 
I must also take into account that when Mrs and Mr Y entered into the discount rate period in 
2008, the Key Facts Document set out how long the discounted rate applied for and that the 
interest rate would revert to the standard variable rate after the two years. So Mrs and Mr Y 
would reasonably have been aware at that point of how long the discount rate would last for 
and what would happen after that point. 
They also by that point had experience of having taken out discount rate deals in the past  
having entered into new deals in both 2004 and 2006.  And upon expiry of the discounted 
rates, they had successfully entered into new deals.  
Mrs and Mr Y have also said they dont think the annual mortgage statements were 
adequate in alerting them to the fact that they could potentially be on a better deal. However, 
PBS has never been required to proactively contact Mrs and Mr Y or alert them to potentially 
better deals, in the way in which Mrs and Mr Y say it should have done. It could have made 
such contact. But it wasnt required to do so.
At the same time, Mrs and Mr Y were free to explore other mortgage rate options with PBS 
and other lenders. I cannot reasonably say that PBS ought to compensate Mrs and Mr Y, 
because they didnt do this. 
Mrs and Mr Y say they were particularly concerned following a telephone conversation with 
PBS in 2019. They say they were told by PBS agent that it was standard practice to contact 
borrowers by phone before the end of the interest rate deal period, to discuss moving onto 
another rate. And that this hadnt happened at any point before 2019.
PBS has since clarified that it has never been standard practice to telephone ahead of a rate 
expiring. Instead, the standard practice has been to contact borrowers in writing. 
Im unsure why Mrs and Mr Y got the impression they did that YBS had said telephoning 
borrowers was standard practice. Its possible they were given incorrect information by the 
agent during the phone call or that there was some kind of misunderstanding. 
But regardless, PBS has never been obliged to make such contact and so it doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Finally, Im unsure why PBS referred to Mrs and Mr Ys profession when responding to the 
complaint. Mrs and Mr Y may well be correct in saying that their profession was irrelevant. 
However, I dont need to explore this any further, because it doesnt affect the outcome of 
the complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr Y feel strongly that PBS has treated them unfairly and not in 
line with its stated ethos. However, in conclusion, I dont think PBS has done anything wrong 
or treated Mrs and Mr Y unfairly. 
So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman