DRN-4073013
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited didnt pay out the full amount of 
benefit on an unemployment claim he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr T arranged the policy in 2007 to cover him for a benefit amount of £1,000 per month. 
However, after making a claim in 2021, Fairmead told him that he was over-insured. It paid 
his claim for the full 12 months available under the policy but only for £234 per month. 
Fairmead also made a part-refund of premiums for the period September 2020 to December 
2021 to compensate him for an over-payment of premiums. It also said that it would consider 
a further refund of premiums if Mr T provided evidence of his mortgage repayments prior to 
September 2020. Fairmead also paid Mr T £75 compensation for delay in responding to his 
complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that Fairmead had assessed the claim correctly, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. He also thought the refund of premiums and the payment of £75 
was fair and reasonable. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms state that the maximum benefit payable in the event of a claim is:
your mortgage payment, mortgage related insurance premiums and an additional amount to 
meet utility bills and Council Tax. The additional benefit for utility bills and Council Tax must 
not exceed 25% of your combined monthly mortgage payment and mortgage related 
insurance premiums.
When Mr T first set the policy up, the benefit amount of £1,000 would have been acceptable 
because it would have been within the parameters set out above. However, about four years 
prior to claiming, Mr T had changed his mortgage to an interest only mortgage, leading to 
reduced monthly payments. Fairmead therefore arrived at a figure of £234 as the maximum 
available benefit, that being a sum of his average mortgage repayments and premiums, plus 
an additional 25% on top. 
Mr T says the policy wording is unclear and that the claims administrator agreed with him. 
Looking at the wording, Im satisfied that it sets out the maximum available benefit 
sufficiently clearly. But it was reasonable for the claims administrator to seek clarification 
from the underwriter in response to Mr Ts query.
He says he cant see any reference that payment will be limited to previous monthly 
mortgage payments. But Im satisfied that in determining your mortgage payment, it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to look at what Mr T had actually been paying towards his 
mortgage in the period leading up to his claim.
Mr T says the purpose of the policy is to provide financial assistance when someone gets 
made redundant. But its a mortgage payment protection policy. Therefore, the financial 
assistance is specifically related to helping someone carry on paying their mortgage when 
they are without work. As such, the available benefit amount has to bear some relationship 
to the actual mortgage repayments.
Mr T says that his underlying mortgage hasnt changed and he still owes a capital amount of 
£141,000. He says that if he was paying the repayments amounts to pay off the balance 
within the remaining term, rather than interest only, his monthly payments would be 
considerably more and therefore he is not over-insured. But in assessing the claim for cover 
for his mortgage, Fairmead has looked at what he had actually been paying over the period 
leading up to the claim, which is reasonable. I dont think Fairmead needed to consider what 
Mr T might like to pay or what he might need to pay in the future.
As far as Im aware, the figure of £234 doesnt include an amount for mortgage related 
insurance apart from the PPI premiums. Fairmead asked Mr T on two occasions to provide 
evidence of any mortgage related insurance. Although he mentioned amounts he was 
paying for life insurance and household/buildings cover, I cant see that he provided any 
evidence of that. 
So I think Fairmead acted reasonably in paying a benefit amount of £234 per month based 
on the evidence provided by Mr T at the time. However, if Mr T now cares to provide 
evidence of any additional insurance costs, Fairmead should look at that to re-calculate the 
claim amount. 
Mr T has said that, although he received a part refund of premiums up to December 2021, 
he continued to be charged the original premium of £43.73 from January 2022 until he 
cancelled the policy in March 2023, which makes no sense to him. Fairmead was able to 
determine the premium amounts for the period September 2020 to December 2021 based 
on the evidence provided by Mr T. But it would be difficult for Fairmead to determine what 
the premiums should have been going forward because Mr T had indicated that he might be 
planning to start paying considerably more off the mortgage to reduce the outstanding 
capital over the remaining term. Fairmead has already offered to look at the possibility of an 
additional refund of premiums prior to September 2020 if Mr T provides proof of his actual 
mortgage repayments. So I would expect Fairmead to do the same in regard to the period 
from January 2022.
I think that Fairmead dealt with Mr Ts claim correctly, in line with the policy terms and based 
on the information provided by Mr T. I also think it acted reasonably in providing a refund of 
premiums for the known period that he was over-insured. Additionally, I think that Fairmead 
dealt with Mr Ts complaint reasonably and that the offer of £75 for delay is fair. It follows 
that I am not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.However, Mr T may wish to consider providing additional evidence to allow Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to reconsider the benefit amount for the claim and any further refund of 
premiums.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman