DRN-1394080
 
Complaint
Mr I complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC should not have re-debited his account with the 
amount of a chargeback after his account had been switched to another bank.
Background
Mr I had a current account with Barclays. He used his debit card to purchase a car. Just over 
3 months later he contacted Barclays and informed it that the car was dangerous and 
unroadworthy and asked Barclays if he had any protections. Barclays processed a 
chargeback on his account under the VISA Chargeback Scheme. The chargeback was 
credited to his account. Shortly after this Mr I switched his Barclays account to another bank 
using the Current Account Switch Service.
Several weeks later Mr I received a text message from Barclays. When he contacted 
Barclays it told him that it had re-debited his account with the amount of the chargeback 
because the merchant had raised a dispute. It said that it had written to Mr I asking him to 
respond to the dispute but when he didnt reply it had re-debited the account.
Mr I says that he didnt receive any correspondence from Barclays about the dispute. Hed 
changed address at the same time as he switched his account. He says that Barclays 
shouldnt ask him to repay this money because it didnt follow the correct process. And, he 
says that Barclays had no right to debit an account after it had been closed and switched to 
another bank. He says that Barclays actions have affected his physical and mental health. 
He complained to Barclays about these matters.
Barclays investigated his complaint. It said that when he contacted it hed been told that he 
would be sent further documentation. Hed also confirmed his address during that call and 
had never informed Barclays of any change of address. It also said that when he didnt reply 
to the request for further information it had no option other than to debit his account with the 
amount of the chargeback. In these circumstances Mr I was still responsible for repaying the 
full amount of the chargeback. But, Barclays did acknowledge that it shouldve been made 
clearer to Mr I that the credit to his account was temporary and because it hadnt done that it 
offered to pay him £200 by way of compensation. 
Mr I wasnt satisfied with the response from Barclays and so he complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that he was satisfied Barclays had 
correctly raised the chargeback. He said that Mr I had been told that Barclays would write to 
him with further information. But, because Mr I hadnt told Barclays about his change of 
address, it wasnt responsible for the fact that he didnt receive its letter requesting further 
information. He agreed that Barclays shouldve explained to Mr I that the credit to his 
account was temporary but he thought that £200 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
this error.
Mr I disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
Its important at the outset to explain that the Chargeback Scheme is a voluntary code  its 
not a right and its not guaranteed to recover the money. But, as our investigator has said 
Barclays was right to raise a claim under the Chargeback Scheme in the circumstances that 
Mr I had described to it. Thats what wed expect it to have done.
Ive listened carefully to the call where Mr I asked Barclays what protection he had in relation 
to the debit card payment hed made when he purchased the car. Barclays asked Mr I for the 
information that it needed to raise the claim. It also told him that the claim had been 
successfully submitted and gave him the claim reference number. It didnt mention anything 
about crediting his account. It did tell him that it would send him a letter with further 
information and it would aim to contact him within 14 days to tell him how matters were 
progressing. 
During the call Mr I was asked to confirm his address. He confirmed the address which was 
the same as the address Barclays held on his records. So, Im satisfied that Mr I was told 
that Barclays would be writing to him at this address with further information and that the 
chargeback process hadnt been finalised at this point.
Mr I says that after he switched his account he wouldnt have expected to receive anything 
from Barclays and that was why he didnt update it when he changed his address. But, Ive 
noted that Barclays wrote to Mr I requesting further information about the chargeback claim 
a few days before his account was switched. It also wrote to him shortly afterwards to 
confirm that the switch of his current account had been completed. So, I dont agree with Mr 
I when he says that Barclays wrote to him after hed switched his account. Until the account 
switch had been completed I think that it was reasonable for Barclays to expect Mr I to 
inform it if his address changed. 
Ive also considered what Mr I has said about Barclays actions when it re-debited an account 
which he says was closed. I can see that when Mr I switched his account, Barclays informed 
him that there was still a small balance that he owed it and which hadnt been cleared by his 
new bank. So, there was still an outstanding amount owed to Barclays even after the switch 
had been completed. 
But, even if that hadnt been the case this doesnt mean Barclays shouldnt seek to recover 
the money from the chargeback from him. When Mr I didnt respond to the request for 
information Barclays had to return the money to the merchant under the Chargeback 
Scheme. When it did that it applied the debit to an account in Mr Is name. So, I dont agree 
with Mr I when he says that Barclays acted fraudulently when it debited his account or that it 
has stolen this money from him.
I can see that Barclays has acknowledged that it couldve made it clearer to Mr I when he 
contacted it that the credit to his account was temporary. If this had happened Mr I wouldve 
been clearer, following the phone call, that the money could be taken out of his account 
again. I can see that Barclays has offered Mr I £200 by way of compensation for this 
omission. I think thats fair and reasonable. But, I dont expect it to have to write off the 
amount of the chargeback which Im satisfied Barclays is entitled to ask Mr I to repay.
Mr I says Barclays actions have been causing him physical and mental health problems. 
Hes mentioned calls and correspondence hes received from Barclays. I understand Mr I is upset by this, but I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly here, where its entitled to ask him 
to repay what he owes. Barclays isnt obliged to put things on hold whilst this matter is with 
us either. I can see that Barclays has asked Mr I to contact it to discuss repayment of the 
outstanding amount. I expect Barclays to treat Mr I positively and sympathetically when 
discussing this situation with him. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman