DRN-3884816
The complaint
Mr S complains about Covea Insurance Plcs (Covea) decision to decline cover for his pet 
insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr S has pet insurance for his dog, who Ill refer to as N, with Covea which began in 
February 2018. 
In April 2021 N was diagnosed with Dermatitis. Mr S asked his insurer if it would cover the 
cost of the Apoquel, the medication required to treat the condition. 
Mr S says Covea initially agreed the treatment was covered by the policy and so he began 
submitting the claims. 
In July Mr S submitted a further claim for Apoquel. Covea asked Mr Ss vet to provide details 
of all new claims including three years medical history. Mr S says he then received an email 
from Covea in August 2022 declining the claim due to N having a history of skin issues. 
Since the condition was pre-existing Covea said it was unable to consider it under the policy.
 
Mr S wasnt happy since he had checked with Covea to see if the treatment was covered 
under the policy and it confirmed it was. Covea initially told him pre-existing conditions 
werent covered by the policy but when he queried this he was told the terms of the policy 
had changed since renewal in 2022. 
Mr S says the vet noted an issue with N in 2017 but he was told to monitor things; there 
were no further incidents until 2021, and there was no formal diagnosis. So he doesnt think 
its fair for Covea to decline his claim. Mr S complained. 
Covea said it had reviewed the clinical history and noted N had ongoing skin issues which 
the vet suspected was allergy related in November 2017. Covea said it would not be unable 
to consider any condition which have been present prior to the inception of cover. Covea 
said the treatment being claimed for pre-dates the inception of the policy and so the claim 
was declined. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response from Covea and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said it was clear the dog had 
symptoms of an allergy in 2017 prior to the policy being taken out. She said Covea had 
adhered to the terms and conditions of the policy in declining the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point is Mr Ss pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions of the 
cover. And under the heading, What we will not pay it says, The cost of any treatment for a 
pre-existing condition. The policy defines a pre-existing condition as follows;
oAn injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets 
cover started, or 
oAn injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as 
an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
oAn injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, 
illness or clinical sin your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the injury, 
illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body. This is an 
addition to any exclusions stated on your certificate of insurance.
The claim form submitted to Covea describes Mr Ss dogs condition as allergic skin disease.
Initially Mr Ss claim was accepted and the claim was paid. When Mr S made a claim for the 
medication subsequently it was declined. So Ive looked into whether Coveas decision is fair 
and reasonable. 
In order to consider this complaint Ive taken into account what the clinical notes show and 
the opinion of the experts. 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the utmost 
care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is therefore reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and accurate representation of 
what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. The clinical notes are a 
contemporaneous account of Mr Ss dogs clinical history. 
Ive looked at the clinical notes and there is an entry on 6 January 2017 which says, [Mr Ss 
dog] also has some low-grade ear pruritis (but no obvious infection) and tends to lick/chew 
her feet. This is now shaping up to be an allergy problem which will need investigating with 
allergen testing etc. 
On 7 March 2017 the notes say, Ears now settled. Still likely to have allergic dermatitis but 
monitor over time and build up profile. It also notes, owners changed insurers since last in 
so unlikely to be covered for allergic dermatitis. 
Mr Ss policy began in February 2018. Because Covea dont cover pre-existing conditions it 
asked Mr S if his dog had any such conditions. Mr S answered no. Had Mr S answered yes 
he would have seen a message which said the following, please be aware that any pre-
existing conditions will not be covered under your policy. This means that if your pet has, or 
has had, any illnesses or injuries, or is showing signs of an illness or injury when you 
purchase this policy, these conditions will not be covered.
I can see from the vets notes that Mr S attended the vet in January 2017, and again in 
March 2017 regarding an issue with the dogs ears. I am satisfied Mr S noticed the issue 
with his pets ears as per the terms of the policy before the start date and didnt tell Covea 
about this at inception, or renewal.
I can see Covea confirmed it would fund Ns treatment under the terms of the policy in its 
email in April 2021. But I think that decision was based on the information it had at the time. 
When it obtained further detail regarding Ns clinical history it noted the dogs symptoms 
began before the policy started. I can see Mr S feels very strongly that the insurer should pay for the treatment of the 
condition because it had already said it would do so; and he specifically checked this. When 
looking at complaints such as these I look at the terms and conditions of the policy as 
agreed at the time the policy was taken out, and whether the application of the terms was 
fair in the circumstances. The policy is clear on how it defines pre-existing conditions. I am 
sympathetic to the situation Mr S now finds himself in. But that doesnt mean the terms of the 
insurance policy dont apply. 
Mr S refers to the insurer having a duty to ensure the product was fit for purpose once the 
underwriting insurer had changed. But the policy was purchased online and at each renewal 
it is for Mr S to ensure the policy suits his needs and the information he provides is accurate. 
The terms of the policy are typical to those in other pet insurance policies. I dont consider 
the pre-existing term unfair. And Mr S would have had the opportunity to review the terms 
prior to renewing the policy. 
The issue here is whether N was presenting with clinical signs on a condition affecting his 
skin prior to the inception of the policy. And based on what Ive seen I think he was.
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied Covea acted fairly in not meeting the claim 
for the treatment of the condition. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint against Covea Insurance 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman