DRN-2705365
The complaint
This complaints about a consolidation re-mortgage Ms C took out in 2005 on advice given 
by a representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). Ms C, who has 
third party representation, believes it was mis-sold.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Ms C 
being identified. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current situation in my own words and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint; he wasnt persuaded the 
mortgage overall had been unsuitable for Ms Cs circumstances as recorded at the time. 
The case has come to me for review, chiefly because Ms Cs representative has said it 
disagrees with the investigators findings; albeit it has not provided any details as to why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
Consolidation of unsecured consumer debt
Advising people to re-mortgage to consolidate existing debt isnt inherently unsuitable. It all 
depends on the grounds given for the argument that the advice was unsuitable, and the 
individuals circumstances and objectives at the time the advice was given. Hindsight cant 
be a factor here.
The main argument against consolidating credit card and loan debts into a mortgage are that 
the debts becomes secured, and are repaid over a longer period. So, even if the mortgage is 
on a lower rate, its likely the overall interest cost will be higher in the long term. The main 
argument in favour of consolidation is that it frees up cashflow in the consumers monthly 
budget. The balancing factor tends to be the extent to which there is a need for improved 
cashflow, and so it proves here.
Ms Cs representative drew attention (unfavourably) to the fact that one the consolidated 
debts  a credit card  was on a 0% interest rate. L&G makes the point that was, in all 
likelihood a short-term introductory offer, an observation Ms Cs representative was invited to 
counter with evidence, but was unable to do so. On balance I think it highly likely that within 
a matter of months, Ms C would have been paying a double figures interest rate on that 
credit card.
Im satisfied that L&Gs advisor drew Ms Cs attention to the downsides of consolidation, 
which I detailed a moment ago, allowing her to make an informed decision that, for her, at 
that time, the benefits generally outweighed the disadvantages. 
Capital raising
The re-mortqage involved Ms C raising new debt of around £19,000. Her representative 
says this was unnecessary, but the application form indicates that Ms C had plans to install a 
conservatory. L&G says thats what the extra money was for. Its possible that after the 
mortgage had gone through, Ms C subsequently changed her mind about what shed do with 
the money, or maybe she did indeed have the conservatory built. 
The point is moot either way; L&Gs duty was to give suitable advice about how to raise 
money to pay for a conservatory, which Im satisfied it did. L&G couldnt insist Ms C follow 
every aspect of the advice it had given her. Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers 
behaviour after the sale to ensure she did what shed said she was going to do.
The legal administration fee
This is a subject weve looked at before. In 2014, a fellow ombudsman concluded that the 
fee was legitimate, in that it covered the costs of the brokers liaison with the conveyancing 
solicitor. In 2020, another ombudsman colleague reviewing a separate case concluded that 
whilst the fee was legitimate, he wasnt satisfied from the available evidence that it been 
properly disclosed to the consumers.
Our final decisions dont form binding precedents; but we do aim to be consistent when 
deciding different cases on similar fact, so its sensible and prudent that I consider them in 
the context of the case Im deciding here. 
Those two decisions dont contradict each other; they determine different things. One 
decided that the legal administration fee was legitimate, and Ive reached the same 
conclusion here. The other decided that the consumers hadnt been properly informed about 
the legal administration fee, and Ive reached a different conclusion here. Thats because I 
have sight of a Solicitors Form of Authorisation signed by Ms C on 27 June 2005 putting her 
on notice of, and obtaining her agreement to, the fee being incurred. Other matters
In its main complaint letter on Ms Cs behalf, her representative describes L&G as a 
commercial business who werent altruistic. Im not sure that comes as news to anyone, 
but from the associated comments, its clear that the inference Im being invited to draw is 
that L&Gs objectives didnt coincide with Ms Cs. 
But L&G didnt need to share Ms Cs objectives; it simply had a duty to advise her on the 
best way of achieving them; and I dont think its been shown that L&G failed to do that. In 
any event, Im not sure how helpful those descriptions are to Ms Cs case, as it could equally 
be argued this applied to her representative, given it too is a non-altruistic commercial 
business.
My final decision
dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman