DRN-1959085
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr J says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr J took out on a store card account in August 1999. It 
was added to his account when he applied for the card in store.
Mr J says AXA mis-sold the policy to him. He says he was told by the store that he had to 
take out PPI in order to be accepted for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr J says the store told him he must have PPI to get the credit. But I think AXA made Mr J 
aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. This 
shows there was a separate section for PPI. This separate section is signed by Mr J. He then 
signed the application form to say he consented to the information contained in it. So, I think 
this reflected what he wanted. Had Mr J not wanted the PPI he could have completed the 
application without signing the separate section for PPI.
So, on balance, I think Mr J was aware the policy was optional, and he agreed to take it out, 
knowing it was something he could say no to.
This application was made by Mr J completing an application in a store. So, because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So, AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for him. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mr J enough information to 
make an informed choice whether the policy was right for him, taking into account his 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So, I need to consider if Mr J would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led him to act differently.
Mr J has told us he had more than 12 months sick pay cover and savings of more than 12 
months of his wages too. As this is a very high amount of sick pay cover and not something 
that we see very often, our adjudicator contacted Mr J to ask for his recollections about this 
and also ask for more details about his savings. But Mr J has been unable to provide further 
details or clarify what he can remember about what he held at the time of sale. So, as I cant 
be sure what Mr J held at the time, I think the PPI could have been useful to him in that his 
store card payments would be met. It also would have provided additional cover if Mr J was 
unable to work. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting terms that would have affected 
Mr Js decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mr Js decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Js comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman