DRN-2744670
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a decreasing term assurance policy by Thinc Group 
Limited (Thinc).
What happened
Mr A met with an adviser from Thinc on 18 November 2009 to discuss his protection needs 
for his mortgage. During the meeting a fact-find was completed. It was recorded that Mr A 
had a repayment mortgage with a balance of £45,000 and a remaining term of 20 years. It 
was also noted that Mr A already had £25,000 of critical illness cover, and some death in 
service protection. Mr A was single with no dependants and his goal was recorded as 
wanting to ensure his mortgage was paid off in the event of his death.
Thinc recommended Mr A take out a term assurance policy on a decreasing term basis with 
critical illness cover for the term of 20 years. This was designed to provide a lump sum to 
cover Mr As mortgage in the event of his death. The policy came at a cost of £21.37 per 
month and started at £45,000 worth of cover. 
On 26 November 2009 Mr A had a meeting with his mortgage provider. He completed a form 
and selected no to taking out critical illness or life protection for the mortgage.
On 12 December 2009 Thinc sent Mr A its financial report and a quotation outlining the 
recommended policy. This had instructions to return his signed authority so that the policy 
provider could set up the policy.
Recently Mr A complained. He felt he didnt take out the policy and had given explicit 
instructions that it wasnt wanted. Thinc didnt agree, it said their documentation showed    
Mr A did take out the policy. It felt the product was suitable for the circumstances hed 
disclosed to them. Mr A referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They didnt think the advice was unsuitable 
for his recorded circumstances. They also didnt think the fact-find later completed with his 
mortgage provider meant Mr A had no intention of taking out the policy already 
recommended by Thinc. Although the policy didnt match the mortgage term or amount, our 
investigator felt this was due to the information most likely provided by Mr A and so it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Thinc responsible.
Mr A disagreed. He felt the product wasnt right for the mortgage he held. He provided a 
mortgage offer showing the mortgage was for an amount of £30,000 over ten years. As the 
evidence provided by Thinc was unsigned Mr A felt it shouldnt be considered, and that his 
signed submission saying no to protection with his mortgage provider was more persuasive. 
Mr A insisted he didnt recall having any meetings about protection needs other than with his 
mortgage provider. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr A agree to take out the policy
Mr A feels strongly that he never agreed to take out the policy and doesnt recall a meeting 
ever taking place with an adviser from Thinc. Ive thought about this carefully in view of the 
documentation available.
Im satisfied the meeting did take place. I say this because Thinc has been able to provide a 
full fact-find showing Mr A had an in-depth discussion about his protection needs and his 
wish to cover his mortgage. The fact-find contains personal details about Mr As 
circumstances and family which only he wouldve been able to provide Thinc at the time.    
Mr A was then sent a copy of this recommendation to his address asking for his signature  
as the policy would be set up by the provider when his signed forms were returned. 
Due to the passage of time a signed copy hasnt been able to be provided by Thinc, and the 
policy provider hasnt responded to our requests for further documentation. Ive thought 
carefully about what this means for Mr As complaint. Im satisfied Mr A most likely did agree 
to take out the policy. As its most likely Mr A returned the forms because the policy provider 
wouldnt have been able to set up the policy without Mr As explicit permission and payment.
Mr A has provided documentation showing he told his mortgage provider he didnt want any 
mortgage protection. This form does persuade me that Mr A had no interest in taking out a 
policy with his mortgage adviser. But as hed already discussed his protection needs with 
Thinc prior to the meeting where he completed this form, I think his rejection of cover with his 
mortgage adviser suggests he was already satisfied hed discussed and secured his 
protection needs with Thinc.
Mr A only recalls speaking with his mortgage provider about his protection needs. I dont 
doubt Mr A has no recollection of his meeting with Thincs adviser  and this is 
understandable given it was some time ago. But Im satisfied this meeting did take place, 
and that Mr A most likely did take out this policy, as the forms completed at the time suggest.
Incorrect term and amount of cover
Mr A has also provided a copy of his mortgage offer which shows the policy taken out didnt 
match the balance or term of his mortgage. This in isolation would be an indication that the 
policy wasnt suitable for Mr As needs. But Thinc were not Mr As mortgage provider and 
wouldve had to rely on the details Mr A disclosed to them. Id expect Thinc to have made 
reasonable efforts to gather the appropriate information in order to make a recommendation. 
But Id also expect them to take Mr As information on face value unless it had reason to 
think differently. If the policy was unsuitable solely because of incorrect information Mr A 
provided, it wouldnt be fair to hold Thinc responsible.
I cant say with certainty why the mortgage amount and term were incorrectly recorded on 
the fact-find, but Im satisfied these were details Thinc wouldve taken directly from Mr A. I 
say this because all other personal details on the fact-find were submitted by Mr A  and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mr A has disputed the accuracy of any of the other information 
disclosed on this form either at the time or after. Some of these details were personal 
information which only Mr A wouldve been able to provide Thinc. 
Mr A was also provided with the opportunity to correct these details when he was sent the 
recommendation and fact-find in the post, so Im satisfied Mr A had the chance to correct 
these details if his circumstances had changed between the initial meeting and the 
recommendation.Thincs fact-find requested an appropriate amount of detail about Mr A and his 
circumstances. It requested details about his mortgage, income and expenditure, savings, 
goals and personal circumstances. So, Im satisfied Thinc made reasonable attempts to 
obtain all the relevant information about Mr A to make a suitable recommendation. I dont 
think its unreasonable for Thinc to rely on the information given to them by Mr A. And whilst 
the policy term and amount of cover didnt match the mortgage Mr A held  Im satisfied both 
were suitable for the mortgage details disclosed to Thinc at the time. 
Was the policy suitable
Id still expect the policy to be a suitable recommendation based on all the other information 
Thinc was given. Ive considered whether the policy wouldve been suitable for Mr As needs 
based on the other information he disclosed to Thinc at the time.
Mr As policy wasnt a condition of his mortgage, and he was single with no dependents. The 
recommended policy would pay the sum assured if he died within the term or if he became 
critically ill. As Mr A was single its understandable why a policy that protected his mortgage 
if he became critically ill was recommended  hed be able to continue living in his home. 
Mr A did have other critical illness cover in place with another provider, but the fact-find 
indicates this wouldnt have been enough to cover his mortgage. It also recorded that he was 
interested in taking separate cover solely for the purpose of mortgage protection. I dont 
think the critical illness part of the policy was unsuitable.
Ive also considered whether the life cover element of the policy was suitable. Mr A didnt 
have any dependants at the time, but this doesnt automatically mean it was an unsuitable 
recommendation. 
The fact-find completed at the time shows Mr A was purchasing his late grandmothers home 
 suggesting there was an emotional attachment to the property. This is further 
demonstrated by his recorded goal of ensuring the property stayed with his estate in the 
event of his death. I can see why Thinc would recommend taking out a decreasing term 
policy in this situation  the life cover would mean that should Mr A die the property would be 
left to his estate and wouldnt be sold to recover any lending. 
Mr A also had death in service cover with his employer. But this wouldnt offer the same level 
of protection that the recommended policy provided. If Mr A was made unemployed or the 
terms of his employment changed, he could be left without his death in service protection. I 
dont think it was unsuitable for the life cover to be recommended along with critical illness 
insurance.
Taking into consideration his recorded income and expenditure the policy recommended 
also appears to have been affordable for Mr A when it was taken out. Mr A paid £21.37 per 
month for £45,000 of cover. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this cost was unaffordable 
when he was advised to take out the policy.
Whilst the policy term and amount of cover was not suitable for the mortgage Mr A held it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Thinc responsible for this as the details given to them were incorrect. 
As the policy otherwise met Mr A needs, Im satisfied Thincs advice was suitable based on 
the information Mr A provided at the time.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman