DRN-2868324
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In 2006 Mr C bought a new vehicle made by a European manufacturer. Over the years, the 
vehicle did less than average mileage.
For the year from July 2020, Mr C had the vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy under 
which Advantage was responsible for dealing with claims. The policy covered damage to the 
car but not mechanical or electrical failure or wear and tear.
In mid-August 2020, there was heavy rain and the vehicle suffered electrical issues. Mr C 
removed and dried out its body control module (BCM). He also called for help from a 
roadside assistance company.
In early September 2020, Mr C made a claim to Advantage. At first, Advantage led Mr C to 
believe it would settle his claim. Mr C said he wanted to keep the damaged car and repair it 
himself. But Advantages salvage agents contacted Mr C about collecting the car.
On 11 September 2020, Advantages vehicle assessor inspected the car. Following the 
assessors report, Advantage turned down the claim as wear and tear.
Mr C complained to Advantage. In October 2020, Advantage paid him £80.00 compensation. 
By a final response dated 10 November 2020, Advantage said that its policy didnt cover 
parts failure and there was no evidence of water ingress. But it apologised for having given 
incorrect information and it offered a further £200.00 compensation. Unhappy with that, Mr C 
brought his complaint to us in late December 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that  
Advantage was wrong in declining the claim. But she thought that Advantage provided a 
level of service that fell considerably short of what Mr C was entitled to. She thought the 
£280.00 was fair and reasonable compensation.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He has a health issues made worse by stress.
He has suffered family break-up.
There were thunderstorms and heavy showers early into the morning of 14 August 
2020 in his area.
After the wipers got a mind of their own, he managed to get the car home and parked 
off road with the dash lights flashing.
He did an online search that indicated it was a BCM fault.
He didn't even notice any water in the car until he removed the BCM. It and its shelf 
were full of water.
Water evaporates, especially in August heat.
Brief exposure to clean rain water wouldnt cause corrosion. The connectors arent 
made of easily corrodible metals.
The car failed to start.
An online video shows a similar BCM full of water and with the same symptoms as 
his.
Advantage paid him the £80.00 compensation for being messed around, at the same 
time as agreeing to fix his car.
His car has typical water damage.
The assessors report was nearly a month after the storm. The assessor didn't even 
open the bonnet or do electrical tests.
A fault diagnosis cant be done from just looking at a BCM unless it has been badly 
physically damaged, which his wasn't.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms excluded the following:
Wear and tear, deterioration, depreciation, or any loss or damage that happens 
gradually, and 
Failures, breakdowns or breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer 
equipment.
Ive noted Mr Cs statement that he removed and dried the BCM. And Ive noted the roadside 
assistance companys notes as follows:
rain water got into the fuse box - some electrics work some dont - cust adamant for 
roadside adv most likely will need to go into a garage - vehicle was driving ok 
yesterday.
I accept Mr Cs evidence that the BCM had got wet. But he didnt contact Advantage until 2 
September 2020. And the assessors inspection wasnt until 11 September. His report said 
there was no evidence of water damage to the module or wiring harness. 
I dont doubt the sincerity of Mr Cs view of the cause of the failure of the BCM. But I  dont 
consider that Mr C has provided enough technical evidence to show that rainwater had 
damaged his BCM.So  keeping in mind that the policy excluded wear and tear and electrical failure -  I dont 
consider that Advantage treated Mr C unfairly by turning down his claim.
Ive seen that Advantage and its agents gave Mr C conflicting and confusing information 
about accepting the claim, arranging repair and collecting the car. Advantage was slow to 
send him a copy of the assessors report after he asked for it.
I dont doubt that these shortcomings caused Mr C extra distress and inconvenience at an 
already difficult time for him. But Advantage paid him a total of £280.00. And I find that fair 
and in line with what I wouldve directed Advantage to pay. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr C any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman