DRN-1959419
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the non-sterling transaction fee that he was charged by Tesco 
Personal Finance Plc, when he made a payment in euros. He wants an explanation as to 
why the fee was so high and doesnt think it was fair.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B made a purchase using his credit card which was paid for in euros. 
When he received his credit card statement, he noticed that a non-sterling transaction fee 
had been applied. 
Mr B complained to Tesco. In response to his complaint it said that its terms explained that a 
fee would be charged for any foreign usage of the card. And the charges had been applied 
in line with its terms and conditions. And it offered him £20 as a goodwill gesture 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint 
and explained that Tesco had provided information about the foreign currency exchange fee. 
Mr B didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr B took out his credit card with Tesco, he would have been provided with a copy of 
its terms and conditions. Tesco has provided a copy of these. They explain that the 
exchange rate in respect of any foreign currency transaction is determined by Visa or 
Mastercard and that Tesco would apply a handling fee.Mr B wants an explanation as to why 
the non-sterling transaction fee is calculated in the way that it is. Its not for me to comment 
on how Tesco prices its fees such as the non -sterling transaction fee that Mr B is concerned 
about. But I can consider how it presented this information to Mr B.
In addition to this information Tesco has provided a copy of Mr Bs credit card statement for 
December 2018. This sets out a schedule of fees and charges. And in the section in relation 
to foreign usage it says that a non-sterling transaction fee of 2.75% would apply to the 
transaction. So, Im satisfied from everything Ive seen that Tesco would have provided 
enough information for Mr B to be aware that a non-sterling transaction fee would apply to 
such a transaction and how much that would be. 
 
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance Plc has already offered to pay Mr B £20 to settle the complaint as a 
goodwill gesture. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Tesco Personal Finance Plc, should pay Mr £20, only if it hasnt 
already done so, if Mr B accepts my decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24July2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman