DRN-3345386
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt help recover the money he lost to 
an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr P says that he was looking to learn to trade online and came across eMarketsTrade via 
an unsolicited email. He left his contact details on its website and was subsequently 
telephoned by a representative who asked him about his previous trading experience as well 
as how much money he wanted to make. Mr P said that he was just enquiring but would love 
to make £1,000 a month if he learnt to trade. 
Mr P says that he was asked to start with an initial deposit of £250 which he was willing to 
risk. He was assigned an account manager who, he was told, would offer help and guidance 
in making his trading experience profitable. Mr P was given access to a trading platform 
where he could see his trading account balance as well as his trades. Hes told us that his 
account manager guided him daily at the start and told him what trades to place. 
Within the first week, Mr P made over £5,000. He says that although he wasnt given a 
chance to check anything once he made his initial deposit, he was swept along and didnt 
have a reason to doubt anything. 
Mr P says he was trading every two or three days with the help of his account manager and 
his account balance grew fast. When he asked about making a withdrawal, his account 
manager advised him to leave the funds in his trading account for longer to build up the 
balance. Mr P says that he was convinced to deposit more money into his trading account. 
(Mr Ps bank account statements show that he took out multiple loans to fund the deposits). 
One day, when his available balance was around £222,000, Mr P decided to attempt a 
withdrawal. He received a notification that his request was pending. The following day, 
Mr Ps account manager called him and said that they would place about 12 trades which 
would make him very rich. Mr P agreed to this and his account balance started dwindling as 
the trades were placed. He says that he was assured the dip in the balance was temporary 
and it would all work out in a few days once the trades had been completed. His account 
manager also told him that he could make a withdrawal once the account had reached 
£350,000. 
But the account balance plummeted further, and Mr P was asked to deposit £15,000 to help 
recover the losses. He agreed to this as his account manager said that they would make 
back the money in about a weeks time. 
When the situation didnt improve, Mr P was asked to deposit more money. He says that his 
trading account was transferred to a senior manager. Around this time, the account balance 
had dropped to around £23,476. 
The following transactions were made using Mr Ps debit card:  
Date (on bank 
statement)Merchant Amount
11 May 2018 EW*TRADING FINANCE £250.00
4 June 2018 EW*TRADING FINANCE £2,000.00
7 June 2018 EW*TRADING FINANCE £1,710.00
13 July 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £7,208.27 
(plus £198.22 non-sterling fee)
13 July 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £3,414.45 
(plus £93.89 non-sterling fee)
16 July 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £3,816.12 
(plus £104.94 non-sterling fee)
16 July 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £7,479.60 
(plus £205.68 non-sterling fee)
3 September 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £2,317.44 
(plus £63.72 non-sterling fee)
3 September 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £3,862.41 
(plus £106.21 non-sterling fee)
3 September 2018 FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA £6,179.85 
(plus £169.94 non-sterling fee)
Total payments £38.238.14 
(plus £942.60 non-sterling fee)
Total loss £39,180.74
Mr P says he tried to make a withdrawal dozens of times but was unsuccessful. Eventually, 
he employed the services of a company to help him recover his money. It was with the 
assistance from this company that Mr P contacted HSBC and requested a chargeback. But 
HSBC declined to attempt a chargeback on the grounds that the request had been made out 
of time. Unhappy with this, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld it  she thought that HSBC didnt act unfairly in declining Mr Ps 
chargeback request, but it ought to have intervened when by the time hed made the sixth 
payment as there were fraud triggers by then. And had it done so, the investigator thought 
that Mr P wouldnt have gone ahead with it and the subsequent payments. It was also her 
view that Mr P would have been able to provide HSBC with the information necessary to 
meet any chargeback requirements for the previous payments. She therefore asked HSBC 
to reimburse the transactions in full and add interest.
HSBC didnt agree, so the matter was escalated to me for review and determination. I issued 
my provisional decision in February 2022. I said that I didnt intend upholding his complaint, 
and set out the following reasoning:
Mr P says that his dealings were with eMarketsTrade. Given the information Ive 
found during my research on this company, Im satisfied that Mr P has likely been the 
victim of a scam, rather than simply losing money because of a high-risk investment. 
eMarketsTrade wasnt regulated (as required) by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) at the time it contracted with Mr P. Theres also a warning published about it 
by the FCA, albeit nearly three months after Mr P made the final payment he 
disputes. And, its website appears to have vanished without trace.
While I think that eMarketsTrade was likely operating a scam, the chargeback 
scheme rules dont automatically entitle Mr P to a refund based on these 
circumstances. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme operator. In this case, the 
operator is Visa. Visa will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
cardholder if it cant be resolved between them. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can 
succeed or be deemed a valid claim. My role is not to second-guess Visas 
arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (HSBC 
in this case) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very 
narrow. Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for 
investments where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw 
available balances. But Visa requires very specific evidence  a copy of the 
cardholders investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount, and the 
available balance at the time the withdrawal request was made.
From the information Ive seen, Mr P didnt provide the required evidence to HSBC 
when he requested a chargeback. He first provided evidence in March 2019. 
Although theres a screenshot dated 5 March 2019 which shows an available balance 
on this trading account, theres no evidence of a withdrawal request being made on 
the same date. The next time Mr P provided this information to HSBC was in May 
2019. This time, he included a screenshot dated 30 April 2019 of the withdraw 
screen. But this screenshot doesnt show the balance available to withdraw. Although 
Mr P provided another screenshot which shows an available balance, theres no 
date. 
I can see Mr P informed HSBC on both occasions that nothing happened on the 
website when he attempted to withdraw the available balance. I accept it wasnt 
Mr Ps fault that he was unable to provide the specific evidence required by Visa. But 
HSBC could only have successfully presented a chargeback claim if Mr P had 
provided this evidence. But because he didnt, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by 
not pursuing the chargeback. Under Visas rules, there was no reasonable prospect 
of success.
The next question Ive considered is whether HSBC ought to have intervened before 
allowing any of the disputed payments to be made.
Theres no dispute that Mr P authorised the transactions; he made them by using his 
legitimate security credentials. While he didnt intend the money to go to scammers, 
Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, in accordance with 
the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, to have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, to 
make additional checks before processing payments, or declining them altogether to 
protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud. 
As the investigator explained, its considered good industry practice for firms to have 
updated watch-lists with types of scams and potential fraudsters and for those watch-lists to be updated and communicated internally to staff within one month of an alert 
being posted by the FCA or the International Organisation of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO). Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and lead to a 
payment being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or 
giving a scam warning. 
But as the investigator also pointed out, there was no FCA or IOSCO warning about 
EW*TRADING FINANCE or FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA when Mr P authorised the 
payments. Although Mr P thought hed made the payments to eMarketsTrade, it was 
these merchants that had requested the funds from his bank. But even if it was the 
case that eMarketsTrade had requested the payments from HSBC, there were no 
warnings from the FCA or IOSCO at the time of these payments that indicated it was 
a scam company. 
In other words, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have picked up payments to 
EW*TRADING FINANCE, FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA, or indeed eMarketsTrade as 
being suspicious based on the merchant name alone, given theres no credible 
evidence of them being reported as a scam or fraudulent company when the 
payments were made.   
That said, Ive also reviewed Mr Ps account history starting 12 months prior to the 
first disputed transaction. I dont consider the first three payments  all to 
EW*TRADING FINANCE  particularly unusual or out of character. Mr P had 
occasionally made card payments for similar amounts. Its not unreasonable that 
these payments werent flagged by HSBCs systems as suspicious. Theres a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring 
minimal disruption to legitimate payments.
In my view, the fourth payment  £7,208.27 to FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA  was 
unusual. It was for an amount that didnt fit in with Mr Ps general spending pattern 
based on the previous 12 months. It was also a foreign transaction to an overseas 
merchant. Having considered the available information, I think that there were 
grounds for additional checks here. 
But even if HSBC had carried out further checks, Im not persuaded that this would 
have unravelled the scam at this stage. I say this because in July 2018, there wasnt 
information available to HSBC that eMarketsTrade, or indeed 
FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA as it appeared on Mr Ps statement, was involved in a 
scam. So, any fraud warning that it could have given him following contacting him 
would have been about investment scams in general. 
If Mr P had gone away to do some checks, he wouldnt have found any warnings 
about eMarketsTrade on the FCA website, given a warning wasnt published until five 
months later. My research also shows that there wasnt adverse information in the 
public domain about eMarketsTrade at that time. Ive seen some negative reviews 
about it pre-July 2018, including delays with processing withdrawals and customers 
losing money. But while this could be seen as circumstantial evidence that helps 
build an overall picture of eMarketsTrade, this is not in itself sufficient evidence of 
fraud. 
Mr Ps research might have led him to discover that eMarketsTrade wasnt registered 
with the FCA. But Im not confident that this discovery would have led him to act 
differently. Mr P has told us that he trusted his account manager and had no reason 
to doubt his word. And I can see from the information provided that Mr P felt reassured by his account managers response when he questioned the merchant 
name appearing differently on his bank statement. 
Given how caught up hed been in the scam, if Mr P had questioned eMarketsTrades 
registration status with his account manager following a suitable intervention from 
HSBC, I think its more likely than not that any explanation he would have been given 
would have left him reassured that everything was above board. 
Mr Ps own testimony is that he was swept away and was happy with how his 
account was progressing. His trust had been gained. He had access to the online 
platform where he could see his trades, balance, and progress. Mr P has told that us 
he could see his profits staring back at him from his account dashboard. And 
although hed enquired about making a withdrawal, he was persuaded to leave the 
funds in his trading account. Mr Ps testimony is that the problems really started 
when his deposits started disappearing faster. And when he was unable to withdraw 
his available balance of £23,476. But this happened later. Therefore, Im not 
convinced that any contact from or further discussion with HSBC would have stopped 
Mr P from going ahead with the fourth payment. 
As time went on, the payments came to form part of Mr Ps pattern of account 
activity. The account history meant that other  similar value  payments to 
FXPLACE.TRADEFXPLA didnt appear significantly out of character and therefore 
indicative of fraud. So, they wouldnt reasonably have appeared suspicious to HSBC. 
And by this point, as seen from Mr Ps bank account statements, there were large-
value transactions to other overseas merchants as well. So, Im not persuaded that 
HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr P. Any failings by HSBC 
were not the dominant, effective cause of Mr Ps losses; they were just the part of the 
background history or events that led up to them.
I invited further comments from both parties. HSBC said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr P said that he had shredded any documentation relating to eMarketsTrade to clear any 
reminders of what had happened. He had presumed that he had been unsuccessful with his 
complaint, given so much time had passed since he first contacted our service. In his 
response, Mr P also said that he had forwarded some of the documentation to the company 
he had engaged with  and paid a fee to  to try and recover his money. He said HSBC took 
so long to reply to him as well as the company assisting him. And the situation caused him 
financial and emotional hardship.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr P for his comments. Im sorry to hear about his circumstances, and dont doubt 
that this has been a stressful and difficult period of time. I also acknowledge that hes had to 
wait a long time for an outcome to be reached on his case. 
I can see that Mr P has previously informed our service that he had destroyed any 
documentation relating to the scam. While I appreciate hes told us his reasons for taking 
this action, as mentioned in my provisional decision, Visa requires very specific evidence 
when it comes to chargebacks. Without this information, it wont consider a chargeback 
claim to be valid. It may be the case that Mr P forwarded the information to the claims 
management company he used at the time. But this information wasnt made available to 
HSBC, nor was it included in Mr Ps submissions to our service.In summary, having considered the matter very carefully, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr P. 
Not least because the complaint has been ongoing for some time now and our investigator 
previously upheld it. But I think that its the cruel actions of the scammers  not HSBCs 
errors  that caused the loss here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman