DRN-2095159
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc failed to refund him the money he lost after 
he was victim of an email scam.
 
What happened
Mr C was having some work done on his property. He received an email from his builder 
providing details of the bank account for payment. Very soon after this he got another email 
from the same email address apologising for a mistake in the first email and providing details 
of a new bank account to which Mr C was to make payment. Mr C made an online payment 
of £4,500 to that account on 22 July 2019.
Shortly after, the builder contacted Mr C to say his email account had been hacked and the 
hadnt received any money. Mr C immediately contacted The Co-op on 31 July 2019 to 
explain what had happened and to say hed been the victim of a scam. The Co-op then 
contacted the receiving bank but on 1 August that bank replied to confirm there was no 
money left in that account.
Mr C says The Co-op could have done more to verify the payment such as ensuring the 
account name and number matched. He feels it should refund his money as he was the 
victim of a scam. And he queried why it wouldnt refund him under the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which provided for repayments in cases like this.
The Co-op agreed Mr C had been the victim of a scam but said there were a number of 
steps he could have taken to check the payment details before sending a large payment to a 
new account and he hadnt done so. It noted that Mr C had correctly authorised the payment 
and as it hadnt made a mistake in handling it, it couldnt agree to refund the loss.  It said at 
the time of the payment in July 2019 it hadnt signed up to the CRM code so it wasnt 
applicable to this  complaint.
Our investigator first considered if there were any reasons for The Co-op to query the 
payment but noted the payment was in line with a number of other large payments in recent 
months so it wasnt unusual. It had also been properly authorised by Mr C and he didnt feel 
The Co-op would have identified anything suspicious about the transaction. Once The Co-op 
was made aware of the scam it had contacted the receiving bank but unfortunately the funds 
had already gone and there was nothing more it could do.  In the circumstances he didnt 
feel The Co-op had made a mistake so he couldnt ask it to refund the payment and as it 
hadnt signed up to the CRM Code until December 2019, this didnt apply.
Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; the 
regulators rules; the guidance and standards; any relevant codes of practice and what is 
considered to be industry good practice at the time. 
Having done so, I consider that The Co-op has acted fairly so I wont be asking it to do 
anything more as Ill now explain.
In general a bank is expected to follow a customers instructions with regard to transactions 
on their account. This is part of their agreement with their customer and is also part of the 
overarching regulations that govern banking services.  In this case Mr C authorised the 
payment of £4,500 and The Co-op acted on those instructions as Mr C expected it to do.
Unfortunately, the second email to Mr C wasnt genuine so the money didnt go to his builder 
as intended but to a fraudulent account. The question is whether The Co-op should have 
been alert to this and taken steps to prevent it.
Its also the case that banks may be liable, even if the payment was authorised, if there were 
reasonable grounds to think that the payment wasnt genuine. Banks are also expected to 
exercise the appropriate care and diligence in the way they manage their business and to 
have regard to their customers interests. Part of that, for example, is for banks to try and 
identify any unusual transactions that could be the result of fraud or pressure on their 
customer and to check if these are genuine before going ahead.
However I cant agree that The Co-op should have realised there was an issue with this 
particular payment. The payment for £4,500 wasnt out of line with a number of payments Mr 
C had made in recent months and the payment was correctly set up and authorised by Mr C.
Ive seen Mr C has said it could have been prevented if The Co-op had the technology to 
match the account name with the account number. However, while this option came live in 
2019, it wont be a requirement until March 2021 so I cant reasonably criticise the Co-op for 
not having it in place in July 2019.
Its also correct, as Mr C has said, that a new scheme, the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model, was set up in 2019 to provide assistance to customers who fall victim to online scams 
such as this one. The scheme is a voluntary one however and its for each bank to decide if 
its willing to join. The Co-op joined in December 2019 but, at the time of this payment, it 
wasnt a member of the scheme. For that reason, I cant ask The Co-op to compensate Mr C 
under the CRM for a payment that was made before it became a member.
Ive also looked to see how The Co-op reacted once Mr C alerted it to the scam. Mr C 
notified it of the scam at 18.30 on the 31 July and The Co-op contacted the receiving bank at 
10.30 the next morning and the other bank came back the same day to say there were no 
funds in the account. Fraudsters will try to remove their funds as soon as possible and as 
this transaction had taken place some 10 days earlier, this was disappointing but not 
surprising. I understand how frustrating that must be for Mr C but Im satisfied The Co-op 
acted reasonably in the circumstances and that there wasnt much more it could have done 
at that point.
Ive every sympathy for the position Mr C finds himself in. Hes been scammed out of a 
significant sum and I can understand how upsetting this must be. Online scams are 
becoming increasingly frequent and sophisticated and banks and their customers are having 
to be constantly alert to try and avoid them.
In this case the second (fraudulent) email was sent from the same email address as the first 
(genuine) email and would at first sight appear to have been genuine. Unfortunately it wasnt 
but this shows the detail of many scams and why they can be so difficult to detect.I realise this isnt the decision Mr C was hoping for but, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
consider that The Co-op is responsible for this payment going through or that it could have 
done more to prevent the payment being made. And once it was aware of the problem it did 
what it could to assist Mr C in recovering his funds. In the circumstances I cant reasonably 
ask The Co-op to reimburse the scammed payment to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and I wont be asking The Co-
operative Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman