DRN-3364502
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded transactions on her account that she 
says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs A opened a new account with Lloyds on 28 July 2021. At different times Mrs A has said 
she opened the account as she wanted to buy a car and that she wanted a separate account 
to manage some of her direct debits. 
A personal identification number (PIN) and debit card were sent to her separately on 29 and 
31 July 2021 respectively. But Mrs A said these never arrived.
On 5 August 2021 Mrs A had a total of £5,800 deposited into the account. That same day 
someone used the card and PIN at a cash machine to first check the balance on the account 
and then withdraw £250. Mrs A has said this wasnt her and couldnt have been because the 
card and PIN were never received.
The card and PIN were then used regularly for 19 days, though not every day. Most of the 
activity was cash machine withdrawals of £250. There was one point of sale transaction on 
19 August 2021. From 20 August 2021 the person using the card and PIN started to 
withdraw more cash, carrying out two withdrawals of £250 each up until 23 August 2021, 
after which the card was blocked by Lloyds.
Mrs A phoned Lloyds on 27 August 2021 to report that the card and PIN hadnt arrived. 
Shes explained she took as long as she did because there had been a family bereavement. 
When she spoke to Lloyds it told her about the activity on the account and she disputed it 
right away.
Lloyds investigated Mrs As claim of fraud but said it was holding her responsible for the 
transactions. It said the card and PIN had been sent separately to her registered address. 
And so it couldnt see how someone would have been able to intercept both. 
Lloyds recognised it had given Mrs A some incorrect information about the cancelling of her 
card, where it had wrongly said shed need to go to branch for that to happen. It paid her £60 
in compensation for its mistake.
Mrs A wasnt happy with Lloyds answer and so she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. In summary, he said: 
There wasnt a reasonable explanation for how an unknown fraudster could have 
obtained Mrs As card and PIN given they were sent under separate cover to her 
home address;
He noted Mrs As post was delivered through a letterbox in her front door, making it 
difficult to intercept;
There appeared to be no attempts to use the card until funds credited the account 
where a fraudster would most likely have tried to make use of it right away;
The card wasnt used every day to withdraw cash and there was only one point of 
sale transaction over the disputed period. He said that wasnt representative of the 
behavior of an unknown fraudster as theyd look to obtain as much money as quickly 
as possible;
He thought it was strange that Mrs A had put money into an account that she had no 
access to, given she says she didnt have the card and PIN. And the reasons shed 
given for putting the money into the account had been inconsistent and didnt make 
sense given she had another usable account;
He found it was more likely than not Mrs A had either made the transactions herself 
or given the card and PIN to someone else to use;
The compensation paid by the bank in respect of the incorrect information given to 
Mrs A during its investigation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for a review by an ombudsman. 
She questioned why CCTV hadnt been obtained as she said it would show she didnt carry 
out the transactions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In a case like this I can never say for certain what has actually happened. I must base my 
findings on the evidence that is available. That includes a customers version of events, as 
well as records from a bank that show things like: how and when a debit card was sent, and 
how and when transactions were made. Sometimes evidence may be incomplete or missing. 
With all of that in mind, I must make my findings on the balance of probabilities. That is to 
say what I consider is more likely than not to have happened.
Having thought about all the available evidence, Im persuaded its more likely than not Mrs 
A either made the transactions herself or gave the card and PIN to someone else to carry 
them out. It then follows that I find Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in declining to 
refund the transactions Mrs A has disputed. Ill explain why.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 are particularly relevant to this complaint. Broadly 
speaking, they set out when a customer can and cant be held responsible for transactions 
on their account. If transactions were properly authorised  having been authenticated and 
consented to  then the bank can fairly hold its customer responsible for them, even if they 
dispute making them. But the bank must provide evidence to show the transactions were 
authorised. 
I know Mrs A has strongly contested that the bank ought to have obtained CCTV footage for 
at least some of the transactions. She says this would clearly have shown she wasnt using 
the card and PIN. 
Even if footage showed that Mrs A didnt carry out the transactions herself, it wouldnt rule 
out the possibility that shed given the card and PIN to someone else. And that remains part 
of the more likely than not explanation for how the transactions were carried out.
I agree it would have been helpful for the bank to at least attempt to request some CCTV 
footage. But the lack of it doesnt mean that Mrs As complaint ought to be upheld and it 
doesnt mean the bank has no evidence she authorised the disputed transactions. So what 
other evidence is there?
To start with, the bank has clearly evidenced that it sent the card and PIN to Mrs As 
registered address. Each was sent separately, on different days. And Mrs As post is 
delivered through the letterbox in her front door; theres no shared mail collection point. 
Mrs A doesnt live with anyone shes suggested could have carried out the transactions. So the question then is how an unknown third party fraudster could have intercepted both the 
card and PIN. There isnt a satisfactory answer to that question.
The bank has evidenced that the chip in the debit card was read for each transaction, before 
being authorised using the PIN. So theres no doubt that the genuine card was being used 
along with the bank issued PIN. 
The card and PIN more likely than not arrived at Mrs As home address by 4 August 2021 at 
the latest, given when they were posted to her. And yet there was no attempt to use the card 
until around 10pm on the night of 5 August 2021. That was around six hours after Mrs A had 
funds paid into the account. This means that Mrs A waited until the day the fraud started to 
put money into the account. It had been open since 28 July 2021 and Mrs A has said she 
knew the account details and wanted to put money aside in the account so she could buy a 
car. So it seems strange that she waited more than a week after account opening, and the 
very same day the disputed transactions started, to put funds into the account. 
It also seems strange that an unknown fraudster wouldnt have tried to use the card sooner 
than they did. Any such person would have had no idea how much was in the account until 
they attempted a transaction and/or balance enquiry. And having successfully stolen a card 
and PIN Id expect to see a fraudster attempting to use it as quickly as possible, to maximise 
the chances of getting access to any money in the account. 
But the evidence shows that whoever had the card didnt attempt to use it until money had 
been paid in, despite having been in possession of it for what would likely have been a day 
or more. Theres not a reasonable explanation as to why someone that had stolen the card 
wouldnt have tried to use it right away, and it seems too great a coincidence that attempts 
werent made until just hours after money had been paid in.
Ive thought about the transactions themselves and what they tell us about what more likely 
than not happened. The transactions clearly show that someone was withdrawing a lot of 
cash in a short period of time. But it is also true that whoever was using the card wasnt 
maximising the amount they could withdraw. They knew the account had £5,800 in it on 
5 August 2021. And yet they didnt withdraw the maximum amount of cash every day; there 
are gaps when nothing is withdrawn. 
Its also true that the cash machine withdrawal limit was £500, and yet there was no attempt 
to withdraw more than £250 until 20 August 2021. More than two weeks after the card and 
PIN was in someones possession. Point of sale transactions with merchants also werent 
attempted at all until 19 August 2021. 
If an unknown fraudster had been able to obtain the card and PIN, Id expect to see them 
withdrawing as much as possible, as quickly as possible, from cash machines and for there 
to be significant usage with merchants too. Not doing so limits the amount the fraudster 
might take before the theft of the card is discovered. And so the account usage here doesnt 
lead me to believe an unknown fraudster was operating without Mrs As consent.
Lloyds electronic evidence for the transactions also reveals the location of much of the 
spending. Of the cash machines used I can see that at least four of them are within a mile of 
Mrs As home address. Whilst its not impossible that a fraudster might operate in the local 
area, it does seem strange that much of the activity takes place so close to Mrs As home. It 
further decreases the likelihood of an unknown third party fraudster being involved.
I find the delay in Mrs A reporting the missing card and PIN to the bank unusual. Shes said 
that she had other things on her mind as thered been a family bereavement. Im sorry to 
hear if thats the case and I can see how that would mean she perhaps didnt think about the 
new account shed opened. But it also doesnt seem to fit with the other circumstances 
Mrs A has described to us.
Shes said that the money was put into the account to buy a car. That does seem slightly 
unusual given she had access to a working account already, for which she presumably had a card and PIN, and possibly internet banking too. But I can, at least to an extent, accept her 
explanation that she wanted to keep the funds separate.
Mrs A has told us the reason she wanted to keep the funds separate was because she found 
herself in financial difficulty. She explained to our investigator that she had a lot of direct 
debits on her other account and accumulating debts, so she was worried about the money. 
But then not checking on the account at all for the best part of a month isnt behaviour 
reflective of someone thats either looking to buy a car or thats worried about their financial 
difficulties. Its fair to say that someone looking to buy a car would have wanted access to 
the funds to secure the purchase. And if someone was in financial difficulties and concerned 
about their incomings and outgoings, it seems odd that theyd not be mindful of an account 
balance of nearly £6,000 and to not check it at all for so long. 
All Ive set out here points to the more likely than not explanation being that Mrs A either 
made the transactions herself or gave the card and PIN to someone else. Shed be 
responsible for the spending in either of those situations, even if she didnt necessarily know 
about all the spending in advance. 
I cant completely rule out that an unknown fraudster obtained Mrs As card and PIN without 
her knowing. But the available evidence doesnt point to that as being what more likely than 
not happened. And so I find the bank have fairly and reasonably declined to refund Mrs A.
Mrs A has also complained about misinformation given by the bank. Its already 
compensated her £60 for that. And given the findings Ive made on the main part of her 
complaint it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to award anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman