The complaint
Mrs S says that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 2009.
What happened
Mrs S applied for the PPI over the phone in May 2009, when she contacted Tesco Bank to 
activate her card.
Mrs S thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think Mrs S's complaint about the way the 
PPI was sold should be upheld. Mrs S didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether Mrs S knew she had a choice about buying the PPI. Mrs S, 
through her representative, has told us that at no point was it clear to her that the policy was 
optional. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I have about the sale.
This sale took place by phone, and Tesco Bank has sent us a recording of the call. I've 
listened to this call. Tesco's representative said the policy was optional. Then, after checking 
if Mrs S was eligible for the policy and providing details of the costs and main features, the 
representative asked Mrs S if she'd be happy to have the protection on her account. The 
representative then ran through further details of the cover, asked if Mrs S understood the 
cover, and then asked her again to say whether she was happy to take out the cover. Mrs S 
said she was. So having listened to the call I'm satisfied that Mrs S understood she had a 
choice and chose to buy the PPI.
I'm satisfied that Tesco Bank didn't advise Mrs S to buy the policy. So it didn't have to check 
it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
DRN-1068459It's possible the information Tesco Bank gave Mrs S about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs S chose to buy the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. It doesn't look as though Mrs S was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong.
I acknowledge that Mrs S received some sick pay from her employer. But this policy would 
have repaid 10% of her outstanding balance each month for up to a year if she needed to 
claim - which is longer than she got sick pay for. The policy also covered her if she was 
made redundant. So I'm not persuaded that better information would have put Mrs S off 
buying the cover.
This means Tesco Bank doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Tesco Bank has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because
Tesco Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Tesco Bank didn't
tell Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco Bank has basically offered to refund the amount of
commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, and I think
that is fair in this case.
I've thought about the other points Mrs S has raised - but these points don't change my 
decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesn't have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should now pay this if it hasn't 
done so already. I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman