DRN-3462479
The complaint
Ms S has complained about irregularities in relation to a mortgage application made through 
Axis Business Solutions Limited (Axis). To settle the complaint Ms S would like to be sent 
the email of the originally submitted application and cancellation of it.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 April 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, rather than repeating all the 
details here, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. Finally, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Ms S being identified.
Briefly, in November 2021 Ms S and a third party were given mortgage advice by Axis, 
following which an application was submitted to a lender for a re-mortgage. The new 
mortgage didnt go ahead. Ms S then raised a complaint with Axis, saying there were 
irregularities in the documentation and that an application had been submitted without her 
consent. Mrs S was also concerned that she hadnt received an email from Axis about the 
application.
Axis didnt uphold the complaint, and sent Ms S a copy of all the documentation it held. Axis 
confirmed it had been given one email address, which was recorded on the fact-find. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Ms S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened. He obtained the application form from the lender 
the application had been submitted to and was satisfied that this matched the information 
compiled by Axis in its fact-find. As a result, he didnt think Axis had done anything wrong. 
Whilst he noted Ms Ss concerns about what had happened, he wasnt persuaded there was 
anything untoward in the way the application had been dealt with. Ms S was sent all the 
documentation we held.
Ms S disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although this complaint relates to a joint mortgage application, the complaint has been 
brought by Ms S alone. She has provided her reasons for this and I confirm it is appropriate 
for us to consider the complaint in just her sole name.
I confirm Ive taken note of everything Ms S has said about this case  including the reasons 
why she believes something has gone wrong. Mrs S has told us about personal matters 
between herself and the other party on the application, but I wont comment on these for 
reasons of privacy. But I confirm Ive read and considered everything Ms S has said.
Ive looked at the fact-find and the information compiled by Axis and submitted to the lender. 
I have also looked at the application form the lender has on record. These, and the other 
available documents from both Axis and the lender, do not lead me to conclude that anything 
untoward has happened or that there were irregularities in the application, either deliberate 
or inadvertent.
I know from what shes told us that Ms S has very strongly-held reasons for believing Axis 
hasnt acted in her best interests. I completely understand, given her personal 
circumstances, why Ms S might think that. But after reviewing all the evidence, Im satisfied 
there is nothing out of the ordinary in the application. Consequently, Im unable to find that 
Axis has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman