DRN-3269880
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined a claim for damage to her 
property caused by an ingress of water.
All references in this decision to Covea include its appointed agents. And all references to 
Mrs M include her legal representative.
What happened
Mrs M owns a property she rents out. In July 2020 she made a claim through her broker for 
damage to the roof of that property, following work carried out by the neighbours. Dormers 
had been erected to the front and back of the neighbouring property, but the works fell short 
of the expected standards and Mrs Ms property subsequently suffered an ingress of water.
Mrs M had emergency repairs carried out. The loss adjuster that attended after the repairs 
had been completed gave assurances that the roof works were covered under her property 
owners policy. But Covea subsequently declined the claim for repairs to the roof saying 
there was no cover for this under the policy, because they hadnt been provided with 
evidence of damage to the roof, and the roof repairs had been carried out before any site 
inspection took place. 
Mrs M complained to Covea, saying emergency repairs were completed in good faith to 
prevent further damage to the property and to fulfil her obligations to her tenant.
Covea says whilst evidence of internal damage was provided, no photographs were 
provided of physical damage to the roof. Covea also says Mrs M was asked to take 
photographs of the damage before any emergency repairs took place, but that as work was 
carried out before it was able to inspect the damage and no evidence was provided of the 
external damage, its position has been prejudiced.
Mrs M was unhappy with Coveas response to her complaint. So she asked our service to 
look into things. Our investigator considered what had happened, but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He said the only part of the policy which couldve covered the 
damage to the roof would be the accidental cause peril. And that based on the available 
evidence, the damage wasnt caused accidentally, as the builders poor workmanship 
couldnt be described as unforeseen or unintentional.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now been 
referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties accept that the cause of the damage was the work carried out by the 
neighbours builders. Both parties also accept that Mrs M shouldnt have been told that 
Covea would pay for the repairs to the roof. Covea has paid £250 compensation to Mrs M for 
this initial error and I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances, for the 
incorrect information that was given, which unfairly raised Mrs Ms expectations.
However, had the correct information been given from the outset, I think Covea wouldve 
made clear that it wouldnt have accepted the external roof aspect of the claim. I say this 
because there doesnt appear to be an insured peril that the claim could be considered 
under, as our investigator pointed out. Nor was there evidence at the time to support Mrs Ms 
position, as Covea didnt receive photographs of the damage prior to it being repaired.
Ill deal with both of these issues in turn, as I accept that Covea didnt raise the issue of there 
being no insured peril. But I have looked at the case as a whole, and carefully considered 
the policy and what it provides cover for. And whilst I can appreciate why the work was 
carried out prior to the inspection, as Mrs M was trying to mitigate her losses and act 
responsibly as a landlord, I still dont think the claim would succeed on the additional point 
our investigator raised, about there being no insured peril here.
I wont repeat the list of perils covered by the policy. Mrs M accepts that the only possible 
peril that the damage could be covered by, would be the accidental cause peril. 
Our service considers accidental cause to mean something thats unforeseen and 
unintentional. In the circumstances of this case, the neighbours builder did not comply with 
the requirements of the granted planning permission, nor did the neighbours comply with 
requirements under the Party Wall Act when carrying out the contracted work. Given the 
apparent allegations of negligence, its clear that this is not a case where the damage could 
be described as unforeseen or unintentional. I appreciate Mrs Ms point that she could not 
have reasonably foreseen the damage due to the breach of planning permission  but the 
reason that acts of apparent negligence and poor workmanship arent covered by policies is 
generally because there is an element of accountability on the part of a third party here, 
which Mrs M has the option of pursuing.
Indeed, both surveyors reports comment on this. In Coveas report, the surveyor says: I am 
of the opinion that any disturbance and necessary remedial works would not constitute an 
obvious recognised insured peril, a subrogation claim for costs of the roof works may exist 
with the owner [of] the adjoining property or the public liability insurer of the contractor.
Mrs Ms own surveyor also says: The neighbour should have followed the procedures under 
the Party Wall Act for the work and there should be a course for redress.
An interim progress report from the loss adjuster says: As outlined in our preliminary report, 
there may be some recourse against the contractor who constructed the dormers at the 
neighbouring property, seemingly in contravention of planning permission and without 
serving a party wall notice.
It follows that it is clear in this case that there is an element of accountability here, which 
Mrs M may have the option of pursuing. As a side point, the same report mentions significant 
discrepancies between the two surveyors reports, with Coveas surveyor disagreeing with a 
number of points made by Mrs Ms surveyor and giving reasons for those. These comments 
cast some doubt over the scope of the repairs that were needed, though I will not go into 
detail about this, as my focus in this case is whether the damage can be covered by any part 
of the policy. And Im satisfied that the cause of the damage in this case does not meet the 
definition of accidental cause.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, in light of all the information provided, I therefore dont consider Covea has acted unfairly by declining the claim, for the 
reasons Ive given above. It is for Mrs M to now consider what action if any she may be able 
to take against the neighbours contractors  and I would recommend she seeks 
independent legal advice as to her options if this is an avenue she wishes to pursue.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman