DRN-2609228
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Target Servicing Limiteds failure to handle her information request in 
a timely and reasonable manner.
What happened
Mrs H has had a number of loans with another company. Target are responsible for the 
administration of Mrs Hs borrowing with that other company.
In January 2020, Mrs H made a subject access information request to Target under the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). She wanted information to help her pursue a 
complaint and claim about the loans.
Mrs H asked for that information to be sent to her solicitor. This meant that Target asked her 
for information to verify her identity, as they werent sending the personal data about her to 
Mrs H herself.
There was some on-going discussion about that  and some delay. So, Mrs H called Target 
on 5 September 2020 and asked that the information be sent to her rather than her solicitor.
From that point, Target had 30 days  under the Data Protection regulations  to respond to 
Mrs Hs request. 
In fact, they didnt send a response until 5 November 2020  two months after Mrs H made 
her request. And they then discovered they hadnt sent all the relevant information. They 
rectified this but not until 12 November 2020, when Mrs H finally got the complete response 
to her subject access request.
They also asked Mrs H to send some further details when she contacted them in October to 
chase the response. This was entirely unnecessary  and was the result of Targets staff not 
properly updating their records after Mrs Hs call in September.
Mrs H wasnt happy it had taken so long to get Targets response. And that shed had to 
chase Target and send more information in to them. So, she complained to Target.
They admitted theyd failed to provide the information in a timely manner, due to errors on 
their own part. And they offered Mrs H £50 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She felt the 
compensation offered wasnt enough given the stress and inconvenience shed suffered.
Our investigator looked into it and agreed with Mrs H. She said Target should pay £150 in 
total, rather than the £50 theyd offered. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She thinks £150 is still 
insufficient to compensate her for her trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has made a separate complaint to us about issues to do with the loans shes had with 
the other company. Were still looking into that complaint  and, of course, that complaint 
isnt against Target.
So, its best Im clear right at the outset that all Im looking at in this decision is Targets 
failure to provide Mrs H with the requested information in a timely and effective manner. 
I understand that Mrs H may be suffering distress and upset about the situation as a whole. 
And she has my sympathy for the impact she tells us this is having on her health. But its 
important to be clear that, in dealing with this very specific case, we can only ask Target to 
compensate Mrs H for the delayed response to her information request.
Theres no dispute here about the relevant facts. Target have admitted they failed to provide 
a response to Mrs Hs subject access request in good time. And theyve acknowledged that 
was because of errors on their part in the way they handled the request.
So, all that Im being asked to decide here is the size of the compensation.
Putting things right
The overall delay in Mrs H receiving the complete information was about five weeks. She 
should have had a response on 5 October, she finally got the complete information on 12 
November.
That is five extra weeks of worry and stress for Mrs H about this particular issue  that is, 
whether and when shed get the information she wanted. As I say, I cant hold Target 
responsible for any stress Mrs H was feeling about the wider issues with the loans.
I also take into account that Targets poor handling of the request meant Mrs H had to chase 
Target and then provide further information in October which wasnt in fact necessary. So, 
she has suffered some inconvenience due to Targets errors.
Taking all of that into account, I agree with our investigators view that £50 compensation 
wasnt enough, but £150 would be fair and reasonable. 
To be clear, thats £150 in total, not £150 in addition to the £50 Target already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Target Servicing Limited must pay Mrs H £150 in compensation for her trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman