DRN-3365201
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (trading as Legal and General 
L&G) have mishandled and delayed their legal expenses insurance claim.
L&G use intermediaries to administer its legal expenses policy and manage claims on its 
behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of any such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I understand that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the service they have received from 
the panel solicitors appointed by L&G (Firm D), as they feel the solicitors have 
wrongly advised there is no chance of them winning their claim. They are also 
unhappy because in some instances Firm D has taken months to reply. 
So, its clear that Mr and Mrs Js concerns center predominantly around the quality of 
advice and service provided by Firm D. But as the investigator has already set out, 
L&G is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert 
dealing with the day-to-day running of the legal case. As such, our role is to assess 
the insurers handling of the claim in light of the policy terms to determine whether 
theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably, and dealt with the claim fairly. Were 
unable to consider the quality of legal advice (unless it is patently wrong) or the 
actions of a law firm as this falls under the remit of the Legal Ombudsman, whom I 
understand Mr and Mrs J have already referred a case to about Firm D. 
I appreciate that L&G appointed Firm D under the policy to consider the merits of Mr 
and Mrs Js claim. But the solicitors are not acting on the insurers behalf; they are 
ultimately acting for Mr and Mrs J, so L&G cannot be held responsible for the quality 
of advice or service provided by Firm D. Solicitors have their own professional codes 
of conduct and regulatory framework within which they operate; they do not fall under 
the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority, and so fall outside the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
In terms of L&Gs handling of the insurance claim, I can see that it referred Mr and 
Mrs J concerns to the solicitor as and when they were raised. It also chased up the 
solicitors when they said they hadnt heard back from them, which is what I would 
have reasonably expected the insurer to do in these circumstances. I appreciate that 
there have been some lengthy delays in the progression of Mr and Mrs Js legal 
case, and Firm D has acknowledged this and also offered compensation. But Im not 
persuaded that any of the significant delays can fairly be attributed to L&G, as it has 
not been involved in the running of the legal claim and has followed up on Mr and 
Mrs Js requests withing a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr and Mrs J have said they want to be compensated for £100,000 as a result of 
L&G for selling them a product that does not work for them. However, they have not 
presented any fair, reasonable, or legal basis in which they would be entitled to such 
damages. The fact that they are having issues with their legal claim and appointed 
solicitors does not mean the policy has been mis-sold or is not fit for purpose. 
I note that since the complaint has been referred to us, Mr and Mrs J have raised 
further concerns about delays with L&G responding to them, as well as requesting a 
change of solicitor. However, as the investigator has explained, this service is only 
able to address the complaint points that have first been raised and considered by 
L&G. As such, the remit of this decision extends only to considering the insurers 
handling of the claim up until the complaint was referred to this service in October 
2021. Anything past this point will need to form the subject of a separate complaint, 
which I understand has since been registered with L&G and Mr and Mr J await a 
response. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs J. But having considered the 
handling of the claim by L&G and its intermediaries up until October 2021, I dont think the 
insurer has done anything substantially wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman