DRN-3124370
The complaint
Mr L is complaining AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company (AXA) hasnt settled a 
claim he made on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy provided by AXA. The policy covered 
his business and enabled him and two other named drivers to drive his personal vehicle. He 
toom the policy out through a broker. 
Mr Ls mother  a named driver on the policy  was involved in an incident with a third 
partys vehicle whereby the third partys vehicle drove into Mr Ls cars open door. Mr L says 
the third party admitted liability at the scene, but later retracted that when he called to ask 
her to pay for the damage.
Mr L then contacted AXA to discuss the damage. He said he told AXA he didnt think he 
could claim because he thought he only had third party, fire and theft (TPFT) cover. But he 
says AXA told him he had comprehensive cover, so he looked to claim for the damage. AXA 
said it would settle the claim by paying him the cars market value, less its excess. It valued 
the vehicle at £6,000. And it wrote to him to confirm this offer. Mr L later said hed like to 
keep the cars salvage. So AXA reduced its offer to £4,250. However, when it went to pay 
this to Mr L, it realised he did only have TPFT cover. So it said Mr L wasnt covered for this 
loss. However, it acknowledged Mr L would have suffered some distress and inconvenience 
as a result of this mis-information. So it offered him £250 in compensation. Mr L didnt accept 
this as he felt AXA should honour its offer to pay him £4,250.
Mr L is also unhappy AXA chose to settle the third partys claim on a without prejudiced 
basis. He maintains his mother wasnt at fault for the incident and that the third party 
admitted liability. He said he didnt give AXA permission to settle the claim. AXA said it was 
entitled to do so and it thought his mother would be held at fault for the accident.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think AXA was bound to its offer 
and he highlighted that Mr L, by his own admission, was aware the policy only had TPFT 
cover. However he didnt think £250 was sufficient compensation for initially telling Mr L he 
was covered for the loss, so he thought AXA should increase its compensation offer to £500. 
He also said AXA had settled the claim on a without prejudice basis, so he said this meant 
Mr L was free to pursue the claim against the third party privately if he wished to do so.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion and ask for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised Mr Ls complaint in far less detail that hes set out. I 
assure both Mr L and AXA that I have considered everything theyve provided. But in this 
decision Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points. I dont mean any discourtesy 
by this, but this simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
It seems to me there are two points for me to consider in this complaint:
1. Is AXA bound by its offer to settle the claim; and
2. Was it fair for AXA to hold Mr Ls mother liable for the accident and settle the third partys 
claim?
I shall consider each point separately.
Should AXA pay the claim in full?
Theres no dispute the terms of the policy doesnt cover the damage to Mr Ls car because 
he was only covered for TPFT. Its also not disputed AXA told him a number of times he was 
covered for the loss as he had comprehensive cover. But this doesnt mean its bound by the 
letter it sent Mr L saying it would settle the claim. Where a business does something wrong, 
it should put Mr L in the position hed be in had it not made the mistake it did  i.e. what 
would have happened had AXA told Mr L he couldnt claim at the start. 
In this case, Mr L was never covered for the loss under the terms of the policy. AXA should 
have explained this at the start. But I havent seen anything to show Mr L has significantly 
lost out as a result of this. I note hes said he bought a replacement car because AXA told 
him it would settle the claim. But his car wasnt repairable, so I think its likely he would have 
looked to replace it regardless of whether AXA settled the claim or not. So I dont think I can 
hold AXA liable for this.
I also note Mr L has highlighted AXA initially sent insurance documents saying he had a fully 
comprehensive policy. But I can also see it informed his broker on the same day it had made 
a mistake and reissued new documents explained he only had TPFT cover. So it corrected 
this mistake straight away. And Mr L has told us he was aware he only had TPFT cover. So 
Im not persuaded he has lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong here.
Ultimately, while clearly AXA shouldnt have said it would settle the claim, it doesnt mean it 
should now do so. So I dont think its required to settle the claim as if Mr L had fully 
comprehensive insurance. That said, I accept this matter will have caused him a lot of 
distress and inconvenience  being frequently told his claim was being settled and would 
receive £4,250 and his damaged car back, but then having that offer rescinded. The 
investigator thought AXA should pay £500 in compensation. And I think this is in line with 
what I would have awarded, so I think its fair.
Liability for the accident
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos at fault for causing an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at whether AXA has carried out a 
fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mr Ls policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed AXA to conduct in the Insureds 
[Mr L] name or of such person the defence or settlement of any claim or to prosecute in the 
name of the Insured or of such person for its own benefit any claim for indemnity or 
damages or otherwise and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in 
the settlement of any claim. Nothing in this condition shall give the Insured the right to 
require the Company to pursue such recovery. So AXA was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thought fit. And it had the 
ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim. I note Mr L says he didnt give AXA permission 
to settle the claim. But it didnt need Mr Ls permission to settle the claim as the policy 
allowed AXA to do so. However it needed to exercise this right fairly and reasonably, taking 
into account everything both parties had provided.
The circumstances of the incident are that the third party drove into Mr Ls open door. Mr L 
says his mother checked the path was clear when she opened the door and was partially out 
of the car by the time the third party collided with the door. He also says the third party 
admitted liability for the incident at the scene. The third party says his mother opened the 
door into the path of their correctly proceeding vehicle.
AXA says it thought Mr Ls mother would be held at fault for the accident. It said the third 
party was correctly proceeding down the road and it thought, on balance, its likely his 
mother would be found to have opened the door into the path of the third partys correctly 
proceeding vehicle.
As I said above, its not my role to say whether Mr Ls mother was at fault for the accident or 
not, but I need to look at whether AXA has considered all the evidence before it came to the 
conclusion it did. Im satisfied it did consider everything Mr L has said before it came to the 
conclusion it did. I also note it settled the claim on a without prejudice basis, which means 
Mr L is still free to pursue the claim directly should he wish to do so. Ultimately Im satisfied it 
acted fairly and reasonably in deciding to settle the third partys claim in the way it did.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company to increase its compensation offer to 
£500. It should pay this directly to Mr L if it hasnt done so already. I dont award anything 
further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman