DRN-2272139
The complaint
Miss W says Freemans Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI taken out in 2005 to cover a catalogue shopping account. 
The adjudicator did not recommend this complaint should be upheld. Miss W disagreed so
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Freemans had to make it clear the policy was optional and Miss W had to agree to take it 
out. Miss W says she wasnt given a choice, it was added without her knowledge. Miss W 
has also explained that she would not have called Freemans after taking out the account to 
take the policy. Freemans has shown the PPI was added to Miss Ws account the month 
after it was setup, following a telephone call. Freemans doesnt have the call recording but 
thats not unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. 
I cant know for certain what was said during the call when the PPI was sold. But I have seen 
copies of call scripts from around that time which Freemans says its staff would have used 
when selling PPI. Based on what we know about the way Freemans sold PPI, I think its 
most likely that the Freemans representative followed that script. The script makes it clear 
that the representative had to obtain Miss Ws permission to add the PPI to her account.
Considering the script and that the policy was added to the account after it was setup, I think 
its most likely Miss W would have known that she didnt need to take out the policy, and she 
chose to have it.
Freemans didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss W got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Freemans gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Miss W has told us she cant recall what level of sick pay she would have 
been entitled to at the time, or the amount she had in savings. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay she might have received, and protected her savings 
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about what Miss W has said, that she wouldnt have taken the policy out after 
taking the account. But as Ive explained above, the evidence shows a call took place and 
the policy was added. So, I think the policy was added to the account as a result of what was 
discussed during the call.
Which means Freemans doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman