DRN-3202569
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about HSBC UK Bank Plcs actions when a payment was blocked. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr T arranged a transfer of savings to another bank via HSBC. But the 
payment was picked up by HSBCs fraud prevention systems for further checks. HSBC says 
it unsuccessfully tried to call Mr and Mrs T around half an hour later to check the payment. 
Mr T called HSBC around an hour after the payment was blocked. During the call, HSBC 
checked details of the payment Mr T wanted to make. Mr T confirmed the details were 
correct and that he was sending savings to another bank. The advisor confirmed HSBC 
could release the payment on Mr Ts approval but wouldnt be responsible for any losses. 
Mr T didnt give his approval and instead asked to speak with a manager. A call back within 
one to three hours was agreed. 
Mr T has told us he didnt receive the call back as promised. And despite trying to speak with 
the fraud team later in the day, it was closed so Mr T wasnt able to arrange for the payment 
to be made. HSBC has explained it reversed the payment and placed a temporary block on 
the online banking facility. 
The following day, HSBC spoke to Mr T and arranged for the account block to be removed 
and payment sent. 
A complaint was raised and HSBC issued a final response in November 2020. HSBC didnt 
agree it had made a mistake by holding the payment for further checks. But HSBC 
apologised for the service provided and paid Mr and Mrs T £75. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought HSBC had dealt with Mr and Mrs Ts complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
do anything else. 
Mr T asked to appeal and said he thought the call handler he initially spoke with was nave 
and inexperienced. Mr T also said despite offering a 24 hour telephone line, the fraud team 
was unavailable when he called back. As Mr T asked to appeal, the case has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
HSBC has provided systems notes that show the payment Mr T instructed was picked up for 
fraud checks before it could be authorised. Whilst I agree that caused a degree of 
inconvenience, HSBCs account terms allow it to take that step where theres a concern 
about fraud. I appreciate the payment was entirely genuine, but Im satisfied HSBC was 
seeking to verify that when it blocked the payment. 
Mr T has told us he feels the first call handler was nave and inexperienced. Ive listened to 
the call but I thought the call handler was polite and professional. The call handler wasnt 
aware of the bank Mr T confirmed the payment was being sent to. But the call handler 
checked the details of the payment Mr T wanted to make and confirmed it could be released 
on his approval. 
It was when the call handler explained that HSBC wouldnt take any responsibility for a loss 
if Mr T confirmed the payment details as genuine that he asked to speak with a manager. As 
Mr T didnt confirm the call handler could proceed, I dont agree it made a mistake by failing 
to release the payment during the first call. 
Mr T called back later that day but the fraud department was closed. As the investigator has 
said, we cant tell a business how to operate. Whilst HSBC may have some telephone 
services available around the clock, that doesnt mean all departments within the bank must 
remain open. And I think its reasonable to note Mr T was able to speak with the fraud team 
the following day and arrange for the payment to be released. I havent been persuaded 
Mr and Mrs T were unreasonably inconvenienced, although I agree the call handler shouldnt 
have promised a managers call back within three hours. 
The call back didnt happen until the next day. HSBC has apologised for the service provided 
and paid Mr and Mrs T £75. I can see the delay in contacting Mr T did cause some 
frustration. But I think £75 fairly reflects the impact of the delay on Mr and Mrs T. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service considers the individual circumstances of a complaint 
and the impact of the issues raised on the consumers. Whilst I can see there was a delay of 
a day in sending the payment, Im satisfied there were genuine reasons for HSBC to 
complete further checks. I agree that there was a delay in contacting Mr T, but Im satisfied 
the £75 settlement HSBC has paid fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, but as Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with their 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to increase the award of take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman