DRN-4380202
The complaint
Mr H complains about Vitality Health Limiteds handling of his private medical insurance 
claim for dental treatment. 
What happened
Mr H holds private medical insurance cover with Vitality through his employer. He broke his 
tooth after a fall, and his dentist carried out a repair the following day (by using a composite 
filling material). 
Mr H sent Vitality a copy of the invoice and told it that hed had emergency treatment. He 
asked how he could claim for this. Vitality responded to say the claim had been dealt with as 
restorative dental treatment, and settled it on that basis. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Vitality hadnt done 
enough to explain how Mr H could make a claim for emergency treatment. She 
recommended that Vitality pay Mr H £100 compensation.
Vitality accepted our investigators findings, but Mr H did not. The matter has therefore been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy sets out whats covered for dental treatment. It says that for dental procedures 
such as fillings, crowns and root treatment, it will pay 80% of the costs (up to £400 per plan 
year). It also says that for treatment by a dentist following an accidental dental injury, it will 
pay up to £2,500 per claim.
The policy definition of a dental accident is a sudden unforeseen external blow to the 
face, teeth and jaws which occurs at an identifiable place and time and results in an injury to 
your teeth and gums.
Vitality dealt with Mr Hs claim as a dental procedure rather than a dental accident. Thats 
because his dentists invoice said he had a filling. Although Mr H explained that hed broken 
his tooth and had treatment for an accidental dental injury, he didnt say this happened as a 
result of a fall. So I can understand why Vitality settled the claim in the way it did based on 
this evidence. However, Vitality didnt give Mr H sufficient opportunity to explain what had 
happened. He asked how to claim for emergency treatment, and Vitality didnt send him a 
claim form or give him any guidance on this.  
I see that Vitality has since apologised to Mr H and confirmed the claim should have been 
registered as an emergency instead of restorative treatment. It gave him the relevant claim 
form so he could provide it with the evidence it needed from his dentist in order to assess the 
claim. I think that was reasonable. 
Mr H has explained how inconvenienced he has been by the matter. Ive noted Mr Hs 
references to our website which gives some guidance on when we might award 
compensation. As hes noted, our website says we might award between £100 to £300 
where there have been repeated small errors or a larger single mistake, requiring a 
reasonable effort to sort out. Im satisfied that the inconvenience caused to Mr H would fall 
within this band. I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator recognises 
the inconvenience he was caused by Vitalitys failure to tell him how to claim for an 
accidental injury. 
Mr H says that Vitalitys previous settlement of the claim as a dental procedure meant he 
couldnt claim in full for further dental treatment that policy year (as the settlement meant he 
had reached the £400 policy limit). Its not clear if Vitality has now accepted that Mr Hs claim 
should be settled as an accidental injury rather than dental procedure, but if it has, he should 
raise his concerns with Vitality about this in the first instance. If it cant resolve matters for 
him, he can bring a new complaint to this Service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr H 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman