DRN-3826105
The complaint
Mr D complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D bought a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
IPA for a trip with departure and return dates of 12 May 2022 and 19 May 2022 
respectively. 
Mr D says that after boarding his return flight on 18 May 2022, he broke his tooth. He 
sought dental treatment on his return to the UK on 19 May 2022 and his dentist 
recommended he had a crown fitted. 
Mr D made a claim against his policy. IPA declined the claim. It said that Mr Ds 
treatment took place in his home area, so what happened here wasnt covered by the 
policy. Mr D didnt accept that and pursued his complaint. He says that as the accident 
which led to the claim occurred outside his home area and given the particular 
circumstances here  he had boarded his return flight  he had no option but to return to 
the UK and seek treatment. 
IPA maintained its position about the claim but paid Mr D compensation of £125 in 
relation to service issues. Mr D pursued his complaint about IPA having declined his 
claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. The investigator referred to an 
exclusion in the policy in relation to expenses incurred after returning home. The 
investigator thought that IPAs offer of compensation of £125 in relation to service issues 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his complaint isnt about IPAs delay 
in dealing with his claim but is about its decision to decline his claim. Mr D said that he 
was in a no-win situation as he stayed on the plane and his dental costs incurred on his 
return home arent covered but if hed disembarked, sought dental treatment at his 
destination and incurred additional accommodation and flight costs, those costs wouldnt 
be covered either. He said that the terms of the policy are ambiguous and IPA should be 
clear about what someone should do in the situation in which he found himself or explain 
that cover stops when a policyholder boards the return flight. 
The investigator considered what Mr D said but didnt change his view. Mr D asked that 
an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Section B  Emergency medical and other expenses
This is not private medical insurance
What is covered
We will pay you up to £20,000,000 for the following expenses which are medically 
necessary to treat a medical emergency [] during a trip [] as a result of you suffering 
unforeseen bodily injury []:
2. Emergency dental treatment for the immediate relief of pain (to natural teeth only) up to a 
limit of £1,000 incurred outside of your home area. []
What is not covered
[]
i. Any expenses incurred after you have returned to your home area.
[]
Home area for Mr D is the UK.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr Ds complaint because I dont think that IPA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls 
under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
Mr Ds claim is for expenses incurred in the UK. So, its not covered by the policy. And 
theres a specific exclusion for expenses incurred after return to the home area. Its 
common in policies like the one here for insurers to cover only the costs of emergency 
treatment whilst on a trip, not treatment in the home area. Mr Ds policy is a travel 
insurance policy not private medical insurance. I dont think that IPA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relying on the terms and conditions of the policy and declining the 
claim. 
I appreciate that Mr Ds injury occurred whilst on his trip but that doesnt alter the 
outcome here. It remains the case that his claim relates to the cost of treatment in his 
home area, so its not covered  by the policy. 
I dont think its helpful to address claims that might arise in different scenarios as Im 
dealing with the claim Mr D actually made and which IPA declined, not a claim he 
might have made in different circumstances.  I dont agree that the terms of the policy are ambiguous. Ive set out relevant extracts 
from the policy above. Its clear that the policy doesnt cover costs incurred in Mr Ds 
home area. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman