DRN-3731534
The complaint
Mr J complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) is acting unfairly by asking 
him to repay lending it provided for the purchase of goods which he didnt receive.
What happened
Mr J has a credit facility with JDW which allows him to purchase goods and services from it. 
In January 2021 he used the facility to purchase a dishwasher.
He later told JDW that the dishwasher hadnt been delivered. JDW said it had evidence that 
the goods had been both delivered and installed.
Mr J raised a complaint about what had happened, but JDW maintained its position and 
gave Mr J referral rights to this service.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by the evidence JDW provided that the goods had been 
delivered to Mr J. So, they didnt think it was fair for JDW to ask Mr J to repay the lending. 
They also said that JDW had given Mr J conflicting information about the whereabouts of the 
goods, so it ought to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset he was caused.
JDW disagreed with our investigators recommendations, so the case was passed to me to 
decide what should happen. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint, in summary, I said;
Mr Js complaint is about a whether or not JDW is acting fairly in relation to a running credit 
account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. As its a regulated agreement, its one 
which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. That is, so far as the 
complaint arises from JDW carrying on an activity specified under our rules.
Broadly speaking, our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook) say that we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction 
as long the complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified.
JDW has acted in two different capacities in dealing with Mr J. Firstly, its provided a 
regulated credit agreement, and we have the power to consider complaints about that. 
However, its also acted as the retailer of goods and services. Thats not something which 
our rules allow me to consider a complaint about.
Whether or not Mr J was provided with the goods he ordered from the retailer is not a 
complaint about JDW carrying on a regulated activity, or an activity specified by our rules 
under DISP 2.3.1R. Its a retail issue. As a result, Im satisfied we have no power to consider 
that point of Mr Js complaint.
I can consider whether or not JDW has administered the account fairly insofar as; whether 
its acted fairly by asking Mr J to repay the lending it provided given what he says happened.
Mr Js agreement sets out that JDW would provide lending for certain purchases and also 
the terms on which Mr J would be required to repay that lending. The agreement doesnt 
suggest that Mr J need not repay the lending in the event that he has issues with the service 
provided by the retailer, for example, in the case that he disputes that the goods were 
delivered.
I dont think theres any obligation or expectation for JDW to cease pursuit of the outstanding 
lending, even taking into account the issues Mr J has raised. Its also clear that theres a 
dispute between Mr J and JDW as to whether the goods were delivered. So, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to conclude that JDW is acting unfairly in continuing to pursue the 
debt in those circumstances.
Given the above, I find that JDW has acted fairly by asking Mr J to repay the lending it 
provided him for the purchase of a dishwasher. As Mr Js complaint about missing goods 
isnt a point I think we can consider, I dont think itd be appropriate to require JDW to pay Mr 
J compensation  as our investigator did  for its handling of the matter.
Both parties acknowledged the provisional decision, so the case has now been passed back 
to me to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided what I consider to be any materially new evidence in relation to 
this case. As a result, I find no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision and I therefore now make those findings final.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman