DRN-2503074
The complaint
Mr G complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was damaged in an accident and Admiral declared it to be beyond economical 
repair. It made Mr G an offer in settlement of his claim which it said was the cars market 
value. Mr G thought this was too low, and Admiral increased its offer to £12,364, less the 
policy excess. But Mr G remained unhappy as hed found similar cars advertised for higher 
prices and he thought Admiral hadnt taken into account the cars many optional extras. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had valued Mr Gs car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. She 
thought it had offered more than the average of the valuations provided by the trade guides. 
She thought optional extras wouldnt always increase a cars valuation. And she didnt think 
advertised prices were a reliable way to value the car.
Mr G replied that he thought the cars optional extras would increase its valuation. He asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr G feels frustrated by Admirals decision as he paid extra for a car 
with so many optional extras, but they havent increased its valuation. I can understand that 
he wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. 
Admiral offered Mr G a settlement for the market value of his car, as defined in the policys 
terms and conditions. The investigator has explained this services approach to car 
valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. 
I can see that she checked the trade guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, 
mileage and condition as Mr Gs car, and she took into account its optional extras. These 
didnt increase the cars valuation. I dont think this is unusual with used cars. 
Mr G said hed seen similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The average of the valuations the investigator found was less than the offer Admiral made to 
Mr G. So I cant say that Admirals offer was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require it to 
increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman