DRN-3999267
The complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) caused unnecessary delays in 
processing his application to take his pension benefits.
What happened
Mr T had a pension plan with Phoenix. In November 2021, as he had passed his normal 
retirement age, he contacted Phoenix and asked for a retirement pack as he wanted to take 
his benefits.
He completed the form and asked Phoenix to ascertain if hed be entitled to an enhanced 
level of tax-free cash (TFC). These forms were received by Phoenix but due to an error, this 
was only progressed when Mr T contacted it on 9 February 2022 asking for an update.
Phoenix wrote to Mr T asking for some further information, which he obtained. But when he 
tried to email this to Phoenix on 21 March 2022 and again on 30 March 2022 Phoenix were 
unable to open this. So, he was asked to send the information by post. He did so by 
recorded delivery and received confirmation that it had been signed for on 1 April 2022.
Mr T called on 12 April 2022 for an update, but Phoenix were unable to find the document. It 
was only found and scanned into its systems on 21 April 2022. So Mr T complained to 
Phoenix about the delays and the fact that the letter hed sent by recorded delivery couldnt 
be found.
Phoenix called Mr T on 22 April 2022 and told him he was entitled to 25% of the fund value 
as TFC. Phoenix explained the plan would have to be revalued, and he agreed he wished to 
cash in the plan.
On 27 May 2022 Phoenix responded to Mr Ts complaint. It apologised that his recorded 
delivery letter had gone missing. It confirmed his cash-in forms had been received on 19 
May 2022 and said it was calculating an up-to-date value. It agreed it had caused 
unnecessary delays between 31 December 2021 and 9 February 2022, and again between 
1 April 2022 and 21 April 2022. It offered to pay Mr T £10 to cover the cost of the recorded 
delivery, and £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused. It also said it would consider the 
impact of the delays it had caused and would send Mr T details of its calculation once it had 
been completed. 
On 2 June 2022 Phoenix paid £21,637.40 to Mr T to reflect the value of his pension plan, 
including his entitlement to 25% TFC.
On 24 June 2022 Mr T brought his complaint to our Service. He said he was unhappy with 
how Phoenix handled his pension cash-in. He also questioned whether hed lost out from the 
delays Phoenix had caused, as the amount he had been paid was the same as the figure 
quoted in November 2021.
Our Investigator asked Phoenix to show how it had calculated the cost to Mr T caused by the 
delays, and whether any interest had been offered to him to reflect the time hed been 
without the funds he was due. But Phoenix didnt respond, despite being chased.
On 20 January 2023 our Investigator wrote to Mr T and Phoenix with the outcome of his 
investigation. He thought Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He agreed with the periods of 
delay Phoenix had identified and calculated that this amounted to a total of 41 working days, 
meaning that Mr T had received the value of his pension later than he shouldve.
In order to put Mr T back into the position he wouldve been had the delays not occurred, our 
Investigator set out what he thought Phoenix should do. 
But Phoenix didnt respond to this, so as no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator. I think this complaint should be upheld and 
Phoenix should undertake a calculation to establish if Mr T has suffered a financial loss as a 
result of its delays. And if a loss is identified, it should pay him compensation to reflect this. 
Ill explain.
Phoenix has looked at what happened and identified two periods when it caused avoidable 
delays. These were between 31 December 2021 and 9 February 2022, and again between 1 
April 2022 and 21 April 2022. And having looked closely at the timeline of events, I agree 
with this assessment. These dates amounted to a total of 41 working days. So in effect Mr T 
received the value of his pension 41 working days later than he shouldve. 
When Phoenix wrote to Mr T on 10 November 2021, it said his pension had an estimated 
value of £30,055.91, but this value was not guaranteed. In this letter it also said that this 
value meant Mr T would be entitled to a net cash-in value of £21,637.40. 
But I can see this was an estimated value, which was a reflection of the value of Mr Ts 
pension at that time. These values vary in response to fluctuations in the financial markets, 
which is why they cant be guaranteed.
Given the effect market fluctuations usually have on pension funds, it wouldve been fair to 
obtain an up-to-date valuation once Phoenix had received all the information it required to 
complete the cash-in request. This would mean Mr T would receive a payment which 
reflected the value of his fund at that time, and this may have been higher or lower than the 
estimated value hed received in November 2021.
Phoenix received Mr Ts cash-in application on 19 May 2022. This was the final instruction to 
Phoenix from Mr T and confirmed that he wanted to receive the full value of his pension, 
minus any tax that needed to be deducted. So, I wouldve expected Phoenix to obtain a 
value on this, or more likely the following working day. And this would be the value that 
would be used to establish what should be paid to Mr T. 
But I cant see that this happened. I say this because the amount Mr T actually received in 
June 2022 was exactly the same amount that Phoenix had estimated in November 2021. 
And given his pension fund was exposed to market fluctuations during this time, I find it 
unlikely that the two values wouldve been exactly the same. I think its more likely that a 
new calculation wasnt carried out, and I think it shouldve been.Putting things right
Phoenix has offered Mr T £210 compensation for the trouble and upset its delays caused 
him. This included £10 to refund the cost of Mr T sending information by recorded delivery. 
In terms of compensation for the impact of Phoenixs delays and service issues, I agree with 
the investigator that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see Mr T was 
frustrated with his experiences with Phoenix, but this level of compensation is broadly in line 
with the approach taken by our service.
However, to settle this complaint fairly I want to ensure Mr T is in the position he ought to 
have been in had the delays not occurred. And to do this Phoenix needs to recalculate the 
value of Mr Ts pension fund. Ill explain how I want it to do this.
As Ive said above, Phoenix ought to have calculated the value of Mr Ts pension fund, at the 
latest, on the day after it received his final instruction. So, this wouldve been 20 May 2022. 
But as has been accepted, Phoenix caused delays of 41 working days up to this point. So, if 
the delays hadnt occurred, it is a fair assumption that Mr T wouldve been able to send, and 
Phoenix receive, the final cash-in application 41 working days earlier, 21 March 2021.
So, to put things right, Phoenix should do the following:
Calculate what the value Mr Ts pension fund wouldve been on 21 March 2022. 
(Value A)
Compare this value to what it said Mr Ts pension was worth (Value B), which 
resulted in a net payment to Mr T on 2 June 2022 of £21,637.40.
If Value A is greater than Value B, then the difference (Value C) is what Mr T has 
lost, and appropriate compensation is due. 
Mr T wouldve been entitled to receive 25% of Value C as TFC, with the remainder 
being taxed at his marginal rate, 20%. This tax calculation should be carried out and 
the appropriate deduction made (Value D).
If a loss is identified Mr T has been unfairly deprived of these funds, so 8% simple 
interest should be added to Value D, calculated from 21 March 2022 to the date of 
settlement. This is the amount to be paid to Mr T.
In addition to the calculation above, pay Mr T £210, if it hasnt already done so, to 
reflect the distress, inconvenience and expense hes been caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Phoenix Life Limited to settle the complaint in the manner 
directed, and pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman