The complaint
Mr C makes a number of complaints about TSB Bank plc following an attempt to view his 
pending transactions on his account.
What happened
Mr C checked his account on 30 April 2018 for pending transactions and could see there 
were none. He withdrew £100 from his account and thought he had enough money in his 
account to pay for the direct debits due in the next few days. Mr C says he noticed on 1 
May 2018 that there were pending transactions which would mean his account would be 
over the overdraft limit. He says his standing order for his rent wasn't paid and then spent 
some time trying to speak to TSB about what had happened. Mr C says he was caused 
stress by what took place and says he would like compensation of £10,000. He says TSB 
ignored his complaint but accepts the rent payment was made when he attended a branch.
TSB has told us that it thought it had resolved the complaint when it spoke to Mr C in 2018 
but accepts there was a delay in responding to his letter. It accepts it had problems in 
April 2018 that meant customers couldn't view their account balance and pending 
transactions and says that position was not ideal. TSB says it appreciates Mr C's concerns 
and has apologised for the upset and inconvenience he was caused. It says it appreciates 
why Mr C thought it was ignoring him and his letters, and says it provided poor service and 
will pay compensation.
Mr C had already brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall that TSB 
didn't need to pay any further compensation on top of the refund for call costs it had paid. 
The investigator accepted the pending transactions were not visible but thought Mr C ought 
to have been aware of them and the money available in his account. The investigator 
thought Mr C's rent had been paid and TSB wasn't responsible for a direct debit taken on a 
different date.
Mr C doesn't accept that view and says there has been no apology but accepts that his 
request for £10,000 compensation is unrealistic. He says he was caused stress by TSB's 
systems upgrade.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that TSB ought to pay 
compensation to Mr C for what took place.
I looked at Mr C's accounts statements and could see why he would have checked for the 
pending transactions in April 2018. As I thought it likely he knew that he had a very limited 
amount of money that he may have been able to withdraw before his rent was due as well as 
DRN-2022051other direct debits. So I accepted that he relied on the information he was given by TSB 
about the pending transactions and withdrew the £100. I didn't think Mr C would have made 
that withdrawal if the information about the pending transactions was accurate and I thought 
that led to the problems Mr C experienced. I appreciated what the investigator said that Mr 
C ought to have been aware of the transactions himself as this was his account. But I 
thought that he was entitled to rely on the information given to him by TSB.
I said I appreciated that Mr C spent some time trying to speak to TSB about what had 
happened and that he attended a branch where his rent was paid. I thought Mr C was 
caused distress and inconvenience and appreciated why he would think that his complaint 
had been ignored.
I accepted there may have been some confusion about the outcome of the call between the 
parties in 2018. But I would have expected TSB to have responded in writing to Mr C and 
explained what had taken place and why. I could see that TSB now accepts Mr C was 
unable to see the pending transactions and says it appreciates Mr C's concerns and the 
upset he was caused. I also said that I could see that TSB wished to apologise to Mr C and 
was prepared to offer compensation for what took place.
I didn't think Mr C  suffered a significant financial loss as his rent was paid and TSB paid his 
call costs. But I accepted he was caused distress and inconvenience. So I thought TSB 
should pay £150 compensation for what took place. I thought that award fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Both Mr C and TSB have responded to my provisional decision and are happy with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
I intend to order TSB to pay £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr C £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman