DRN-3042330
The complaint and what happened
Mr and Mrs W complain about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has handled a 
claim made under their home insurance policy when there was an escape of water in their 
bathroom. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr and Mrs W suffered an escape of water in an en-suite bathroom. Mrs W submitted 
a claim in October 2020 which was accepted. 
The damage was reviewed. It was determined that drying out of the property wasnt 
required and that carpets and other fixtures and fittings could be repaired and didnt 
need replacing. 
Contractors were hired to carry out repair works.  But Mr and Mrs W werent happy 
with how repairs were progressing and alleged the contractor had damaged part of 
their bathroom floor when mistakenly cutting a hole in it. Following that Mr and Mrs W 
declined entry to the contractors and so Lloyds offered a cash settlement instead. 
Mr and Mrs W arent happy with the cash settlement as they say they cant get 
repairs done for the amount settled. They also complain that Lloyds didnt 
communicate with them enough or in the way needed.  
Lloyds didnt uphold their complaint, and neither did our investigator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Lloyds accepted Mr and Mrs W had a valid claim under the terms of the policy. And 
the policy terms allow Lloyds to carry out repairs, replace items if they are 
unrepairable or cash settle a claim.
Lloyds initially arranged repairs, and ordinarily we would find it fair for an insurer to 
continue with those repairs rather than change part-way through a claim to a cash 
settlement. However, I note here that Mr W and Mrs W refused entry to the 
contractors to finish repairs. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy as they say the contractors caused further damage to 
their bathroom  namely a hole was cut into their bathroom floor when it shouldnt 
have been.  We have been informed, and I accept, this hole was cut as the flooring in 
that area was wet from the leak.  I wouldnt expect a competent contractor to leave 
wet boarding in place, as that could cause further damage or other problems later on, 
such as damp. I therefore dont find the contractors caused damage per se  rather it 
was part of the repair process. 
As repair work had started, its clear Lloyds was willing to repair the damage.  In such 
circumstances, our general approach is that its fair for any cash settlement to be 
representative of the cost to the insurer rather than what it might cost the 
policyholder. Insurers will have access to a network of contractors they use for 
insurance repairs and because of the amount of work provided will often mean the 
cost is discounted.  As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs W had the option of repairs, and as 
they refused for those repairs to continue (because they refused entry to the 
contractors), I find it was fair for Lloyds to cash settle instead based on the cost to it. 
Mr and Mrs W havent provided persuasive evidence the amount offered wasnt 
representative of the cost to Lloyds. And Im mindful there was a £500 excess which 
applied also. 
Mrs W says the bathroom didnt look right. Im not quite sure what Mrs W means by 
this, until work is completed a bathroom wouldnt look right. And Lloyds didnt get to 
complete the bathroom. I understand Mrs W was concerned about the tiles and 
flooring, particularly what would happen to those when skirting was removed. But I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence that tiles or flooring were actually affected by 
the removal of skirting, such that Lloyds ought fairly to have included an amount for 
that in its settlement, over and above what was already included.     
Mrs W isnt happy that the sink was left outside for a number of months. However, 
the information provided shows that Mr and Mrs W were looking to replace the 
bathroom sink and Lloyds were willing to offer 50% toward the labour cost to install 
the new replacement. I find that fair. In the event, I understand the sink was 
undamaged, which Mrs W hasnt disputed and so Im satisfied this could have been 
refitted if Mr and Mrs W had changed their mind. But as Lloyds cash settled, that is 
now a matter for Mr and Mrs W to sort if they havent already done so. 
Finally, I note that Mrs W is unhappy with the service provided by her personal claim 
consultant, particularly in relation to communication. However, I can see that on 
many occasions the consultant tried calling and was unable to get through, but this 
was generally followed by email. I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude there were any avoidable delays or inappropriate communication with     
Mrs W. I therefore make no award for this.   
   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman