DRN-2977928
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) handled his 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy, and with the quality of the refurbished phone 
he got back.
What happened
Briefly, Mr H made a claim under his policy for a damaged phone. He sent the handset to 
Assurant which declared it beyond economical repair (BER). Assurant replaced the handset 
in line with the terms of the policy.
Immediately on receipt, Mr H reported to Assurant that the phone was damaged. It 
completed a doorstep exchange. When Assurant followed up with Mr H, he said the phone 
battery drained quickly. A few weeks later he told Assurant the phone was faulty. On both 
occasions, Assurant offered to inspect it under the warranty, but Mr H didnt want to send it 
back and be without a phone again.
Mr H called Assurant back and accepted its offer of a doorstep exchange. Although Assurant 
made the offer in error, it completed the exchange. 
After looking into Mr Hs complaint, Assurant paid him £50 by way of apology for the first 
(damaged) replacement. But it didnt think there was anything else to put right.
 
Our investigator didnt think Assurant had handled the claim well and she recommended 
further compensation of £100. 
Assurant didnt agree and thought its compensation payment of £50 was fair.
Then, I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Ive provisionally decided not to 
uphold his complaint. The details of the claim arent in dispute, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my provisional decision.
There was [a] small delay before Assurant confirmed to Mr H that his phone was BER, but it 
sent a replacement handset promptly afterwards. I think its reasonable to expect some 
delay before getting the phone back in situations such as this, so I dont think Assurant did 
anything wrong here.
The phone arrived damaged. Assurant arranged a doorstep exchange to limit the time Mr H 
would be inconvenienced, and it paid £50 compensation. Its unlikely that Assurant wouldve 
sent an already damaged phone  its more likely it was damaged during transit. So, I think 
Assurants prompt replacement and compensation of £50 for the inconvenience of being 
without a phone for a day or two is fair under the circumstances. I dont think Assurant needs 
to do any more in respect of this issue.
When Assurant contacted Mr H a few days later, he said the battery wasnt working well. 
Later, he reported that the phone was faulty. On each occasion, he declined a further 
inspection under the warranty. While I understand Mr H didnt want to be without his phone 
again, theres little Assurant can do without access to the phone, and a doorstep 
replacement wasnt provided for under the policy. For that reason, I cant fairly hold Assurant 
responsible for the delay leading up to the next replacement.
When Mr H called again about his faulty phone, Assurant arranged a doorstep exchange in 
error. Assurant hasnt denied this was a mistake, and outside the terms of the policy, but it 
seems to me that Mr H has benefited from its mistake. Instead of a repair under the warranty 
and being without his phone, Mr H received another replacement. I cant see that he lost out 
because of Assurants mistake on this issue so I dont think it needs to compensate him.
In summary, while I can see that Mr H hasnt had the best experience with his claim, 
Assurant provided a replacement phone under the policy terms and paid him £50 
compensation. Mr H was without a fully functioning phone for a relatively short time, some of 
which can be reasonably expected, and some because he didnt want to send it for repair 
again. I think Assurant has put matters right by paying £50 compensation and replacing the 
faulty handset. From the evidence available, I see no reason to ask Assurant to pay any 
more compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Assurant accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman