DRN-4239507
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Haven Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had an accident in which his van was damaged. He claimed on his motor insurance 
policy with Haven. 
Havens engineers concluded, based on photos of the van, that it was a write-off. Mr B 
disputed this. He told Haven that he wanted to keep the van, which hed only had for a few 
months, and get it repaired. And he said his own repairer had told him it could repair the van 
for £7,000 to £8,000. 
Four days after the accident, in view of Mr Bs wish to have the van repaired, Haven 
instructed engineers to carry out a physical inspection of the van. The engineers provided a 
detailed report a few days later. They concluded that the van was a Category S write-off and 
estimated that it would cost around £14,000 to repair, with parts alone costing more than 
£9,000. Haven considered that it was uneconomical to repair the van, and offered Mr B 
£19,500 in settlement of his claim, based on a pre-accident value of £21,100, less the policy 
excess of £600. Mr B wasnt satisfied with this. 
Mr B complained to Haven about its handling of his claim. He said Haven had told him that if 
he paid for a temporary vehicle himself, the van could be repaired. Haven would let the 
garage know, and hed pay the £600 excess once the repairs were complete. But when he 
contacted the recovery agent to ask where his van was going, he was told it hadnt heard 
anything from Haven. And on contacting Haven again he was told his van had been written 
off. He told Haven he required it to release the van so that it could be repaired by his own 
repairer. 
Haven released the van so that Mr B could have it inspected and repaired by his own 
garage. The van arrived at Mr Bs chosen repairer 16 days after the accident, and the 
following day, Haven sent an interim authority for it to carry out the repairs. Haven said there 
was no need to supplement the assessment until the repairs were fully completed, at which 
point a fully costed assessment with images should be sent to Haven and would be 
authorised by return. 
Mr B says the van was eventually repaired. But hes told us he paid more than £3,000 to hire 
a van to use in the interim. He says this was in spite of the fact that Haven told him that if his 
van was repairable, hed be given a hire van for the duration of the repairs. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt initially think it should be 
upheld. He explained that the insurance policy allowed Haven to settle the claim as it saw fit. 
He said Haven had based its decision that the van was a write-off on an engineers report, 
and he hadnt seen satisfactory evidence that the van could, as Mr B said, be repaired for 
under £10,000. 
But the investigator changed his mind and issued a second view, after learning that Haven 
had, in the end, authorised the van to be repaired under the policy. He considered that this 
supported Mr Bs argument that Haven could, or should, have agreed to this sooner. He said 
this would have resulted in the van not being written off, and would have avoided the hire 
costs that Mr B had to pay, as he was entitled to a courtesy vehicle under the terms of his 
policy. So the investigator said Haven should reimburse Mr B for the cost of the hire vehicle 
and remove any Cat S write-off marker placed on the van. 
Haven didnt agree with the investigators revised view, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Haven on 17 May 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion from the investigator. 
As the investigator said in his first view, Haven was entitled, under the terms of the policy, 
to settle Mr Bs claim as it saw fit. It asked its engineers to provide a report on Mr Bs van 
based on photos of the damage. This is common practice, and I dont consider it to have 
been unreasonable. After taking advice from its engineers, it decided that it would be 
uneconomical to have Mr Bs van repaired. So it concluded that the van was a write-off, 
and offered to pay Mr B the value of the van. 
Mr B felt strongly that the van could be repaired so Haven instructed an engineering 
company to carry out a physical inspection of the van. The engineers reported that having 
inspected Mr Bs van, they were satisfied that it was a Category S write-off. In other 
words, it had sustained structural damage. 
I dont accept that the fact that Haven ultimately agreed to pay to have Mr Bs van 
repaired at a garage of his choosing implies that it could, or should, have done so sooner. 
It concluded both from the original desktop engineers report and from the report 
prepared by another engineer after a physical inspection that Mr Bs van was a write-off. 
Given Mr Bs strength of feeling that his van should be repaired, it agreed to pay for the 
van to be repaired by a garage chosen by Mr B. It may be that Mr Bs garage repaired the 
van for less than the estimate provided by Havens own engineers. But that doesnt mean 
that it was unreasonable for Haven to rely on the opinion of the engineers it instructed.  
Mr Bs van was sent to his chosen repairer two and a half weeks after the accident. The 
following day Haven sent Mr Bs repairers an interim instruction to repair the van. In its 
final response to Mr Bs complaint, Haven explained that the interim authorisation was 
issued after it received an estimate from Mr Bs chosen repairer. The instruction said that 
final repair authority would be given on completion of repairs and receipt of a fully costed 
assessment. Mr B emailed Haven early the day after it sent his repairer the interim 
authorisation, and said that his repairer had told him the repairs had been authorised. 
Im satisfied, both from Havens records and from what Mr B has said, that Haven told 
Mr B that if he used a repairer of his choice, he wouldnt be provided with a courtesy 
vehicle while the repairs were being carried out. And this was in line with the provisions of 
Mr Bs insurance policy. It seems that Mr B was without his van for some considerable time, and he had to pay a 
lot to hire a vehicle to use while his van was being repaired. But Ive seen nothing to 
make me think that Haven was responsible for any unreasonable delay in the van arriving 
at Mr Bs chosen repairers. And on the basis of the information provided, Im satisfied that 
Haven gave Mr Bs chosen repairers the go-ahead to carry out the repairs promptly, the 
day after they received the van. 
It isnt clear to me from the information provided why Mr B ended up being without his van 
for so long, but on the basis of what Ive seen, I cant fairly conclude that it was Havens 
fault. And that being the case, I dont find that it would be reasonable to require Haven to 
cover, or contribute to, Mr Bs costs of hiring a vehicle while his van was being repaired.  
I accept that it looks as if there may have been some confusion within Haven. Shortly 
after sending Mr Bs repairers the interim authorisation, Haven asked Mr B for a report 
with a view to seeing whether it could authorise the repairs. Mr B responded that the 
member of staff was obviously unaware that the repairs had already been authorised. 
And nearly two months after the accident, when Mr Bs van had been with his chosen 
repairer for around five weeks, a member of Havens staff told Mr B that it was waiting for 
an estimate from his repairer and that it hadnt granted authorisation for the repairs. But it 
looks as if this was a mistake on the part of that member of staff. It appears from Havens 
notes as if there may have been some confusion about a new system. 
I can understand that the apparent confusion in some of Havens communications will 
have caused additional stress and worry to Mr B at what was already a difficult time. And 
I think its reasonable to require Haven to pay Mr B some modest compensation to reflect 
this. But Im satisfied that both Mr B and his chosen repairer knew that Haven had 
authorised the repairs the day after his van arrived at the repairer. And Ive seen nothing 
to make me think that confusion on Havens part had any impact on the length of time 
that Mr B was without his van. 
Mr B has commented that Haven didnt tell him his van was a Category S write-off, and 
says he only learned this after he brought his complaint to us. But even if thats the case, 
Im not persuaded that Mr B lost out as a result, as I think it unlikely that it would have 
affected his decision. Its clear that he was very keen to have his own van back  not 
least because it was specially fitted out. Mr B mentioned in his complaint to Haven that if 
the van were written off, it would take around 18 months before hed be able to have a 
similar vehicle, due to a shortage of vans and fitting-out time. 
So taking everything into account, I think its reasonable to require Haven to pay some 
compensation to Mr B for the additional stress caused by the confusion in some of its 
communications. But I dont consider that its appropriate to require Haven to take any 
other action. 
I said that my provisional decision was that Haven should pay Mr B £100 to apologise for 
the confusion in its communications with him.Further submissions
Haven has told us that it accepts my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. But 
Mr B doesnt accept my provisional findings. He says, in summary:  
I havent taken into account the fact that he hasnt received any payment in 
settlement of his claim.
He believes Haven should be paying him around £21,000 less the £11,000 repair 
costs.
Havens engineer inspected his van when it was at the repair garage and found no 
structural issues.
Hed simply like Haven to pay him just over £3,000 to reimburse him for his hire 
costs. And hed like the Category S marker removed from his vans record. 
He doesnt understand how Haven can say his van is written off and yet authorise, 
and pay for, its repair. 
Hes entitled to a replacement vehicle for the duration of the repairs under his policy.
His van was taken to a Haven Insurance Approved Repairer, which happened to be 
his own dealership.
It isnt true that he agreed to pay for his own replacement vehicle, as he was covered 
under his insurance policy for a replacement vehicle while his van was being 
repaired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in line with most motor insurance policies we see, 
Haven was entitled to settle Mr Bs claim as it considered appropriate. Haven instructed 
engineers to examine Mr Bs van while it was at the garage. The engineers concluded that it 
had suffered structural damage and would be expensive to repair. Haven decided that the 
van was damaged beyond economic repair (written off). So it offered to pay Mr B the value 
of the van, as set out in the policy. As Mr B has pointed out, if it had done that, hed have 
been entitled to a replacement vehicle for up to seven days.
But Mr B had only had the van for a short time, and he wanted it to be repaired. And Haven 
ultimately agreed to this, even though it wasnt its preferred course of action.
Mr Bs policy said: 
In the event that Your Vehicle is rendered a total loss We will provide You with a Courtesy 
Vehicle for Your use for a maximum period of seven days only. In the event that Your 
Vehicle can be repaired following an accident We will provide You with a Courtesy Vehicle 
for the duration of repairs only when We are repairing Your Vehicle without involving a sub-
contractor that You request that We engage with. Where You request that We sub-contract 
the repair work that We are to carry out, We will not provide You with a Courtesy Vehicle.If Haven had settled the claim as it wanted to do, Mr B would have received a payment for 
the value of the van, and Haven would have provided him with a courtesy vehicle for up to a 
week.
Mr B made it clear to Haven that he wanted the van repaired. In agreeing to this, Haven 
departed from its chosen course of action, and it agreed to Mr Bs garage carrying out the 
work. 
Its clear that Mr B believes firmly that he was entitled to a courtesy car while repairs were 
carried out. But Im satisfied that under the terms of the policy there was no such entitlement. 
Haven considered the van to be a write-off, but agreed to Mr Bs request to have it repaired 
at Mr Bs garage. And Im satisfied that Haven made it clear to Mr B that, even though he 
made it clear that he believed he was entitled to a courtesy vehicle, if the van was repaired, 
hed need to cover the costs of any hire vehicle himself. It was on that basis that the repairs 
went ahead. 
In the event, the repairs took a long time. And Mr B says he had to spend a lot of money 
hiring a vehicle in the interim. I can understand Mr Bs frustration. But I cant fairly hold 
Haven responsible for that. It wanted to pay Mr B the value of the vehicle. Instead, at Mr Bs 
request, it agreed to pay for the van to be repaired. The possibility that the repairs would 
take a long time, and that hire costs would consequently be high, was a risk that Mr B took.
Mr B says I didnt take account in my provisional decision of the fact that he hasnt received 
any payment in settlement of his claim. Haven offered to pay Mr B the value of his van. 
Instead, he chose to keep the van and Haven paid for the repairs. In those circumstances 
there was nothing for Haven to pay to Mr B in settlement of the claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. I know that he feels strongly about the issues hes raised. But 
having thought carefully about all the comments and evidence provided by both parties, Im 
not convinced that theres any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, Haven should pay Mr B £100 to apologise for the confusion in its 
communications with him. I dont require it to take any other action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by paying Mr B £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.  
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman