DRN-4390955
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that three hard credit searches were carried out, by different finance 
providers, after he contacted Carfinance247 Limited to arrange financing on a car he wanted 
to acquire.
What happened
In May 2023, Mr S was interested in acquiring a car, and he contacted Carfinance247 (a 
credit broker) to arrange finance. After sourcing the car, Mr S asked Carfinance247 to 
proceed with the finance application. He says they told him that Lender MI had the cheapest 
rate, so he agreed for Lender MI to do a credit search
However, Mr S says that, in addition to Lender MI, Lender MF and Lender BA also did credit 
searches. And he says the additional credit searches took place without his consent. He was 
also unhappy that Lender MI cancelled his application without his consent.
Carfinance247 said their role was to introduce Mr M to third-party finance providers, and that 
Mr M had agreed to credit searches taking place. They also say that both Lender MI and 
Lender BA offered finance, and Mr S chose to go with Lender BA as they offered a lower 
rate. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr S wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the terms Mr S agreed to allowed for Carfinance247, or any of their 
panel of lenders, to carry out hard or soft credit searches, so she didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong, or that the panel of lenders needed to seek individual consent before 
carrying out searches.
The investigator appreciated Mr Ss concerns about the three credit searches that had taken 
place, and how this may affect any applications for credit going forward, but she hadnt seen 
anything to show that Mr Ss credit rating had been impacted. Finally, the investigator said 
that, if Mr M had any concerns about what the individual lenders had done, for example 
Lender MI declining his application, then he needed to take this up with them directly.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was made to wait for around an hour at 
the dealership while his finance application was being considered, and then he found that 
Lender MI had withdrawn his application.
Because Mr S didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Carfinance247 arranged the finance for Mr S and, as credit 
broking is a regulated activity, this is something were able to look at.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute, and in his complaint to us Mr S confirms he 
gave authorisation for a full credit application. Ive seen the Privacy Policy and Terms and 
Conditions Mr S agreed to when he authorised Carfinance247 to act for him, and these say:
Whenever you apply for any of our products and/or services  we and/or our 
lenders will carry out checks with credit reference agencies (CRAs), including: 
Checks against the data relating to your financial situation and financial 
history. These checks may be referred to as hard searches or credit 
application searches and may be visible to other third parties, such as 
potential lenders.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S was made reasonably aware what searches 
would likely take place when he made his application for credit. And I wouldnt expect 
Carfinance247 to obtain individual authorisation from him for each search  the terms Mr S 
agreed to dont require them to do this.
In this instance, three individual lenders conducted a search against Mr Ss credit file, and I 
understand that two lenders offered terms to him. Which I dont think is unreasonable. I 
appreciate Mr S is concerned as to how this may affect any applications for future credit, but 
I havent seen anything to show me he has been adversely affected; or that hes been 
declined for credit, or offered credit on less favourable terms, as a result. As such, I wont be 
asking Carfinance247 to either compensate Mr S or amend his credit file.
Mr S is also unhappy that he had to wait around an hour, on a public holiday, at the 
dealership, while the finance was approved, and that he only received confirmation of the 
approval shortly after hed left there. While I appreciate the frustration he wouldve felt, I 
dont consider just over an hour an unreasonable time to wait, especially as this wasnt a 
normal working day, so its more than likely the lenders wouldve been working with a 
reduced compliment of staff.
Finally, Mr S is unhappy that Lender MI withdrew his application without consent. While Ive 
noted Carfinance247s comments that this only happened because Mr S had taken finance 
with Lender BA instead, I dont think this is something Carfinance247 were responsible for, 
as they dont determine what a finance provider decides to do with any application. As such, 
this is something Mr S would need to raise with Lender MI direct.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Carfinanc247 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman