DRN-4169762
The complaint
Miss B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her banks accounts without explanation or 
notice. 
What happened
In February 2020, HSBC closed Miss Bs accounts. Miss B says she didnt get any notice 
and only discovered that they had been closed when she attempted to make a purchase on 
her card. 
Unhappy, Miss B complained. In its final response, HSBC said that following an internal 
review in November 2019, it decided to close her account - and its not its policy to discuss 
why. HSBC added that it sent her notice in November 2019 that the accounts would be 
closed in February 2020  which is two months written notice in line with the terms of the 
account. 
Miss B said she didnt receive the notice as it was sent to her address abroad. 
Miss B also complained that a job offer made to her by HSBC was withdrawn around this 
time. A complaint about HSBC withdrawing a job offer, and potential employment, isnt a 
regulated activity I can consider. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Miss Bs 
complaint, and they recommended it shouldnt be upheld. 
As it wasnt clear if Miss B agreed with what our Investigator said, the complaint has now 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Miss B, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having reviewed the information, and considered HSBCs reasons for reviewing Miss Bs 
account, Im satisfied it was acting line with its obligations. 
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before HSBC closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC and Miss B had to comply with, say it 
could close the accounts by giving her at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by HSBC, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the accounts in the way that it has done. In reaching this conclusion, Ive carefully 
considered the type of accounts Miss B had. I know Miss B would like an explanation. But 
HSBC are under no obligation to do so. 
Miss B says she didnt receive any notice in the UK, and the letter that gave her two months 
notice was sent to her address abroad. Both HSBC and Miss B have given me a copy of this 
letter. The letter doesnt have Miss Bs address on but says online copy. 
Miss B appears to have opened this account when she came to the UK for studies in 2016. 
So I can understand why HSBC has her overseas address on its systems. But even if I were 
to accept this letter was sent overseas, I dont think HSBC have done anything wrong here. 
Thats because Miss B wouldve given this address to HSBC for correspondence, and 
ultimately, HSBC did nothing wrong in closing her accounts.   
Miss B hasnt said this matter has caused her distress and inconvenience. But as I dont 
think HSBC has done anything wrong, I find theres no basis for me to make any 
compensation award. So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate Miss B for any trouble 
and upset this may have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman