DRN-2205556
The complaint
Mr L complains about an ongoing problem with how transactions on his credit card account
with TSB Bank plc show up online. He says this has been going on for an extremely long
time, and it has caused him significant difficulties.
What happened
Mr L said that TSB shows his balance and transactions wrongly on mobile banking. He said
that a number of transactions are missed off the statement each month, covering a roughly
two-week period. And that, in turn, affects the running total of transactions, showing how
much he owes TSB at any one time. Mr L thought this probably also meant hed been paying
the wrong amount of interest. He said this problem also affected alternative ways of keeping
up with his spending, like looking at historic statements on pdf or downloading current
statements in an electronic format.
Mr L said that over time this affected his ability to manage his monthly spending. And this
happened at a particularly difficult time for him, he was setting up a new business and he
and his partner had just had a baby.
Mr L told us hed previously paid off the monthly total spending on his credit card in most
months, and not been charged interest. But from October 2018 he had started to pay
interest, sometimes quite large amounts.
Mr L said things got worse when he was told in November 2018 that there had been a
fraudulent attempt to take money from his card. He said he cancelled his card, and got
another, but he had no way to keep an eye on spending to make sure no one was making
fraudulent transactions on his account.
Mr L said that TSB hasnt believed him when hes explained this problem, and hes twice had
to go through his electronic statements in detail, to set out that it simply doesnt add up. And
hes sent TSB detailed evidence of the problem.
Mr L said this all started around April/May 2018, when TSB had system problems. But it had
just never been sorted out. In December 2018, TSB paid him £250 compensation and £50
for expenses, for this and a number of other problems. And it paid the same again in
February 2019. From January 2019 he started to get paper statements, and those were
right, so he could now tell how much he owed at the end of the month. He sent us some
paper statements and some screenshots, so we could compare the two.
Mr L said TSB has clearly tried to do something. It wrote to him in July 2019, and said the
issues with incorrect balances were now resolved. But the problem isnt fixed. Changes TSB
has made now mean he cant see any of his account history before June 2019, which hasnt
improved matters. And although hes asked TSB to print off earlier paper statements, it
doesnt have those either.
Mr L said hed also had other problems  not being able to open secure messages, and not
being able to transfer money between accounts. Although TSB had made some progress
with these, his credit card transactions werent fixed.
Mr L said he wanted to leave TSB, but he was worried about the immediate impact on his
credit file, and he was worried that if he left, TSB would never properly sort out how much he
owed. Mr L said TSB had waived interest on his card when the problem first started, and as
it still wasnt sorted out, he thought it should refund interest from when the interest waiver
ended, in July 2018, to date. He also thought it should pay compensation of £500.
When Mr L complained to us, TSB sent him paper statements going back to May 2018.
TSB said that it had fixed this issue in September 2019. But any fix it applies relies on
customers using up to date browsers, and automatically updating phone apps. If not, the
fixes and updates wont help. TSB said because of this it couldnt guarantee that things were
fixed for Mr L. TSB said it had paid a total of £500 compensation and £100 expenses for Mr
Ls complaint. It thought that was enough to make up for what had gone wrong here.
TSB said that Mr Ls paper statements were right, so it didnt think hed paid more interest
than he shouldve done.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr L still sometimes
paid interest on his credit card balance after he started to receive paper statements, which
didnt support what he was saying about only paying interest because he didnt have access
to accurate balance information. So she couldnt say that the only reason hed paid interest
earlier was because of the problems hed been experiencing with his account.
Our investigator said Mr L couldve avoided problems either by changing his credit card
provider, or by changing his direct debit to pay off the full amount each month. He may have
lost out on interest on his savings, but hed have saved on interest on the card. We did have 
to consider if Mr L couldve mitigated the inconvenience hed experienced.
Overall, our investigator thought that the £600 that TSB had paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr L didnt agree. He said hed checked again, and the problem was still happening. He still
couldnt access online statements, or export the figures in electronic format. Mr L said hed
never thought that TSB wouldnt be able to fix this problem. If hed realised that it would go
on this long, hed have moved banks long ago. Mr L said that the problem definitely wasnt
caused by him using an old or out of date browser. Hed tested it across a number of
different systems, and the problem was consistent.
Mr L said TSB had told its customers that they wouldnt be adversely affected by its system
issues, but because his problems had gone on for longer, he had been. He still felt TSB
should extend its interest free offer for him until the problem was resolved. And he didnt
think he shouldve had to change how he managed his account, or who he banked with. He
thought TSB shouldve fixed the problem that was affecting him. He repeated that he wasnt
sure hed paid the right amount towards his card. He said TSB wasnt interested in fixing this
any more. And he said we hadnt taken account of the increased risk of fraud on his account.
Our investigator said she appreciated that Mr L was still having problems, but TSB had done
all it could to fix this. She appreciated that Mr L didnt expect to have to change how he
banked, but in these specific circumstances she said our service does have to consider what
couldve been done to avoid some of the frustration and inconvenience. Our investigator
thought that couldve been reduced by changing the direct debit amount. And she said our
service doesnt audit accounts. Mr L might want to appoint an accountant if he was
concerned about that.
Mr L said he still didnt know if his balance was correct, and asked who was going to do thework to check that. He said surely TSB should do this. And he said that was one reason he
hadnt already left TSB, he didnt think anyone would ever check his balances if he did so.
He thought what hed paid would be wrong, as it was based on historically wrong balances
that had been carried forward. Mr L wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I know that Mr L has received poor service from TSB. Id like to acknowledge that 
before I consider the individual points of his complaint.
Mr L says that he used to make several individual payments onto his card each 
month, in order to avoid paying any interest. He said that a particular feature of this 
card is he gets 56 days interest free on all purchases. So he pays his card at the last 
minute, to maximise the interest free period on purchases, and maximise the amount 
of time his money spends in an interest bearing account. Mr L told us he didnt want 
to change to paying his card using a direct debit payment each month, because it 
wouldnt allow him to do this.
I think theres been some confusion about how this card works. TSB has confirmed  
that Mr L doesnt get 56 days interest free on all purchases. Its a maximum of 56 
days, but the interest free period (which only applies if the account is paid off in full 
each month) varies, depending on how close to the start or end of the statement 
period the purchase is made.
As an example, if a purchase is made just after the date that a card statement is 
produced, therell be almost a full month before the next statement is issued showing 
that purchase. If the card holder doesnt clear the balance showing on that statement 
until the last day payment can be made, then an interest free period of up to 56 days 
can be achieved. But if a purchase is made not long before a statement is produced, 
then the interest free period still only runs up to the last payment date shows on that 
statement. So, in that situation, the interest free period will be considerably shorter.
TSB has also confirmed that if Mr L pays by direct debit, that money is taken on the 
very last day for him to pay on each statement, without incurring interest.
So the most effective way for Mr L to pay his card account, maximising the interest 
free period for purchases, and the time his money spends in his interest bearing 
account, is to set up a direct debit to pay the full amount each month. Its not to do 
what he says hes previously done, which is to pay in small amounts over the month.
Mr L has always been able to change his account payment to a direct debit to pay 
the full monthly balance. So I dont think the absence of an accurate running total on 
monthly purchases has forced him to pay interest, which he would otherwise have 
been able to avoid. I dont think this has affected him in quite the way he suggests.
I also dont think its likely that Mr L has overpaid interest on his card. Mr L has told 
us that his monthly paper statements are accurate. So TSB does have an accurate 
record of Mr Ls spending. And this is what TSB uses to calculate his debt, including 
interest payments due. I dont think TSB has to audit Mr Ls account to prove this.I dont doubt, however, that the absence of an accurate running total on monthly 
purchases has affected Mr L. He told us the online statements stopped working at a 
difficult time for him, when he was starting a business and a family, so would 
naturally want to keep a close eye on his spending. And he has also had fraud 
concerns on the card, which wouldve made the lack of a live list of transactions all 
the more worrying.
But TSB has paid Mr L £600 for this complaint. Our service considers that a 
substantial award. So Ive got to consider if that provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
I have to bear in mind that Mr L has continued to operate this account, and in the 
same way as before. He hasnt put a direct debit in place to pay off the full amount 
each month. And he hasnt simply moved his account elsewhere.
I do think Mr L couldve taken these steps to lessen the impact on him of this 
problem. Ive said I dont think its likely Mr L has been overcharged on his card. And 
I know Mr L has expressed concerns about the impact of changing accounts on his 
credit file. As our investigator said, the effect of this is usually limited and short-term.
Mr L says that TSB should just continue to waive interest on his card until this is 
sorted out. But TSB may not be able to fix this problem. I dont think its reasonable to 
require it to waive interest on this account indefinitely. 
Ive considered this complaint carefully, and I think that some of the more significant 
impacts Mr L has described, of losing access to an accurate running total on monthly 
purchases, are actually a result of a misunderstanding about how this card works. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that is TSBs fault. I acknowledge that there 
are other impacts on Mr L, but I think that the compensation TSB has already paid is 
enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, including that Mr 
L may have to face the upheaval of moving his card account elsewhere. So, although 
I know Mr L will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB said it had nothing to add. Mr L disagreed, and he wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before this decision issued, our investigator contacted Mr L to say, as I then set out above, 
that there seemed to have been some confusion about how Mr Ls card worked. My 
provisional decision issued shortly after that. When Mr L responded to us, he said that I 
hadnt waited for his response to my earlier questions before I wrote my provisional decision. 
But we hadnt asked Mr L any questions, so I wasnt expecting Mr L to reply. 
Mr L has made some additional points, however, both in response to our email and my 
provisional decision. I will take account of those now. First, Ill look at the issue of 56 days 
interest free borrowing on his card. 
Mr L said I was right that to get 56 days of interest on a purchase, a transaction would have 
to be made immediately after the statement date. He said he hadnt misunderstood this. He 
thought I had misunderstood what he meant by this. He said that was why he needed access to all his transactions, to make sure he didnt pay 
off the balance earlier than he needed to. But I explained in my provisional decision that the 
direct debt date is set at the last possible date for paying off transactions, and still benefitting 
from the longest possible interest free period.
Mr L said that the single date when his payment is due, mid-month, wasnt ideal for 
budgeting, as he receives two separate income streams at different times of the month. And 
he said he wouldnt want to change it. He said that he tended to pay differently when he 
made a large purchase. In that case, he would pay off that particular purchase before 
interest occurred, but might not pay the whole balance then. He might pay the remaining 
balance later in the month out of the second income stream. 
He said he wasnt even certain he would have been able to do as I suggested and pay off 
the full balance every 28-31 days, as he was not convinced he would always have that 
balance available at that time in the month. He said he would within a 30-day rolling period, 
so would always be able to target paying off specific larger transactions first and would make 
further payments within the next 10 days to pay off the remaining balance.
Mr L said that at the time he was also cycling money through current accounts to take 
advantage of the higher interest rates on those, and what I was suggesting would mean he'd 
have had to stop doing that, but instead immediately pay off the card balance quicker than 
he needed to, solely due to an error of TSB's making.
Mr L didnt think he should be forced to change how he chooses to maximise his money. He 
thought that was something he should be able to do without being hindered by the 
shortcomings of his bank. He said he was now doing this successfully with a different bank.
I understand that Mr L wrote his comments on the 56 day issue before my provisional 
decision was issued, so I dont know if he has now appreciates that there remains some 
difference between us on how these cards work. 
Its entirely a matter for Mr L how he chooses to manage his money. If he finds it easier to 
make a number of payments over a few days, then thats his choice. But in this case, Mr L is 
arguing that he wasnt able to pay in the way he wanted, because TSB wasnt providing an 
up to date list of transactions for the second half of each month. And hes also arguing that 
this caused him financial loss, or that paying differently wouldve caused financial loss. 
I know that not having a live list of transactions would be inconvenient for Mr L. Ive taken 
that into account in my decision. But I still dont think that either of the financial losses Mr L 
claims would be a necessary result of what went wrong in this case.
Ive explained in my provisional decision that Mr L could have set up a direct debit for the full 
balance. I also explained that I thought this was the best way to get what he told us he 
wanted  which was to maximise the interest free period he benefits from (and so maximise 
interest earned elsewhere) and also avoid paying interest on the card. 
Mr L makes transactions throughout the month on his card. All the transactions that appear 
on one statement have an interest free period which runs up to the last date for payment 
shown on that statement. So the length of the interest free period will vary between different 
purchases, depending on the point in the month when Mr L made his purchase. But the last 
date on which Mr L can clear the balance, and not pay interest, doesnt vary. Thats the 
same single date, for all of his monthly purchases.If Mr L pays off the statement balance, in full, on the latest possible date, then he pays no 
interest on any of the purchases shown on that statement. If he doesnt, then he pays 
interest on all of the purchases on that statement. Not just on purchases he hasnt repaid.
Mr L told us he was paying off his account in full each month, but that he was choosing to 
make a number of separate payments to do this. But if Mr L is paying off his account in full 
each month, then there is simply no financial advantage to paying off some, larger, 
purchases before the last possible payment date. And that last possible payment date is also 
when a direct debit would take a payment from his current account.
I also note that Mr L was receiving paper statements. No interest is incurred until the date for 
payment, which is set out on those statements. So Mr L could see all of his transactions, well 
before the latest possible date to pay and ensure no interest is incurred.
For those reasons, I cant agree that Mr L has been financially disadvantaged by not being 
able to manage his account more actively. 
Mr L thought it was strange for me not to uphold his complaint, if Id accepted hed had 
problems. At worst he expected his complaint to be upheld, but without any compensation. 
I do accept Mr L has received poor service from TSB. I said that in my provisional decision, 
and I havent changed my mind about that. But when our service can see that a business 
has done something wrong, we next look to see if it had already done enough to put things 
right before we got involved. If it has, that complaint wont usually be upheld. 
Mr L also said that if TSB hadnt denied the issue and shelved old complaints to focus on 
new ones, then he wouldve had his true final response over a year sooner, raised a 
complaint to our service sooner, and have left the bank by now. He said hed have avoided 
many months of frustration, and some interest payments.
Ive explained that I dont think any payment of interest on Mr Ls TSB card was a necessary 
result of the mistakes TSB made. And, whilst I understand that Mr L has been discussing 
this matter with TSB for some time, he also had the option to bring this issue to our service 
as soon as TSB sent a formal reply to his complaint. I dont think I should award 
compensation in this case because Mr L chose to pursue this with TSB instead of doing that.
I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman