DRN-1552378
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H took out the policy in 2002 during a phone call in which he was applying for the credit 
card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Capital One no longer has a recording of the call during which Mr H took out PPI, which is 
not surprising given how long ago it took place. But it does make the case more difficult to 
decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well 
as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr H says he was told he had to take out the PPI in order for the credit card to be agreed. 
Although we dont have a copy of the actual call recording, we have seen copies of the call 
scripts that Capital One was using around the time of the sale. These scripts prompt the 
advisor to make it clear that the PPI was optional. The sale happened a long time ago and 
so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of events has faded. On balance, Im 
persuaded that Mr H was probably given a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that 
he probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Capital One didnt advise Mr H to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H has told us that his employer would have given him less than three months sick pay. 
And he didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So Im satisfied that 
he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that Capital One didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman