DRN-1674310
The complaint
Mr O complains that Temple Finance Limited trading as Perfecthome gave him an incorrect 
settlement figure.
What happened
Mr O bought an item on finance with Perfecthome in January 2019. On 21 October 2019 Mr 
O called to ask for a settlement figure so he could pay off the balance outstanding. Mr O was 
given a figure, and, on the 23 October, he called again to check the figure and was given the 
same figure of £774.75 which he paid in full.
Mr O contacted Perfecthome on 8 November and told them that he thought he had overpaid. 
Perfecthome investigated and on 8 November refunded £96.77 to Mr O. On 15 November 
2019 Perfecthome wrote to Mr O to apologise for the inconvenience and to confirm that the 
refund had been processed on 8 November.
Mr O wasnt happy with that response and said that Perfecthome hadnt done enough to 
compensate him. He explained that the incorrect figure caused him severe financial anxiety 
and left him out of pocket. He thought Perfecthome should have paid him compensation for 
this.
Our investigator didnt agree. They thought that because Perfecthome acknowledged it had 
made a mistake but put it right straightaway it wasnt reasonable to ask it to do anything 
else. Mr O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for 
the same reasons. 
Perfecthome has accepted that it gave Mr O the wrong settlement figure and he overpaid. 
Mr O raised the matter with Perfecthome on the 8 November and the overpayment was 
refunded straightaway. Perfecthome apologised to Mr O for any inconvenience in its letter of 
15 November. 
This service does not punish businesses for mistakes where they have been put right. In this 
case the mistake was put right straightaway and a refund was processed the same day. Mr 
O says that this overpayment wouldnt have been spotted if he hadnt called and the amount 
overcharged caused him significant hardship.
I do understand why Mr O is upset but he had borrowed the money from family to pay off his 
balance. He was aware of the amount required to pay off the balance which he was initially 
happy to pay before he was aware he had overpaid. He didnt have to pay off his balance at 
that time if it was too much. I cant say that the overpayment caused him financial difficulty.
Perfecthome took steps to refund Mr O as soon he made it aware of the overpayment and 
apologised. So, I dont think it is fair or reasonable to ask it to do anything more. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
11 January 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman