DRN-2875086
The complaint
Miss G complains that the vehicle she acquired through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject 
the vehicle and end the agreement. 
What happened
Miss G tells us that she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as M in January 
2019. She says that from soon after the vehicle was supplied it was exhibiting faults with the 
stop / start mechanism. She explains that attempts have been made to repair the faults but 
they keep coming back. Miss G said that on the last occasion when she was taking the 
vehicle to Ms for repairs, on 5 June 2020, the fault had reoccurred. And had resulted in her 
and her child being thrown forward in the vehicle. Miss G explains that shed then told M that 
she wanted to reject it. She says shes lost faith in the vehicle and doesnt feel safe in it.
Santander said it hadnt received anything to show that faults had reoccurred since the last 
repairs. It said that Miss G had booked the car in for repairs on 5 June 2020. But had notified 
it on that day that the same fault had reoccurred. Repairs had gone ahead and Santander 
said that M had subsequently not found that it was able to replicate the fault.  It said that it 
wasnt upholding Miss Gs complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 May 2021. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint as I was satisfied that the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory quality. 
And as numerous attempts at repairs hadnt resolved the problem, I felt that Miss G was 
entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Miss G has replied but said that shed nothing to add. I havent received any reply from 
Santander. 
As no new information has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional view. 
This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Miss Gs complaint is that the stop / start mechanism on her vehicle is faulty and has 
repeatedly failed. Most recently she states that on 5 June 2020 whilst taking the car for 
repairs it had exhibited the same fault.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
The CRA also provides that where the short term right to reject goods hasnt been exercised, 
(usually this has to be within the first 30 days of supply) the dealer / supplier has one 
opportunity to repair the goods. And if repairs fail, the customer may exercise the final right 
to reject.
At the time Miss G acquired the vehicle it had a odometer reading of around 7,000 miles. So 
its unusual for a vehicle of such low mileage to be experiencing a fault of this sort. The 
timeline of what occurred was set out by an email from a manager at Ms. I wont repeat all 
the detail as the parties have seen it.
The email dated 12 June 2020 states that on 10 occasions Miss Gs vehicle has been taken 
back to M for repairs to various components.
The first item listed is:
25/03/2019 Stop start fault 8466 miles
And the list continues until:
14/02/20 Stop start fault 18,878 miles
I think the mileage for the last entry may be mistaken. 18,878 miles is the odometer reading 
from the job card from M dated 8 June 2020. After Miss G reported similar problems when 
she returned the vehicle on 5 June 2020.
Its clear that despite numerous attempts at repairs the same problem was regularly 
recurring for over a year.
Following a complaint in April 2020, the vehicle was examined on 18 May 2020 by an 
independent inspector from a business Ill call A. The report found that shortly after a test 
drive started it had to be aborted as several warning lights illuminated. This included the stop 
/ start warning lights. A also identified several fault codes. The report concluded that the 
faults had mostly been present since April 2019. And that previous repairs had failed.
Following As report, Ive seen Santanders contact notes. These show that Miss G initially 
agreed for further repairs to be done. But that shed made it clear this was conditional upon 
M being able to sort out the problem permanently.But it seems that on 5 June  the date the vehicle was due to be repaired  the fault 
reoccurred. Miss G says by this time shed had enough and informed M and phoned 
Santander. The notes indicate that Santander had closed its case on 28 May  as M was 
due to complete repairs. But the call handler notes suggest that Miss G was told that she 
would need to provide proof that the faults still existed.
The vehicle seemingly wasnt repaired on 5 June. The job card is dated 8 June - and shows 
a faulty Engine Control Module connection was identified. And the connector and terminal 
were replaced. So its reasonable to infer that at the time of the previous call, the faults 
which had been identified by A were still present. And that Miss G had simply changed her 
mind about repairs  as I find she was entitled to do. And had sought to reject the vehicle.
Miss G then followed up her 5 June call with an email dated 8 June to Santander confirming 
that shed told M she wouldnt be collecting the vehicle and confirming that she wanted to 
reject it and end the agreement.
Subsequently, the email dated 12 June 2020 - to which Ive referred earlier - also contained 
further comments from M which I feel are relevant.
Its clear from the content of the email that Ms manager knew that Miss G had sought to 
reject the vehicle. And the email indicated that he also felt the battery should have been 
replaced when the latest repairs were done.
The most relevant parts of the email read:
Periodically the centres involved have changed the car battery itself and this rectifies the 
fault long term. As to why on this occasion we hadnt looked at this as a resolution I dont 
know but I have instructed to have your battery changed to hopefully resolve the issue.
Cars with stop start issues do require a suitably capable battery to operate the vehicle.
This will be done later today and I would therefore ask that you retain the car for the moment 
and monitor for me the car and how its performing.
This suggests the manager is acknowledging that there is still an issue with the stop / start. 
Otherwise theres no apparent reason for the suggestion that the battery needed to be 
replaced. This is not a criticism of the manager concerned  as its apparent hes trying to 
help Miss G. But by this time its equally clear shes set upon rejecting the vehicle.
Looking at the totality of the circumstances, it strikes me that Miss G has shown a large 
amount of tolerance and goodwill. Its quite clear from the history of the vehicle that 
numerous attempts to put things right havent worked. And that shed have been entitled to 
reject the vehicle at any time after the various repairs failed.
No doubt after each of these occasions Miss G was assured that the fault had been 
corrected. Which I presume is why she kept accepting to have the vehicle back.
Its hardly surprising when the vehicle failed again whilst she was taking it for yet more 
repairs, that she should decide enough was enough. I can understand why she would have 
little faith in the latest assurances that things have been put right.
In summary, I find its more probable than not that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. And that numerous attempts at repairs havent returned the vehicle to a 
condition so that it conforms to contract. After the latest recurrence, Miss G was, in my 
opinion, entitled to seek rejection of the vehicle.Putting things right
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Miss G to pay from 5 June 2020. 
Payments accruing up to this date may be retained for fair use;
2. Arrange for collection of the vehicle at no cost to Miss G;
3. Refund any cash deposit;
4. Refund any payments made by Miss G for periods accruing after 5 June 2020;
5. Waive any late payment charges applied after 5 June 2020;
6. Arrange for the removal of any adverse information from Miss Gs credit file in 
relation to this agreement;
7. Pay £100 to Miss G for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8 % per year to any sums arising out of item 3 
and 4 above from date of payment to date of settlement.
If any payments accruing on the agreement up to 5 June 2020 havent been paid, these may 
be deducted before any refunds due to Miss G are calculated.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman