DRN-4313475
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to 
him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £5,500.00 in December 2022. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £270. 
Mr C was provided with a loan by Everyday Loans in January 2018. But weve already 
explained why we arent looking at the complaint about this loan. So all reference to loan in 
this decision is made with reference to the loan Mr C was provided with in December 2022.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr C complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and Mr Cs bank account transactions which he 
was asked to provide. In its view all of this information showed Mr C could to comfortably 
make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr C has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Loans clearly asked Mr C to provide quite a bit 
documentation to support his application. So I dont think that this was a case of Everyday 
Loans simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face 
value. Indeed, Mr C was asked to provide access to his bank account transactions.
Everyday Loans credit searches also showed Mr C had existing debts. But having reviewed 
Mr Cs account transactions, it isnt immediately obvious that Mr C wouldnt be able to make 
the repayments to this loan had he consolidated his existing debts in the way he said he was 
going to. 
Furthermore, Everyday Loans took steps to ensure that Mr C would use the funds as hed 
agreed to by issuing cheques for his existing debts to be cleared rather than further funds 
which Mr C would then use to settle his commitments himself. And although this loan was 
expensive, it did have a lower interest rate than some of Mr Cs existing debts. 
I know that it did increase the length of time Mr C would have to make payments for. But 
theres no doubting that Mr C would have been able to afford the repayments and would 
have had an increased monthly disposable income as long as Mr C closed his accounts 
once the balances were repaid rather than spending further on them.  
Equally, as this was Mr Cs first loan, after some time, with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that 
it was reasonably entitled to believe that it wouldnt be increasing Mr Cs existing 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  especially as it was 
ensuring that some of Mr Cs existing debts were settled. 
I accept that Mr C says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And I suspect the 
reason is because Mr C ended up re-establishing balances on some of his revolving credit 
accounts. But Everyday Loans could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. 
Everyday Loans wont have known Mr C wouldnt close his revolving credit accounts and 
would instead spend on them again. All Everyday Loans could do was take reasonable steps 
to ensure the payments would be affordable for Mr C and take reasonable steps to ensure 
that he would clear his other debts like he said he would, which for reasons Ive already 
explained, Im satisfied it did so.
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.Although Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint, I would remind Everyday Loans of its 
continuing obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should be the case that 
Mr C is experiencing difficulty and it chooses to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman