DRN-2978964
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) havent refunded her after she fell victim to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs L was researching investment opportunities online and came across a 
company (who Ill refer to as A) that interested her. She entered her contact information on 
As website and later received a call to discuss her requirements. Unfortunately, and 
unbeknown to Mrs L, she was actually speaking with a fraudster posing as a legitimate 
employee of a legitimate investment firm. 
Initially unhappy with the investment options suggested, Mrs L contacted A using the phone 
number shed been given to ask for alternatives. She then received another email containing 
information about another investment  a four-year fixed rate bond. This time Mrs L was 
happy with the proposal and confirmed she wanted to go ahead. Mrs L was then provided 
with various forms to complete as well as instructions for how she could make the necessary 
payment. 
At the beginning of May 2019, Mrs L proceeded to make two transfers totalling just over 
£20,000 (£20,000 plus a small admin fee) via her online banking to the account details she 
was given. Initially, everything appeared to be above board - she received another email 
confirming the payments had been received and that she would be receiving a monthly 
statement showing how her investment was doing. Unfortunately, this was the last time Mrs 
L heard from A and in September 2019 she contacted Lloyds where it was confirmed shed 
been the victim of a scam in which A, a legitimate firm, had been cloned and impersonated 
by scammers.
Lloyds raised a scam claim for Mrs L and contacted the receiving bank to see if any of the 
money could be recovered. But, unfortunately, no funds remained in the receiving account. 
Lloyds also told Mrs L that they would be unable to refund her on this occasion either. This 
was because the payments had been authorised by her and Lloyds were unable to agree 
that theyd made any errors in allowing the payments to be processed. Lloyds position was 
re-emphasised in their final response letter issued in February 2021 after Mrs L raised a 
complaint. However, they did award her £50 for how long it took them to progress her 
complaint. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs L asked our service to consider her complaint. She was 
also able to provide further background information about what happened and why she 
believed she was dealing with a genuine investment company. This included:
Mrs L confirming she currently/previously held similar accounts (fixed term bonds) to 
the one she thought she was getting with A.
Mrs L confirming she hadnt discussed the proposal from A with any friends or family.
Mrs L explaining the emails she received from A were very convincing. They included 
several logos from various firms including the Financial Conduct Authority and 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme, as well as a paragraph at the top of the 
emails reassuring her that the investments offered were fully covered if anything went 
wrong.   
Mrs L confirming she did some research into the company but couldnt see anything 
that concerned her  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt ask Lloyds to refund the money Mrs L had 
lost. She accepted the payments were unusual enough to require Lloyds to have asked 
some further questions about them before they were processed. However, she didnt think 
this wouldve made a difference  she didnt think the additional information gathered 
wouldnt have raised concerns that Mrs L was possibly at risk of being scammed. 
Our investigator also looked at whether it was possible for Lloyds to have recovered any of 
the money from the receiving bank which Mrs L paid the money to. Unfortunately, the 
receiving bank told her that the funds had already been moved on by the time Mrs L raised 
the scam with Lloyds, so there wouldnt have been anything they couldve done to recover 
the funds on this occasion either.
Mrs L also raised concerns as to why Lloyds didnt have a system like Confirmation of 
Payee in place which she felt wouldve unravelled the scam. Our investigator confirmed the 
Confirmation of Payee scheme wasnt in place at the time Mrs L made the payments and 
also that it couldnt be applied or considered retrospectively.
Mrs L disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an Ombudsman to review her 
complaint. She believes had Lloyds contacted her about the payments then it was likely the 
scam wouldve unravelled and she wouldnt have incurred her loss. In addition to this, it was 
her understanding that it was only a couple of weeks before new standards were brought in 
that the likes of Lloyds needed to follow and so they ought to have done things like check the 
payee name was the holder to the receiving account. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Its agreed by both parties that Mrs L authorised the payments, albeit as a result of being 
tricked by the scammers. As a result (and under the PSRs as well as terms and conditions of 
her account), the starting position is that Mrs L is liable for the payments in the first instance.However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and prevent fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs L when she authorised the payments from her account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
Firstly, Ive considered whether Lloyds shouldve reasonably intervened when the payments 
were being made. Having reviewed Mrs Ls account activity leading up to the scam 
payments, I think it shouldve. The £20,000 payment was out of character for Mrs L  she 
hadnt made any comparable payments in recent times, it was of high value and was being 
made to a new payee. And so I agree with our investigator that Lloyds shouldve contacted 
Mrs L directly before processing the payments on her behalf. 
But whilst I agree Lloyds shouldve contacted Mrs L due to the unusual nature of the £20,000 
payment  I then need to think whether this would have led to the scam being uncovered.  
And in this case, Im not satisfied it would. Ill explain why below.
As Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have contacted Mrs L, Ive then thought about the sorts of 
questions Id have reasonably expected Lloyds to ask  as well as the likely answers Mrs L 
wouldve provided. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs L wouldve been honest and explained these payments 
related to an investment opportunity. And given that this was a particularly well-known scam, 
I wouldve then expected Lloyds to have probed further. I wouldve expected Lloyds to ask 
what the investment was for and its expected returns, what paperwork Mrs L had received, 
how she had been contacted, and whether she had done sufficient checks on the alleged 
broker - including whether the firm was regulated by the FCA. But even if Lloyds had asked 
the questions Ive set out above, I not persuaded that any of Mrs Ls likely answers wouldve 
put Lloyds on notice that she was about to fall victim to a scam. Im satisfied Mrs L wouldve 
told Lloyds the following: 
She had initiated contact with the business first  so whilst she did then receive a call 
back  this wasnt unexpected or out of the blue.
She had received various documents/paperwork which all appeared to be legitimate.
She had carried out some checks on the company herself and this included checking 
that the firm was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Since complaining to Lloyds, the FCA has put out a warning that the details of the firm Mrs L 
thought she was dealing with have been cloned and are being used by scammers. 
However,  this warning was published a few weeks after Mrs L had made the payments in question here. At the time, there wouldve been no indication that Mrs L wasnt dealing with 
the genuine regulated firm, that appeared on the FCA website. It is only now, with the benefit 
of hindsight, that we know the genuine firms details had been cloned by the scammers. 
Ive also thought about the documents/paperwork Mrs L received. Having looked at the ones 
Mrs L provided herself, Id agree with her that they looked legitimate. Again, we now know 
that the scammers were using documentation used by the legitimate firm  and so I wouldnt 
have expected Lloyds to have any concerns with these either.
The final thing Ive thought about is the rate of return Mrs L was promised on her fixed rate 
bond. However, having reviewed what Mrs L was being promised, I dont think the rate of 
return being offered was so wholly unbelievable that it should have put Lloyds on notice that 
something might not be quite right here either. This is especially when considered against 
the other likely answers Mrs L wouldve been able to provide  most of which Ive already 
covered.
Therefore, on balance, Im not persuaded that any of Mrs Ls likely answers wouldve put 
Lloyds on alert that she was at risk of being scammed and I dont think Lloyds missed an 
opportunity to prevent the scam from taking place. Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that Mrs L wouldve gone on to make the payments regardless and I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to recommend that Lloyds now offer her a refund. 
Recovery of funds
Ive then thought about whether Lloyds did all they could to try and recover the funds sent to 
the receiving account. But again, I agree with our investigator that there was nothing that 
Lloyds couldve done on this occasion as the receiving bank has been able to show that all 
the funds were moved on by the time Mrs L had contacted Lloyds.  
Other considerations
I know Mrs L has also raised concerns that Lloyds didnt have certain systems in place at the 
time of the payments which she feels wouldve helped to avoid the loss shes incurred. 
Whilst she hasnt specifically mentioned it, I believe she may be referring to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) which came into effect on 28 May 2019 as well as 
Confirmation of Payee (CoP) which was introduced in 2020.
Whilst I can completely understand Mrs Ls comments on this matter, neither the CRM or 
CoP were in place at the time her payments happened and so it wouldnt be fair to apply 
these to Mrs Ls circumstances retrospectively when they were not applicable at the time.
Finally, Ive thought about Lloyds offer of £50, which I understand to be for not progressing 
Mrs Ls complaint as quickly as it shouldve done. From everything Ive seen, I believe this is 
reasonable and wont be asking Lloyds to increase this offer.
In summary, Im very sorry to hear what happened to Mrs L. But I dont think her loss is as a 
result of any specific failing on behalf of Lloyds. The fault here lies with the fraudsters 
themselves. And so, for the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding this complaint and 
so I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman