DRN-2315505
The complaint
A, a limited company, is seeking to recover £46,860 from Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI), 
which they lost from their account as a result of a third-party scam. A has been represented 
throughout by its directors, Messrs O (whom I will refer to as Mr O1 and Mr O2). 
Bank of Ireland (BOI) says it is not liable for the loss because A unwittingly authorised 
the payment itself  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute that Mr O1 and Mr O2 authorised three scam payments of £312,600 
on behalf of company A. They were in the process of paying for supplies for their 
business from three different companies, so were expecting email confirmations of the 
relevant account details to which they needed to pay the outstanding balances to. 
Between 28 March and 3 April 2017 Mr O1 and Mr O2 received emails which appeared 
to come from their three suppliers which included invoices and account details. All emails 
appeared to be from the email addresses Mr O1 and Mr O2 had been using to 
correspond with each of the suppliers. Supplier 1 sent over the account details following 
an email from Mr O1 and Mr O2 requesting them. Both Supplier 1 and 3s emails 
appeared in a chain of emails. All three emails included invoices and details of the work.
On 3-5 April 2017, Mr O1 and Mr O2 transferred the money to the three different 
accounts as per the instructions they were sent in the email. They did so via transfer in 
branch over three payments, after paying some funds into their account on 31 March 
2017. All three payments went to new payees. 
A few days after sending the payments, Mr O1 and Mr O2 went to the premises of Supplier 3 
to collect the goods they believed they had paid for. It was at this point that they discovered 
that Supplier 3 hadnt received their payment. It then came to light that they had fallen victim 
to what is known as an invoice intercept scam. Their email exchange had been hacked 
and the account details provided by all three suppliers had been altered, and the original 
emails with the correct details had been deleted before Mr O1 or Mr O2 had even seen 
them.  
Mr O1 and Mr O2 contacted BOI on 6 April to let them know that they had fallen victim to 
three email intercept scams. BOI contacted the receiving banks and were able to recover 
most of the losses  though they were unable to recover £46,860.05 as it no longer 
remained in one of the receiving accounts. 
I accept that the three payments were authorised payments even though Mr O1 and Mr 
O2 were the victims of a sophisticated scam. They completed the relevant paperwork in 
branch including providing the necessary security credentials to authenticate the 
payment. So, although they did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of the account, company A is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider BOI should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
BOI declined to refund the remaining loss as it didnt believe it had done anything wrong 
as it: 
was merely carrying out Mr O1 and Mr O2s instructions to make the payment; 
had correctly followed all bank policies and protocols;
said Mr O1 and Mr O2 were responsible for ensuring the correct payee account 
details were listed, and it was under no obligation to check whether the receiving 
bank information was correct. It also said it was for company A to carry out any 
due diligence, not BOI; 
the payment was not unusual or out of character as they had undergone due 
diligence on company A and so knew that they would be making large payments 
out of the account for their new business; and
correctly engaged with the receiving banks once the fraud had been recognised, 
and had managed to recover a large portion of the losses but didnt think it should 
be liable for the remaining losses.
The first payment was for £110,000 and Im satisfied this was suitably unusual that it 
should have prompted further questioning. The account was reasonably new and only 
used a few times before this payment was made  so the payment stands out as 
uncharacteristic of the account. There had not been any large payments out of this 
account prior to this one. It was then followed by two further payments, one on the 
same day and one two days later that totalled £202,600. I do understand that this 
account was relationship managed and the account had received a bank loan for 
business purposes, so there may have been an expectation that large payments were 
going to be made from the account. But I still think this payment should have been 
recognised to be at risk of fraud.  And so Im satisfied BOI ought fairly and reasonably, 
and as a matter of good practice, to have done more here - I think it ought to have 
made enquiries about the purpose of and the circumstances leading up to the 
payment before it processed it. Im satisfied that if BOI had questioned Mr O1 or Mr O2 in this particular case, the scam would have been revealed and prevented. Ill 
explain why.
Neither party said that BOI asked Mr O1 or Mr O2 any questions about this payment prior to 
processing this payment. BOI have relied on the terms and conditions requiring Mr O1 and 
Mr O2 to have ensured they gave them the correct account details for the receiving bank. 
But, as I outlined above, they do have responsibility to protect their customers from scams. 
Mr O1 and Mr O2 fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  invoice intercept. 
And its a type of scam Im satisfied BOI ought to have been aware of at the time. Had BOI 
questioned Mr O1 or Mr O2, they would most likely have told BOI they were intending to pay 
their suppliers funds in relation to their new business. But, at this point, being aware of the 
prevalence of this type of scam and its common characteristics, BOI wouldve had the 
opportunity to question him further.
A particularly common feature of this type of scam is that a customer will receive an 
email that appears to be from the genuine business they are in contact with. This email 
will contain either updated payment details or the payment details provided will have 
been subtly changed - unbeknown to the customer, in order to redirect the payment to a 
fraudulent account.
This is a common scam with very particular characteristics, and Im satisfied BOI ought fairly 
and reasonably to have asked Mr O1 or Mr O2 how the payment details had been 
communicated to him. They wouldve told the bank theyd been sent to them by their 
suppliers, by email. BOI could then have educated them about this type of scam and its key 
characteristics. BOI could have asked Mr O1 or Mr O2 to check before continuing with the 
transfer - it couldve advised Mr O1 and Mr O2 to contact their suppliers, using established 
contact numbers, to confirm the account details were correct. Had BOI done so, Im 
persuaded that this would likely have produced some doubt in Mr O1 and Mr O2s minds 
that the payment details may not be legitimate, and they would have contacted their 
suppliers before proceeding with the payments. After all, this was a significant amount of 
money and Mr O1 and Mr O2 may not have been aware previously that this type of scam 
was even possible. Im persuaded that once informed of this, they would have taken some 
steps to verify the account details provided to them  had Mr O1 and Mr O2 done so, Im 
persuaded that the scam would have been prevented and no loss occurred.
In summary, Im persuaded BOI ought fairly and reasonably to have encouraged Mr O1 or 
Mr O2 to confirm the account details hed been sent. His circumstances had the hallmarks 
of a 
well-known scam. And BOI should have explained the risks of scams involving the 
interception, altering and hacking of emails which would have prompted further action from 
him. In other words, if BOI had carried out further or better questioning in line with a banks 
duty of care, it seems probable that Mr O1 or Mr O2 would have contacted his suppliers just 
to make sure everything was as it should be. At this point, the scam would have come to 
light. The fraud would have failed; and company A would not have lost £46,910.15. 
By the time the scam came to light, there were still significant funds remaining in the 
beneficiary accounts. BOI did act quickly in attempting to recover the funds, and as 
outlined above their swift actions meant that the majority of the funds were recovered. 
This meant that the funds were returned to company A within a matter of days. 
I have also considered whether company A should bear some responsibility for its loss. 
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, Mr O1 and 
Mr O2 were both still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what they were doing 
 they thought they were making legitimate payments to their suppliers whom they had been in regular contact with. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this 
occasion, Mr O1 and Mr O2, on behalf of company A, were the unwitting and blameless 
victims of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr O1 and 
Mr O2 were the laypeople.
In the circumstances I am satisfied BOI should fairly and reasonably reimburse company A 
for the loss suffered without any reduction. Ive considered whether interest should be paid 
on this figure. Our investigator recommended that 8 per cent simple interest should be paid 
from the date of the loss to the date of the repayment  I dont agree. I wrote to both Mr O1, 
Mr O2 and BOI to explain my thinking, and to give them a chance to respond. I said:  I 
asked what company A did when the money was lost. They explained that they didnt need 
to formally borrow any money from a bank or other financial business. They had some in 
the account, borrowed some from friends and family so didnt have to pay any interest. 
However, this did mean that some of the suppliers thought they were at a bigger loss than 
they had told them, so didnt think they would be able to pay and walked away from the 
project. Other suppliers stayed, but Mr O1 and Mr O2 think they didnt complete the work to 
the standard expected because of the situation. Thankfully, the project has been able to 
continue, but it was due to be completed in June 2017, and whilst it is up and running there 
remain some outstanding things to complete. This means it is not as profitable as they had 
hoped. 
Based on this, I cannot reasonably conclude that they were entirely deprived of the money 
and its uses such that I would award simple interest at the rate of 8% - they were able to 
make the necessary purchases to continue with their project, albeit with additional 
difficulties. Nor are there any additional direct financial losses such as interest on loans to 
consider for reimbursement. 
But I do think that the actions of BOI in not refunding the final payment have caused 
inconvenience to company A. Namely: 
the inconvenience of having to find other ways of paying their suppliers 
the reputational damage that led some suppliers to not pursue the project, and the 
concerns around reputational damage even with those that did continue with it
I understand there have also been delays in completing the project, but its not clear that 
this was caused by company A not having this money  there could be many contributory 
factors including the pandemic, or issues with the suppliers. 
Whilst it cannot undo any of this, I think a payment in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused to company A should be awarded. When considering the amount I am minded to 
award, I have had to consider the fact that the inconvenience was primarily caused by the 
scammers themselves, rather than BOI. But I do think the delay in refunding the remaining 
losses has added to this, and so I am minded to ask BOI to also include £500 in recognition 
of this.Both parties accepted the change in redress as a fair approach in the circumstances, without 
adding any further points for consideration. So, I find that the fair and reasonable conclusion 
of this case is for BOI to refund the remaining losses, any fees associated with the transfer 
of the funds, and to pay £500 in recognition of the inconvenience caused to company A. 
My final decision
So having considered all of the circumstances and evidence relevant to this complaint, I 
uphold this complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc and direct it to:
refund company A the £46,860.05 lost as part of the scam; 
refund any fees associated with transferring the funds; and
pay company A £500 in recognition of the inconvenience it was caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O1 and Mr O2, 
on behalf of company A, to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman