DRN-3518850
The complaint
Mr H complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) provided unsuitable advice 
regarding the transfer of: deferred benefits he held in a defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme (OPS); and two personal pensions into a new personal pension plan.
What happened
In March 2016 Portal provided Mr H with advice regarding his pension plans. It conducted a 
fact-find with Mr H and established the following:
He was 57 years of age;
He was in poor health;
He was unable to work and receiving Personal Independence Payment benefit of 
£218.60 a month;
He received a Motability payment that paid for his car;
He was married;
He and his wife owned their home with no outstanding mortgage;
Their monthly expenditure of £947 was met by their combined monthly earnings of 
£1,748.
Portal established that Mr H had access to certain savings. The fact-find indicated that Mr H 
had £70,000 invested in fixed term investments. Mr H explains that this money was from 
inheritance his wife had received. He was also shown to have £10,000 in premium bonds, 
£3,000 in building society deposits and £9,000 in a cash ISA. His wife was recorded as 
having a further £16,000 in an ISA and £10,000 in premium bonds.
Mr H had three different pensions at the time. 
Pension 1 had defined benefits (DB). It provided a pension of £1,373 a year at age 65 and 
had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £18,059. Pension 2 was a defined 
contribution (DC) personal pension with a fund value of £8,120 and pension 3 was also a DC 
personal pension with a fund value of £8,670.
Portal recommended that Mr H transfer Pension 1 to a new flexi-access income drawdown 
personal pension (pension 4), and also to switch pension 2 and pension 3 to that new 
scheme. Leaving Mr H with a single consolidated pension fund around £34,840. From which, 
it recommended he take an immediate 25% pension commencement lump sum (PCLS), 
leaving the remainder invested.
Mr H followed Portals recommendation and transferred his pensions.
Mr H later complained, via a claims management company (CMC) about the suitability of the 
advice hed been given. Although the complaint has been brought by a representative, for 
simplicity, Ill just refer to Mr H in this decision. The basis of the complaint was that the 
defined benefits in pension 1 were valuable and werent likely to be improved on by the 
transfer. 
Portal looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. It explained that it considered that its 
recommendation delivered Mr Hs objective of releasing the amount of tax-free cash that he 
needed. It didnt think that other options of raising the money were as suitable. It said that it 
had made Mr H aware of the guaranteed benefits that he was giving up in transferring the 
benefits held in pension 1. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and thought it should be upheld. In summary, 
he didnt think that transferring pension 1 could realistically provide more valuable benefits 
overall than were already guaranteed. He didnt think that Mr Hs need for tax-free cash was 
a good enough reason to give up the guaranteed benefits. He didnt think that it was suitable 
to switch pension 2 and pension 3 to a new pension that had higher overall charges. 
Portal didnt agree with our investigators view. So this case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision to both parties, explaining the 
reasons that I was of the same opinion as our investigator. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to comment or provide further evidence that may change my mind.
Mr H responded confirming that he had no further comments to make. Portal acknowledged 
receipt of my provisional decision. But has offered no further comment or evidence that its 
asked me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all of the evidence, but in the absence of being presented anything further 
to consider, my final decision remains the same as the provisional decision Ive already 
shared with both parties. Ill explain why Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant laws and
regulations as well as the regulators rules, guidance and standards. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) publish high level principles for the conduct of regulated businesses. These 
are explained in the FCA handbook under section PRIN 2.1. Of most relevance in this case 
are:
Principle 2 - A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care, and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 9  A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice 
and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its 
judgement.
Mr Hs complaint relates to the transfer of three different pension schemes. There are 
inherent differences in the way that a DB scheme, like pension 1 works, compared with the 
DC schemes like pensions 2 and 3. This means that the things Ive considered in assessing 
the suitability of Portals recommendation are different in each case. So Ill explain my 
thoughts on each as follows.
Pension 1
The FCA states in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that a firms starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme should be that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer for pension 1 if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Hs best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied that it was.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement age of 65 was quoted as 11.7% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 
3.8% per year for 7 years to retirement in this case. Obviously, it was highly likely that Mr H 
would be unable to achieve a return in excess of 11.7%, regardless of the amount of 
investment risk he was prepared to take. For further comparison, the industry projection for 
investment returns were 2%/5%/8% for low/medium/high respectively. For this reason I think 
that the recommended transfer meant Mr H receiving benefits that were, overall, less 
valuable.
Whilst critical yield provides a measure of whether or not pension benefits can be matched 
or bettered following a transfer, its not the only reason a transfer may be suitable. So Ive 
considered the objectives that Portal identified for Mr H and whether they made this transfer 
suitable, in spite of the likelihood that the overall value of pension benefits would be lower.
The main reason that Portal seem to recommend a transfer was to enable Mr H to meet his 
objective of accessing the maximum tax-free cash from his pensions. Mr H said he wanted 
to access around £8,000 to replace a conservatory roof. Transferring this pension only 
generated a PCLS around £4,500.
Mr H and his wife already had access to the means to raise this sum from their savings 
though. Each had £10,000 in premium bonds according to Portals fact-find. As well as 
sufficient savings in ISAs. I understand that Mr H was reluctant to use their savings, as 
much of that money had been accumulated from inheritance his wife had recently received. 
But I dont think Mr H understood the significance of what he was giving up with pension 1. If 
he had, he would most likely have understood that using existing savings outside of his 
pension was more suitable. So, whilst Mr and Mrs H had ready access to the means to raise 
the £8,000 they wanted, it wasnt suitable to transfer pension 1. It should have been a last 
resort to raise a cash lump sum.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr H had with Portal when it conducted its fact-find. He 
was aware that he could take tax free cash from his pension. And was enticed by the idea of 
taking advantage of that. But Mr H wasnt paying tax. So had his full personal tax allowance. 
Even if he hadnt had other available savings, the amount of money he needed to raise, 
even if it was taken from his pensions, didnt need to be taken as a part of a maximum 
PCLS. 
Pension 2 and Pension 3 were both of a size that they could be taken as small-pot 
pensions. One of these could have been taken in full. Although 75% of that would have been 
taxable, it would have most likely been within Mr Hs personal allowance. It would all have 
ended up being tax free. Portal identified this option in the appendix of the suitability report 
but dismissed it without much regard. That isnt to say that I think Mr H would have done 
this. He really didnt need to. But it provides further evidence of the options that were 
available for Mr H to meet his indicated objective without transferring pension 1.
Ive considered whether the objective of greater flexibility over how he accessed his pension 
in the future was important to Mr H. And I dont think it was. Portal didnt establish what income Mr H may have needed from his pensions in the future. But it was clear that no 
recommendation was made about how to draw benefits other than the PCLS. So I dont think 
that, at that time, Mr H had any specific plans regarding taking income from his pensions. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer pension 1 to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise 
Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent Mr H was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by pension 1 wouldve been useful to his 
wife if Mr H predeceased her. I dont think Portal made the value of this benefit clear enough 
to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
Portal should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
I acknowledge that Mr H had a health condition and may have had concerns about his life 
expectancy. But Mr H not reaching his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also 
possible that he would exceed this, in which case he would need his pension to last longer. If 
Mr H transferred out of pension 1 hed be relying on investment returns to ensure sufficient 
capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death benefits, whereas the 
spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H.
Portal listed objectives of having greater ownership and control of his pension fund and 
being willing to take investment risk. But I agree with our investigator, who explained that 
these arent objectives that Mr H genuinely had. As far as the evidence shows, Mr H had 
little understanding of investing and expressed no interest in taking any active control over 
investments in his phone call with Portal. And a willingness to take investment risk wasnt an 
objective but rather a tolerance. Both of these objectives were actually consequences of the 
recommendation to transfer. I dont think either offered a reason to support the 
recommendation.
For the above reasons, I think that Portals recommendation to transfer pension 1 was 
unsuitable. Although it explained the FCA presumption of unsuitability in its 
recommendation, I dont think the conclusion it reached heeded this position. It simply wasnt 
reasonable to recommend this pension transfer, and Portal should have made it clear to 
Mr H that he didnt need to transfer to raise the money he needed.
Pensions 2 and 3
Portal identified that neither of these DC pensions had any guaranteed benefits attached to 
them. So it was possible to switch both to a different pension without penalty or loss of 
guarantees. But for similar reasons to our investigator, I also think that this switch was 
unsuitable.
The fact that no guarantees were lost doesnt mean that it was suitable to switch the existing 
pensions. Just because a customer could switch didnt mean that they should. Portals suitability report dealt, in the main, with the issues around pension 1. Which, given the 
defined benefits that would be lost in that scheme, was understandable. Portals explanation 
as to why Mr H should switch pension 2 and pension 3 was very limited. No comparison was 
made with the funds he was already in compared to its recommended investments. 
The only explanation that Portal gave to switch these pensions seems to have been that it 
enabled access to the 25% tax-free cash. Portal had identified that the terms and conditions 
for pension 1 or pension 2 did not enable Mr H to go into drawdown. So he couldnt have 
taken tax free cash whilst leaving the remaining pension funds invested in a flexible 
drawdown way. 
But I explained above why I dont think that Mr H had a genuine need to take tax free cash 
from his pensions. He was interested in using it because it was there, but he just didnt need 
to. It wasnt a good reason by itself to recommend switching these pensions. Portal didnt 
offer any actual explanation to Mr H at the time why else he ought to transfer. But Ive 
considered if there were other reasons that made the switch suitable.
I note that Portals suitability report explained to Mr H what the charges were for the scheme 
it was recommending. It explained that Mr H would pay an annual management charge of 
0.48% for the pension platform. The report also said that fund charges would also apply to 
the plan but didnt say what those were. It merely referred Mr H to the literature from the new 
provider.
Portal ought to have provided Mr H with a clear comparison of the new charges compared to 
those of his existing schemes. But it didnt. The report said, it is important to note that 
overall this strategy could cost more than your existing arrangement. Which I dont think 
was clear enough. His existing schemes had annual charges of 0.2% and 0.42%. I think that 
Portal clearly recommended a more expensive product. It gave Mr H little explanation about 
what type of pension it was. But it was an investment platform that was more likely to require 
ongoing monitoring, for which Portal were charging 1% a year. With the attitude to risk of 
moderately cautious, that Portal assigned Mr H, it was far from reasonable to suppose that 
Mr H was likely to enjoy increased benefits by making this switch.
For these reasons, I dont think that Portals advice to switch pension 2 and pension 3 was 
suitable either. And Mr H would have been best advised to leave his pensions where they 
were.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he ought to have 
been advised not to transfer his pensions. I think its likely he would have followed the advice 
and his pensions would have remained as they were.
Pension 1
For pension 1, Portal must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.For clarity, this calculation will be comparing the proportional value of the benefits lost in 
transferring pension 1. In order to do so, Portal will need to calculate what proportion of 
pension 4 was made up from the original transfer value of pension 1. And should also 
proportionately account for any withdrawals made from the existing pension scheme. 
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Pension 2 and Pension 3
Any loss Mr H has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional values of  
pension 2 and pension 3 from the providers on the basis that theyd been invested in the 
same ways, and subtracting the proportion of the current value of the pension accounted for 
by the initial transfer value, from this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain 
and no redress is payable.
If the answer shows a loss, that amount is the compensation amount that should, if possible, 
be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
Any withdrawal from Mr Hs existing pension should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint. 
However if Portal is unable to obtain the notional values from the providers of pensions 2 
and 3, my aim is to put Mr H as close to the position he would probably now be in if hed 
invested similarly to those existing funds.
Its not possible to say precisely where Mr H wouldve invested. But I think what Ive set out 
below is a fair and reasonable alternative given his circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for the relevant proportion of Mr H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; 
For the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, 
which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
Why is this benchmark suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr H would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I direct Portal Financial Services LLP to compensate Mr H in the manner Ive set out in 
Putting things right above.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr H.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman