DRN-3709233
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd has unfairly cancelled their protection 
policy due to non-payment of premiums, and it will not reinstate it. To resolve their complaint, 
they want their policy to be put back in force. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G held a joint protection policy with Zurich, which offered them life and critical 
illness cover. They later made a claim to Zurich for critical illness benefit for Mr G in 2020, 
after he was sadly diagnosed with a condition affecting his central nervous system in 2018.  
The claim was paid, and so the policy benefit ended for critical illness. However, to provide 
ongoing life cover, Zurich required Mr and Mrs G to begin a new life policy for the remaining 
twelve year term and sum assured  which they wished to do. There was a delay in 
arranging this, but on 4 February 2021, Zurich wrote to Mr and Mrs G to set up the life policy.  
Mr and Mrs G made a first complaint about the delay, and Zurich upheld that complaint.
However, in March and April 2021, Zurich wasnt able to collect payments for the new policy 
because a direct debit mandate (DDM) form hadnt been supplied by Mr and Mrs G. On 22 
March 2021, Mrs G made a manual payment for the two missing premiums by bank transfer. 
On 4 June 2021, Zurich lapsed the policy due to unpaid premiums. However, Mr and Mrs G 
said they had completed a bank transfer for the missing premiums on 2 June 2021. They 
emailed Zurich with their concerns - and it treated those as a second complaint. As Mr and 
Mrs G had repaid the arrears before the two month expiry, the policy remained in force. 
However, on 4 August 2021 the policy lapsed again  Zurich said this was because it had 
told Mr and Mrs G in July 2021 that it would do so unless payments were brought up to date. 
On 13 August 2021, Zurich rejected the complaint. It said it had acted fairly, it could not find 
any evidence of wrongdoing or reinstate the policy. So, Mr and Mrs G brought their 
complaint to this service. 
When Zurich responded to this service to supply its file on the complaint, it maintained that it 
had acted fairly in refusing the reinstatement. It did, however, offer to pay Mr and Mrs G 
£250 as an ex-gratia payment in recognition of any upset theyd been caused due to the 
handling of the complaint. 
An investigator from this service did not believe that Zurich should be required to reinstate 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy. She believed it had fairly lapsed the policy on 4 August 2021, having 
warned them on 6 July 2021 it would do so if payment was not made by that date. She 
otherwise said the offer of £250 was fair in the circumstances, though she did not believe 
Zurich had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They said they had paid thousands of pounds in policy premiums 
to Zurich over the years and they did not accept that their request for reinstatement could be 
disregarded in favour of a payment of £250. They reiterated that if they had never made a 
claim for Mr G under the policy, they wouldnt be in this position now.  
They also said they feel let down by Zurich, at a time when Mr G has been unwell. They still 
questioned why they were able to set up a direct debit from their account on 6 February 
2021, yet the policy was still allowed to lapse. They contended that their time should be 
spent concentrating on the impact of Mr Gs condition and not fighting Zurich for fair 
treatment. They asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
Zurich confirmed it did not have any further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I also believe that Zurich has acted reasonably in the 
circumstances when lapsing the policy, and therefore I do not propose to uphold this 
complaint - aside from endorsing the offer that Zurich has already made.  
I was sorry to learn of Mr Gs diagnosis, and I send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs G as I 
realise things have been difficult for them. 
Section 10 of Mr and Mrs Gs policy terms and conditions sets out that Zurich collects 
premiums monthly or annually by direct debit. It also says:
10.4 If you dont pay your premium 
If you don't pay a premium within two months of the premium due date, the policy will 
end and well stop providing you with cover. If your premiums are paid by a third 
party, its your responsibility to ensure theyre paid on time. We wont reinstate a 
policy which has ended  if you still need cover youll need to apply for a new policy. 
Zurich agreed to set up Mr and Mrs Gs policy in February 2021. However, it didnt receive 
any payment of premiums because Mr and Mrs G hadnt sent it a completed DDM  and it 
required this in order to take the monthly premium payment from them.  
On 29 March 2021, Zurich wrote to both Mr and Mrs G again to note the payment of £68.70 
(the missing February and March premium total) had been made. It also told them how in 
order for us to collect future payments to your policy, please complete and return the direct 
debit mandate which has been sent separately or contact us on the number below to 
reinstate your account details. 
No DDM was supplied. So, on 5 May 2021 Zurich wrote to Mr and Mrs G again to explain 
they had missed another two premiums (for April and May). It said if these were not made up 
by 4 June 2021, it would lapse the policy, and Mr and Mrs G could not restart it. It issued a 
lapse letter on 4 June 2021 on that basis.  
However, on this occasion the lapse did not take effect because Mrs G emailed Zurich on 16 
June 2021 to say she had made the payment as required on 2 June 2021  two days before 
the lapse date. 
On 21 June 2021, Mrs G emailed again  noting she had received the earlier lapse letter. 
She said they believed a direct debit was set up, but nonetheless, they had made the 
manual arrears payments as they wanted the life cover to continue.  On 23 June 2021, Zurich added Mrs Gs concerns to the complaint it had previously raised 
for her and Mr G. 
On 28 June 2021, Zurich wrote to Mr and Mrs G to explain their policy had been reinstated. 
It also said, for us to collect future payments, please complete and return the direct debit 
mandate we have sent to you separately. 
On 6 July 2021, Zurich wrote to Mr and Mrs G to say they had missed two further premiums 
(for June and July). Again, Zurich issued a warning noting if you've already arranged to pay 
this, then you don't need to do anything. However if we don't receive payment by 4 August 
2021 then your policy will be cancelled and you won't be able to restart it.
Mrs G emailed Zurich on 16 July 2021, as follows:
I am emailing and hoping this gets to you and I get a reply, as I still cannot get in 
touch with you on the telephones. 
We have received another letter stating we owe 2 months premiums again. I have 
already sent copies of last payments and copy of the direct debit that was set up, and 
was told this would be looked into why the direct debit was not going through.
But I am still waiting for some reply.
Also, I have had an email with a link to see some details on but havent been able to 
open it. I have sent request to register and or reset my password but again, no reply.
I will transfer the money once again for the payments but PLEASE can you get this 
sorted so I can pay by direct debit.
Hoping for a positive reply as soon as possible
On 19 July 2021, Zurich emailed Mrs G to say her comments would be added to her existing 
complaint from June 2021. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt make the missing arrears payment and the policy duly lapsed on 4 
August 2021. 
In her call to Zurich on 13 August 2021, she said she had sent in two DDMs in late June 
2021. However, Zurich has no record of a DDM being completed by either Mr or Mrs G via 
post or email. 
I recognise that Mrs G has supplied print screens of a direct debit set up with her bank, using 
the details Zurich provided. But that print screen also shows that though this was done on 6 
February 2021, no payments had been collected at any time via that means. The last 
payment and last amount columns were blank - because it was not set up by Zurich.  
What Zurich required was completion of the DDM form  following which it could take the 
payments with authority from Mr and Mrs G. And they never returned the form or made other 
arrangements about the DDM. It is for this reason that the policy fell into arrears on three 
occasions, because Mrs G was making the payments by bank transfer instead.  
I appreciate that Mrs G may not have appreciated what was required of her and Mr G. But I 
also have to be mindful that each arrears letter explained that they must complete and return 
the DDM to Zurich. They also knew that if - in the interim - premium payments werent made 
manually to avoid falling into arrears, Zurich would cancel the cover and not reinstate it. 
The policy terms say that once two months of premiums are missed, it will be cancelled and 
cannot be reinstated. So, Im unable to enforce or order Zurich to put the policy back in place subject to any missing premiums  the contractual terms are clear that Mr and Mrs G would 
need to reapply for their cover once the two months have passed without payment.  
I am pleased to note that Zurich has agreed to make a payment to Mr and Mrs G for distress 
and upset caused by the handling of the continued arrears. I say that because on 19 July 
2021 it added Mrs Gs email to the complaint, without reiterating that the payments had to be 
paid by 4 August 2021 for the policy not to lapse  in spite of the ongoing complaint. Though 
the responsibility to make the premium payment up before 4 August 2021 was clear to Mr 
and Mrs G, adding the email to the complaint without reviewing it unnecessarily confused 
matters and has caused additional upset to Mr and Mrs G. 
Otherwise, I cannot uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G were aware that until they had 
supplied a completed DDM they needed to make arrears payments manually, using Zurichs 
bank details  as they had done twice before. It is unfortunate that they did not do so, but I 
cannot hold Zurich accountable for that. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint. Though I know this wont be what theyve hoped for, cannot 
ask Zurich Assurance Ltd to reinstate their lapsed policy. I leave Mr and Mrs G to notify 
Zurich if they wish to accept its ex-gratia offer of £250 for the upset theyve been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman