DRN-1442460
 
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold and I've set out my reasons below.
Mr P says Halifax told him he had to buy the PPI to get the credit card he wanted. He 
says he wasn't given a proper choice about buying the cover. Ive noted everything 
Mr P has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed 
between Mr P and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these 
events happened many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened 
can fade over time. Halifax hasn't been able to provide much information from the 
time the policy was sold, which isn't surprising given the amount of time that's 
passed. And it's similar to some other cases I've seen. But Halifax has supplied a 
sample copy of the credit card application form that was in use at the time Mr P took 
out his card and PPI. I think it's reasonable to conclude that Mr P would've had to 
complete a similar application form for the credit card and PPI he was taking out. And 
that form required customers to complete a box to show that they wanted the PPI. 
There is nothing on the form to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting 
the credit card. I think it's unlikely Halifax would've arranged the PPI for Mr P if that 
box hadn't been completed on his application form. So without anything else to 
support what Mr P has told me, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say that 
Halifax didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr P, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr P would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
 This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman