DRN-2562496
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy for subsidence.
  
What happened
In 2020, Miss O got in touch with RSA because shed noticed cracking in her conservatory. 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for investigations to 
establish the cause of the problem.
The loss adjuster found the conservatory was built on made ground. It said the damage 
was a result of the foundations being inadequate for the site conditions  and RSAs policy 
didnt cover damage caused this way.
Miss O wasnt happy with this and complained.  RSA thought the loss adjuster had reached 
the right outcome.
Our investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. To put things right she said 
RSA should deal with the claim and pay Miss O £150 compensation.
Miss O agreed. RSA didnt. It said the foundation depth was insufficient and it was fair to 
decline the claim.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and RSA accepts the conservatory has 
suffered subsidence damage. Its declined the claim on the basis the foundation was 
inadequate, defective or faulty. Its reasoning has focused on the depth of the foundation.
The subsidence section of the policy says it doesnt cover damage caused by faulty 
workmanship or defective materials. Another section of the policy says it doesnt cover 
damage caused by design problems  but that section is separate to subsidence and isnt 
relevant to this claim. So, under this policy, it seems RSA has chosen to cover subsidence 
claims involving design problems  but not those caused by faulty workmanship or materials.
The onus is on RSA to show the damage was caused by faulty workmanship or materials in 
order to decline the claim. Ill consider the arguments made and the evidence provided.
The first step in deciding whether something is faulty or defective is usually to decide what 
set of standards to judge it by. And thats often based upon when it was built.
Miss O said her conservatory was built in 2005 but the loss adjuster understood it to be 
2007. In its final response, RSA quoted Building Regulations which applied from 2013. 
Based on the information Miss Os provided, Im satisfied its likely to have been 2005. I think 
RSA has since agreed with that, so I wont go into this point further.
The loss adjuster said conservatories are often exempt from Building Regulations, but 
foundations should be designed according to good building practice. It thought that meant a 
foundation depth of at least 1,000mm in made ground. RSA relied on Building Regulations 
which said foundations in highly shrinkable clay soils should be at least 1,000mm deep. 
When it became clear earlier Regulations applied, RSA thought the relevant Regulations 
said the foundation ought to be at least 750mm deep in clay soils.
The investigator didnt think the guidance for clay soils applied to made ground. RSA initially 
said it did, seemed to accept it didnt, then said the foundation ought to be at least 2,000mm 
deep in made ground. RSA didnt provide any Regulations or other guidance to support its 
point of view about the minimum foundation depth for made ground.
At the time Miss Os conservatory was built, the relevant Building Regulations were those 
updated in 2004. They required a minimum depth in all soil types of 450mm. They set out a 
greater minimum depth for clay soil but theres nothing to indicate this applies to made 
ground. I havent seen any evidence to support RSAs comments about other minimum 
depths in made ground. So Im satisfied Building Regulations required a minimum foundation 
depth of 450mm in made ground.
Most conservatories are exempt from these Regulations and, based on how Miss O has 
described it, I think its likely hers is exempt. That means it wasnt required to comply with 
the Regulations. But I still think its reasonable to expect the conservatory to be built to a 
good standard and that means taking into account relevant guidance and best practice of the 
time. Building Regulations are a credible source of such guidance. So whilst the 
conservatory wasnt subject to Regulations, I think it would have been reasonable to take 
them into account  including the minimum foundation depth.
RSA initially said the foundation of Miss Os conservatory was 800mm deep. It revised this to 
700mm and later said it was 500mm. The ground investigation it carried out below the 
conservatory showed a foundation depth of 500mm. So the foundation exceeded the 
minimum requirement of Building Regulations, despite not needing to comply with it.
After our investigator said the complaint should be upheld, RSA reviewed the evidence again 
and made a number of points. It noted Building Regulations say made ground can impair the 
stability of the structure and thought this meant made ground wasnt a suitable soil to 
support a foundation. Whilst this casts doubt on the design of the foundation, it hasnt 
persuaded me the workmanship or materials were faulty or defective.
Taking into account all the points RSA has made, its focus has been on the depth of the 
foundation and the material underneath it. I consider these factors to be part of the design  
choosing the specification of the foundation based on the site conditions. I dont think the 
materials used have been questioned. And RSAs concerns about the way the conservatory 
was built are limited to the design of the foundation. I havent seen any reference to the 
workmanship, such as the skill and care used to implement the design.
Because of this, Im not satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim. To put things right, 
it should now accept the claim.
The claim was declined in August 2020. Had RSA accepted the claim then, it would have 
avoided the delays in dealing with the problem for Miss O. In the meantime shes lived with 
damage  and the uncertainty of when it will be dealt with and how it will be paid for. So I 
think it would be fair for RSA to pay compensation. Im satisfied £150 is fair.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
accept the subsidence claim
pay £150 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman