DRN-3935514
The complaint
Mrs W says Capital Professional Limited (CPL) caused delays to the liquidation of assets in 
her late husbands Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to the transfer of proceeds 
into her SIPP, leading to a financial loss. CPL disagrees. It says its actions were reasonable 
and that delays were caused by other parties in the process.
Curtis Banks (CB) was the SIPP provider. CPL managed Mrs Ws husbands SIPP 
account/investments. Within the SIPP was an EFG Harris Allday fund (the EFG fund), and 
EFG Harris Allday (EFG) was the fund manager. The complaint referred to this service 
began as one against CB, then a separate complaint was set up with CPL as the 
respondent. This decision is about the complaint against CPL.
What happened
Mrs Ws husband passed away in 2020. She was the beneficiary of his SIPP. CB was 
informed of his passing in October that year. By February 2021 CB had concluded formal 
verifications of his passing and of her beneficiary status, and by April 2021 a SIPP had been 
established for her in order to have the EFG fund reassigned to it. In the same month she 
says it became apparent that the reassignment was experiencing delays and that it would be 
quicker to liquidate the EFG fund and transfer the proceeds to her SIPP in cash. She 
instructed this and CB confirmed receipt of the instruction. 
Her claim is that she had a plan to reinvest the cash in Rathbone and Bailie Gifford funds 
(the R&BG funds), that execution of her instruction ought reasonably to have been 
completed before or by 27 May 2021 (when investment in the R&BG funds would probably 
have happened), and that instead she was not in a position to make the investments until 3 
September 2021 (when they were made). She says more investment units could have been 
bought with the cash at the prices on 27 May than were bought on 3 September, and that 
she incurred a loss of almost £29,000 in this respect. 
Mrs W, CB and CPL have set out their versions of the chronology of events in 2021.
In the main, Mrs W says  on 4 May CB confirmed her instruction had been received but it 
was still awaiting news on liquidation of the EFG fund; on 23 June she sent a draft complaint 
about the delay to CB, asking it to check its contents and to then forward the complaint to 
EFG; on 29 June CB confirmed that the cash had been received from EFG but it had to be 
matched to her husbands SIPP before being transferred to hers; on 9 July CB confirmed it 
had received the cash from EFG on 25 June; on 15 July she logged into her SIPP account 
and could see the transferred cash had been received; thereafter her engagements were 
with CB and with her financial adviser, with regards to investing in the R&BG funds; she was 
advised to invest directly through a Stocktrade account so she applied for this on 3 August 
and the account was set up by 26 August; the liquidated cash was transferred to the 
Stocktrade account on 27 August; and the investments were made on 3 September.
In the main, CB says  it received Mrs Ws instruction on 19 April and raised the associated 
Origo transfer request two working days later; it chased CPL with regards to the request; 
CPL replied on 13 May and said it required various legal documents, including Mrs Ws 
husbands will, the death certificate and the Grant of Probate(GoP), before the liquidation 
and closure (of the EFG portfolio) could proceed; it did not have the GoP but sent CPL the 
Trustee Record (which confirmed the death and Mrs Ws beneficiary status) on 20 May; CPL 
then asked for the documents related to the Trustee Record, this appeared to be an 
unnecessary request but it shared the death certificate in order to facilitate the process; it did 
not receive the liquidated cash until 1 July; the receipt was then reconciled; on 7 July it was 
transferred to Mrs Ws SIPP; and was credited to her SIPP on 9 July. CB has also 
summarised events thereafter, in relation to the reinvestment of the cash.
CPL mainly says  it received EFGs email of 30 April enclosing CBs portfolio closure 
request and seeking its instruction, no documentation on Mr Ws husbands death was 
provided; it asked EFG for the closure form needed in the process and on 13 May EFG 
confirmed it did not have any of the said documentation; on the same date it put its request 
for the documentation to CB; it reminded CB of this request on 18 May; it received the 
Trustee Record from CB on 20 May, but nothing else; on 24 May it told CB it required the 
death certificate as a minimum; on 27 May it received the death certificate and on the same 
date it completed the EFG closure form; the form was sent to EFG on 1 June; it chased EFG 
on 3 and 7 June; on 8 June EFG said instructions from CPL were required; this was clarified 
on 9 June and on 10 June dealing instructions to liquidate were given to EFG; all liquidations 
were settled by 23 June, and on this date it chased EFG to resolve a small dividend amount 
and to confirm there were no outstanding fees/charges; it chased further on 24 June; and on 
25 June it remitted the liquidated cash to CB.
Two of our investigators looked into the case and both concluded that it should be upheld. 
The second investigator revised some of the earlier findings on the parties roles and on 
redress. In the main, she said:
CBs Trustees of the SIPP legally owned the SIPPs assets. Mrs W had been 
confirmed, by the Trustees, as the sole beneficiary of those assets, and that had 
been done after verification of relevant documents (including her husbands 
beneficiary nomination, his will and the death certificate). 
CB asked EFG, directly, to liquidate the EFG fund on 28 April. CPL needed to 
instruct and act to achieve this (and to close the account), so EFG put that request to 
CPL on the following day. Around a week thereafter CPL asked EFG for the death 
related documentation, and three days after that it asked CB for the same. A week 
after that CB shared the Trustee Record. That ought to have been enough, given that 
the Trustees owned the fund and had verified Mrs Ws husbands death. As such, it 
was unreasonable for CPL to delay the process until it received the death certificate. 
It is noteworthy that earlier, in January 2021, CB had notified CPL of his passing so it 
had the time, previously, to request any documentation it wanted.
Having received notice of the requested liquidation on 29 April, CPL did not issue the 
required dealing instructions until 10 June. That was unduly delayed. It ought 
reasonably to have issued the instructions within five working days and by 7 May. 
Based on the actual time taken after 10 June to complete the liquidation and transfer, 
if the dealing instructions had been issued on 7 May the cash proceeds would have 
been received in Mrs Ws SIPP around 24 May.
CPL had no control over the subsequent events and it would not be fair to hold it 
responsible in those respects. However, if the cash had been paid to Mrs Ws SIPP 
on 24 May, and using the actual timescale for the subsequent events, it could have 
been invested by 27 July.Redress to Mrs W should relate to the notional cash value that could have been 
achieved if the liquidation dealing instructions were given on 7 May, and to what the 
fair value of her SIPP would be had that cash value (minus the £1,000 she retained 
in cash) been invested in the R&BG funds on 27 July. In addition, CPL should also 
pay her £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her during the process and during a 
sensitive period for her (in the aftermath of her husbands passing).
CPL disagreed with this outcome. It objected to being held responsible for EFGs role in the 
process and said the outcome did not consider the delays by CB. The investigator said her 
findings had not done the former. She also noted that her findings had not held CPL 
responsible for the events after the cash was paid into Mrs Ws SIPP. It also disputed the 
notice from CB in January 2021 that she had referred to, and said its records show the first 
documented note of Mrs Ws husbands death was on 9 June. It argued that it was 
responsible for the withdrawing of monies so it required sight of the death certificate before 
proceeding. 
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as that expressed by both 
investigators. I uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and I do so on broadly the same grounds as those 
set out by the second investigator.
The case, and my decision, is only about CPL and its role in the liquidation, transfer and 
reinvestment process. As the investigator said, the last part of the process  the 
reinvestment of cash, within Mrs Ws SIPP, in the R&BG funds  was beyond CPLs 
involvement and control, so it would be unfair to hold it responsible in that respect. For this 
reason, and because the present complaint is not about CB, is not about Mrs Ws financial 
adviser, and is not about Stocktrade  all of whom featured in the reinvestment part of the 
process  I make no finding about the time it took to reinvest the cash after it was received in 
the SIPP. Like the investigator, and for the purpose of my findings, I acknowledge the 
timescale during this period as it was. 
The case, and my decision, is also not about EFG. CPL has stressed that EFG was/is 
independent and was not under its responsibility. I echo the investigators approach in this 
respect too. Like her, and for the purpose of my findings, I accept the factual timescale 
during the period in which EFG executed the liquidation deals CPL had placed. I make no 
finding about the time taken during this specific period because it featured only EFGs role 
and I am not determining a complaint about EFG. 
With regards to events before this period, I have noted CPLs disclaimer of responsibility for 
EFG and the suggestions in its chronology that it had to chase EFG on some occasions. 
EFG was the fund manager. CPL managed the investments in the SIPP and the requirement 
from Mrs W, through CB, was to liquidate the SIPPs investments and remit the proceeds to 
her SIPP. As such, primary responsibility rested with CPL to conduct the requisite liquidation 
dealing. 
The task was delayed for two main reasons  the time used in waiting for documentation 
from CB that CPL insisted upon before proceeding, and the delay between 27 May when it 
received the death certificate and 10 June when it eventually placed the necessary deals. 
EFG had nothing to do with the first. In terms of the second, I am not satisfied that EFG shares any responsibility for what appears to have been CPLs unawareness or uncertainty 
about having to directly place the deals. It seemingly expected EFG to conduct dealing upon 
CBs instructions, before realising that it (CPL) had to place the liquidation deals directly. On 
balance, given that it was the SIPPs investments manager it ought reasonably to have 
known that, and to have known that it needed to directly instruct closure of the EFG portfolio. 
EFG asked for instructions at the outset. For these reasons, I consider that the delay 
between 27 May and 10 June was ultimately its responsibility.
The delay prior to 27 May was also CPLs responsibility, and it was avoidable. 
On 29 April it knew about CBs correspondence with EFG on liquidating the EFG fund and 
closing the portfolio. EFG wrote to it on this date about the correspondence and in an early 
submission to this service CPL said it had previously and directly heard from CB on 21 April 
about liquidating the EFG fund and remitting the proceeds. Remittance of the proceeds was 
always due to CB, and on 25 June CPL sent it to CB. CBs Trustees legally owned the 
SIPPs assets, which CPL managed. These set relevant context.
I understand why CPL felt the need to seek an explanation from CB about the basis for the 
request. That was not unreasonable. However, it did not do this until around two weeks after 
29 April (on 13 May). It was responsible for that delay. It ought reasonably to have sought 
the explanation either soon after the letter it received on 21 April or, at the latest, between 29 
and 30 April. Had it done that, it is more likely (than not) that it would have received the 
Trustee Record (which confirmed CBs notice of the death and confirmed that it had settled 
Mrs Ws beneficiary status) much earlier. That document should have been enough to meet 
its enquiry. In the context summarised above, I am not persuaded that it needed to duplicate 
checks and verifications that CB and its Trustees had already concluded, so I do not 
consider that its additional requests were reasonable.
But for CPLs delay in clarifying CBs request and its delay in placing the liquidation deals, 
those deals would have been placed earlier. On balance, I agree that they would, and ought 
reasonably to, have been placed by 7 May (around two weeks after the letter of 21 April and 
around a week after contact from EFG on 29 April).
The above analysis should show that CPL has been held responsible only for the delays it 
caused and that it is not being held responsible for action or inaction by a third party.
The deals placed on 10 June were completed between 23 and 24 June, and the liquidated 
cash was sent to CB on 25 June, before clearing thereafter. The investments in the R&BG 
funds were not made until 3 September. A Total of 12 weeks passed between 10 June and 3 
September. But for CPLs delays, those 12 weeks would have run from 7 May and would 
have ended on 30 July. I acknowledge that the investigators calculation ended with the 
slightly earlier date of 27 July, mine uses the same calculation basis but ends with the date 
of 30 July, so this will be the date I use in determining redress below. Nevertheless, we 
share the same basis and common ground in terms of calculating when the investments 
would have been made in the R&GB funds, in Mrs Ws SIPP, if CPL had placed the 
liquidation deals by 7 May as it ought to have done.
On the above basis and analysis, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Mrs W close to the position she would probably now 
be in if CPL did not cause the aforementioned delays to the liquidation of the EFG fund and transfer of the proceeds; and if deals for the former had been placed on 7 May and if the 
proceeds had been reinvested by 30 July. 
There are three aspects to calculating compensation for Mrs W  first is consideration of the 
liquidation value that could have been achieved on 7 May, then consideration of the size of 
the reinvestments she could have made in the R&BG funds with that value on 30 July 
(compared to the size of the reinvestments made on 3 September), and then consideration 
of compensation for the trouble and upset she has been caused in the matter.
Available evidence is that 30% of the reinvestment was in the Rathbone Unit Trust 
Management Multi Asset Enhanced Growth Portfolio and 70% was in the Baillie Gifford & Co 
Managed B Nav fund. These investments, and their performance, serve as the natural 
benchmark for the redress comparison exercise between the start and end dates set out 
below. I assume, as did the investigator, that the investments have remained unchanged to 
date, and will remain the same up to the end date. If that is not the case, I will provide below 
for the redress calculation to reflect any changes. 
For the sake of the calculations, the start date is 30 July and the end date is the date of 
settlement. I repeat, the benchmark is defined as follows  for 30%, the Rathbone Unit Trust 
Management Multi Asset Enhanced Growth Portfolio and for 70%, the Baillie Gifford & Co 
Managed B Nav fund. 
My orders to CPL are set out below. Mrs W is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-
operatively with CPL to provide it with all information and documentation, relevant to its 
calculation of redress and needed to settle redress, that it does not already have.
what must CPL do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, CPL must:
Calculate the total value for which the EFG fund holding would have been sold if the 
liquation deals were placed on 7 May 2021. The result, minus the £1,000 cash that 
was retained, would have been available for reinvestment in Mrs Ws SIPP. The net 
result (with the £1,000 cash holding already subtracted) is A. A would have been 
reinvested on the start date.
Calculate the total units in the R&BG funds that Mrs Ws SIPP invested in on 3 
September 2021; the result is B; then calculate the total units, in the same funds 
and based on the same allocation split (as set out above), that her SIPP could have 
purchased with the cash value of A on the start date, and at the prices on this date. 
The result is C. 
If B is the same or greater than C, no compensation is due. 
If C is greater than B, compensation is due to Mrs W. In this case, CPL must 
calculate the difference. Then it must calculate the total monetary value of the 
difference based on the relevant funds units prices on the start date. The result is 
D.
Calculate the performance of D from the start to end dates based on the performance 
of the benchmark, assuming Mrs Ws investments in the R&BG funds have remained 
unchanged between both dates. If her investments have changed between both 
dates, reflect those changes as and when they happened (and associated 
performance) in the calculation. Pay Mrs W the monetary equivalent of D plus or minus the calculated performance  
the result and payment value is E'.
Make the payment to Mrs W within 28 days of receiving notice of her acceptance of 
this decision. If CPL does not make the payment to her within this period it must pay 
her E plus interest on E at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this 
decision up to the date the payment is settled/made to her. This is to compensate her 
for any undue settlement delay by CPL.
Pay the compensation into Mrs Ws pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly 
to her. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using her actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected 
retirement age. For example, if she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If 
she would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculations to Mrs W in a clear and simple format.
Pay Mrs W £300 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her, especially as it 
would have probably compounded her bereavement at the time. I consider this a fair 
award in the circumstances.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
In Mrs Ws case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2021) and 
the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2020, so the applicable compensation limit 
would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I order Capital Professional 
Limited to calculate and pay her redress (and compensation for trouble and upset) as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman