DRN-4401737
The complaint
Mr R has complained that a conditional sale agreement he has with Santander Consumer 
(UK) plc T/A Santander Consumer Finance (SCUK) wasnt settled.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, Mr R acquired a car (car 1) under a conditional 
sale agreement with SCUK in September 2021. The car cost around £20,300 and had 
repayments of £367.66 for five years. In January 2022 he decided to acquire another car 
(car 2) for around £35,750, also under a conditional sale agreement with SCUK. As part of 
the deal, he wanted to trade in car 1 and the dealer agreed to pay off the conditional sale 
agreement for car 1. 
A day after the agreement for car 1 was due to be settled a £367.66 payment went out of 
Mr Rs account for it. He contacted SCUK and its notes indicate it told Mr R once the 
settlement had cleared it would refund him. Mr R stopped paying the agreement for car 1 but 
the dealer hadnt settled it, so SCUK started contacting him about missed payments. Mr R 
contacted the dealer to find out what was happening. The dealer told Mr R it was in a dispute 
with SCUK and that it was trying to resolve things as soon as possible. The dealer offered to 
cover the payments until the dispute was resolved, but this didnt happen, so Mr R contacted 
SCUK to complain. 
SCUK sent its final response letter in May 2023. In summary, it said it stopped its 
relationship with the dealer because of complaints about it not settling agreements with 
SCUK. It said despite the dealer promising to pay, the agreement was never settled. It said it 
put a code on Mr Rs credit file to stop negative reporting in 2022.  But having passed the 
matter to its solicitors, it concluded it was Mr Rs responsibility to make sure payments were 
made to pay off the agreement. So it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the answer and referred his complaint to our service to consider. Our 
investigator said SCUK can be held responsible for the antecedent negotiations carried out 
by the dealer under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She said she thought the 
dealer had promised to settle the agreement for car 1 as part of those negotiations. She said 
Mr R wouldnt have entered into the agreement for car 2 had the dealer not promised to 
settle the agreement for car 1. She found SCUK should take responsibility and ultimately 
recommended SCUK:
Settle the agreement for car 1. 
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement for car 1 from January 
2022 onwards. 
Refund Mr R the 19 January 2022 payment of £367.66 with 8% simple annual 
interest from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr R £150 compensation. 
Mr R accepted the outcome, but SCUK didnt. In summary it said there was clearly an 
arrangement between Mr R and the dealer, and that they are responsible for clearing the 
outstanding balance. It said it cant see how it can be held responsible for debt owed by a 
third party. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr R and SCUK that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr R acquired both cars using a regulated conditional sale agreement with SCUK. Our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Like our investigator pointed out I think section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is 
relevant. This says:
56 Antecedent negotiations.
(1)In this Act antecedent negotiations  means any negotiations with the debtor or 
hirer
(a)conducted by the creditor or owner in relation to the making of any regulated 
agreement, or
(b)conducted by a credit-broker in relation to goods sold or proposed to be sold by 
the credit-broker to the creditor before forming the subject-matter of a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement within section 12(a), or
(c)conducted by the supplier in relation to a transaction financed or proposed to be 
financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement within section 12(b) or (c),
and negotiator  means the person by whom negotiations are so conducted with the 
debtor or hirer.
(2)Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall be 
deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent of the creditor as 
well as in his actual capacity.
(3)An agreement is void if, and to the extent that, it purports in relation to an actual or 
prospective regulated agreement
(a)to provide that a person acting as, or on behalf of, a negotiator is to be treated as 
the agent of the debtor or hirer, or
(b)to relieve a person from liability for acts or omissions of any person acting as, or 
on behalf of, a negotiator.
(4)For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin when 
the negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including communication by advertisement), and to include any representations made by the 
negotiator to the debtor or hirer and any other dealings between them.
This provision has the effect of deeming the supplying dealer to be the agent of SCUK in any 
antecedent negotiations. SCUK is responsible for the antecedent negotiations the supplying 
dealer carried out direct with Mr R. I think the negotiations were antecedent because they 
preceded the relevant conclusion of the agreement for car 2. 
The scope of negotiations and dealings is wide. And representations covers statements 
of fact, contractual statements and other undertakings. In this case, I think the dealer made 
representations relating to the agreement for car 1 when setting up the agreement for car 2. 
The dealer wanted to purchase car 1 and it agreed to settle the finance agreement attached 
to it. I think that formed part of the negotiations because they relate to Mr Rs entry into the 
agreement for car 2. 
Taking all this into account, I think the dealer was acting as SCUKs agent when negotiating 
with Mr R. I find that SCUK is also responsible for what was said. Therefore, I consider it fair 
that SCUK honour its agents promise to settle the agreement, which also happens to be 
with SCUK. I also think SCUK needs to refund Mr R the payment he made after the 
agreement was supposed to be settled. 
I agree adverse information should be removed from January 2022 onwards for the 
agreement for car 1, as this is when it should have been settled. I dont think Mr R has paid 
anything since then towards that agreement, so I dont need to direct SCUK to refund him 
anything else.
The matter also no doubt would have caused Mr R some distress as well. It mustve been 
very worrying to not know what was happening, and for SCUK to ultimately tell him he was 
liable for repaying the debt. Our investigator recommended £150 compensation and I find 
this to be broadly fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A 
Santander Consumer Finance to:
End the agreement for car 1 with nothing further to pay from Mr R and mark it as 
settled as of January 2022. 
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement for car 1 from January 
2022 onwards. 
Refund Mr R the 19 January 2022 payment of £367.66 with 8% simple annual 
interest* from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr R £150 compensation. 
*If SCUK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman