DRN-4230665
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he received from True Potential Wealth Management 
LLP to transfer his existing pension plan into a True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
personal pension. Mr H has claimed that the pension transfer advice that he received from 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP wasnt suitable. 
What happened
Mr H held an existing stakeholder pension plan. In this decision I will refer to the pension 
provider that Mr H held his existing pension plan with as Firm A.
Mr H was referred to True Potential for financial advice by a neighbour. Mr H had a meeting 
with an adviser from True Potential in March 2021.
At that meeting the True Potential adviser gathered information about Mr Hs financial 
position and recorded this information in a fact find. The information gathered by True 
Potential said that Mr H held a stakeholder pension with Firm A which was valued at 
£45,558, that Mr H was in his late 40s, married and in good health, he was unemployed, but 
was seeking new employment, and that his only income was unemployment benefit.
The fact find also recorded that Mr Hs only savings, aside from his Firm A pension plan, was 
£1,500 in a bank account, which was his emergency fund. It also recorded that Mr H lived in 
rented accommodation, had a balanced attitude to investment risk and had no financial 
capacity to make any contributions into a pension plan.
In April 2021, following on from the March 2021 meeting, True Potential sent a suitability 
report to Mr H. In this report True Potential recommended that Mr H transfer his Firm A 
stakeholder pension to a True Potential personal pension. 
In the suitability report True Potential explained their reason for recommending a pension 
transfer as follows:
You would like online access to view the performance of your investment, ability to free 
switch if needed, have 24 hour access and be able to impulse save. You can benefit from a 
fully diversified, lower cost and lower volatility portfolio which is managed on a discretionary 
basis by True Potential Investments. The exclusive fund you have selected provides 
numerous individual funds that are spread worldwide in every asset class to offer a fully 
diversified approach to your investment strategy. 
The suitability report confirmed Mr H would be charged 1% of the fund value for the initial 
advice (£455.58) as well as 1% of the fund value each year for on-going advice. The 
suitability report also contained a document headed Replacement Analysis Form. This was 
attached as an appendix to the report which detailed the difference in charges between Mr 
Hs existing Firm A plan and the proposed True Potential pension plan.
Mr H decided to go ahead with True Potentials recommendation to transfer his Firm A 
pension to a new True Potential personal pension. The transfer was completed on 12 April 
2021.
In December 2022 a litigation firm wrote to True Potential, on behalf of Mr H, to complain 
about the pension transfer advice given to Mr H by True Potential, claiming that Mr H had 
received negligent advice from True Potential and had suffered a financial loss as a result. 
True Potential responded to the litigation firms letter in February 2023 saying that the 
pension transfer advice given to Mr H was suitable and that therefore they didnt uphold Mr 
Hs complaint.
Mr H wasnt happy with True Potentials response, so he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, again through the litigation firm.
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. Their view was that the pension 
transfer advice that Mr H received from True Potential wasnt suitable and they therefore 
upheld Mr Hs complaint.
True Potential have responded to say that they dont agree with the Investigators view. Mr 
Hs complaint has therefore been brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint was raised through a litigation firm. The complaint letter prepared by the 
litigation firm contains errors and incorrect information about Mr Hs pension with Firm A. 
The letter also contains incorrect information about the type of pension plan and investment 
that Mr H set up with True Potential.
I have therefore focused my decision on the main point of complaint raised by Mr H, which 
was that the pension transfer advice that he received from True Potential wasnt suitable. 
Ive seen both the fact find information gathered by the True Potential adviser in March 2021 
and the suitability report sent to Mr H by True Potential in April 2021. 
In the suitability report sent in April 2021 Mr Hs goals are recorded by True Potential as 
follows:
"I would like to try to improve the growth on my retirement pot and am not satisfied with my 
current pension provider. I would like to have more control over the management of my 
pension funds in line with my retirement goals. I am hoping to retire at state retirement aged 
67 and feel that an amount of around 15000 a year would be sufficient to live on in 
retirement. I am expecting to be eligible for full state pension which will supplement my 
personal pension planning."
I have however not seen any detail that was gathered by True Potential to explain why Mr H 
was not satisfied with Firm A as his pension provider. Mr H has also said above that he 
wanted to have more control over the management of his pension funds. However, when Mr 
H completed paperwork to proceed with True Potentials advice he signed an authority which 
said the following:
I authorise True Potential Investments LLP      To undertake the day-to-day discretionary management of the investments held in the 
Portfolio. You agree that we are authorised to buy, vary and sell the investments held within 
the Portfolio from time to time, at our absolute discretion, provided that True Potential 
Investments operate within the objectives of the Portfolio.
I think that by signing this authority and thereby giving absolute discretion to True Potential 
to make changes to his investments without consulting him, Mr H would not have had more 
control over the management of his pension funds. 
  
Under the heading What We Agreed the suitability report went on to say:
To look at your portfolio and consolidate those assets listed below into True Potential One. 
True Potential One is our financial planning system that consolidates all of your savings and 
investments into one convenient location by grouping. By consolidating your investments, 
you know exactly how much you have and how much you need to reach your goals.
However, according to the fact find information gathered by True Potential, Mr H only had 
one pension plan, which was his Firm A pension plan which was invested into a single fund, 
when he met the True Potential adviser. He had no other savings or investments aside from 
his emergency fund of £1,500 in his bank account. I therefore dont think that the opportunity 
to consolidate all of your savings and investments into one convenient location by grouping 
was applicable to Mr H.
The suitability report stated that in order for Mr H to achieve his retirement goal of hoping to 
retire at state retirement aged 67 and feel that an amount of around 15000 a year would be 
sufficient to live on in retirement he needed to build a pension fund of £173,124 at his age 
67. To achieve this pension fund True Potential said that Mr H could either invest £33,220 
straight away or contribute £216 each month into his pension.
However, Mr H was unemployed and lived in rented accommodation when he met with the 
True Potential adviser. He had an emergency fund of £1,500 in his bank account and no 
other savings, investments or assets. The fact find completed by True Potential also stated 
that Mr H had no inheritances. The suitability report said that your current financial situation 
and affordability does not allow you to invest any additional funds. 
I therefore think that Mr H was not in a financial position to achieve the goals that True 
Potential had set out for him when they advised him to transfer his pension. 
True Potential have said that Mr H was actively seeking employment when he met with their 
adviser, and that he intended on working until he was 67. However, at the time that True 
Potential gave advice to Mr H, he was unemployed and had no capacity to save into a 
pension. I appreciate that Mr Hs circumstances could change after True Potential had 
advised Mr H, but I think it reasonable for True Potential to have based their advice on Mr 
Hs circumstances at the time that advice was given and not on what his circumstances may 
or may not be in the future.
The suitability report goes on to state the reasons why True Potentials investment platform, 
True Potential One, was recommended for Mr H. This says:
You would like online access to view the performance of your investment, ability to free 
switch if needed, have 24 hour access and be able to impulse save. You can benefit from a 
fully diversified, lower cost and lower volatility portfolio which is managed on a discretionary 
basis by True Potential Investments. The exclusive fund you have selected provides 
numerous individual funds that are spread worldwide in every asset class to offer a fully 
diversified approach to your investment strategy.True Potential have said that Mr H would have greater access to information via their client 
site and that this was something that wasnt available to him through his Firm A pension.
However, Firm A have said that Mr H had already registered for their online service, for 
which there was no extra fee or charge. Firm A have said that this online service gave Mr H 
access to the following:
The current value of Mr Hs Firm A pension plan (which included the number of units 
and unit price, fund name and fund factsheet for the fund/s invested in).
Information regarding pension contributions. 
Pension projections.
Details of beneficiaries on the plan.
There was also an option to make a single pension contribution.
It also had a link to the membersite, which allowed Mr H to make investment changes 
to his pension.
I therefore think that Mr H already had online access through his Firm A pension which 
allowed him to view the value of his pension plan. He therefore didnt need to transfer his 
pension to gain online access.
Mr H could therefore already make investment changes in his pension and make single 
pension contributions. He had 24 hour access to the service. This online service was 
available to him free of charge under Mr Hs Firm A plan, but True Potential charged Mr H a 
fee for their online platform under their personal pension.
In a section of the suitability report headed Replacement Analysis True Potential said:
During our discussions we looked at a fund with (Firm A) which matched your profile and 
attitude to risk more - the (investment manager) Global Equity Fund to make the cost 
comparison against the True Potential Balanced portfolio. The difference in cost to you is 
£213.14. A fund switch within the ceding scheme is available to you at no cost but this has 
been discounted because you would prefer to have your investment within a more diversified 
spread of risk rather than being mainly invested in Equities. Also you ceding scheme does 
not offer you the facility of online 24.7 portfolio valuations and messaging about your plan or 
the ability to make additional online extra payments into your account if you wish to, or the 
option of monitoring your pension instantly to recognise any potential shortfall in your 
pension planning.
However, Mr Hs Firm A pension wasnt invested in the Global Equity Fund that True 
Potential refer to above. Mr Hs Firm A pension was invested in Firm As Future Growth 
Fund.
True Potential have said that the Global Equity Fund matched Mr Hs profile and attitude to 
risk more. True Potential have said that Mr H was a Balanced Investor which they define 
as: The Balanced Investor may be somewhat concerned with short-term losses and may 
shift to a more stable option in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and 
return are typically of equal importance to the Balanced Investor. 
I have seen fund fact sheets for both the Global Equity Fund and Future Growth Fund from 
early 2021. These fact sheets state that the Future Growth fund had approximately 79% of its holdings invested in equities, whilst the Global Equity Fund had approximately 99% of its 
holdings in equities. 
But True Potential state that Mr H wanted a spread of risk rather than being mainly invested 
in Equities.  Also, in their final response letter to Mr Hs complaint, True Potential say that 
the Future Growth Fund didnt meet Mr Hs balanced risk profile. They said: Our 
assessment of Mr Hs risk profile was that of a Balanced investor, where you would generally 
expect around 60% exposure to equities. The fund he was in previously was more aligned to 
a Capital Growth investor, and therefore exceeded his risk tolerance.
True Potential had therefore said that Mr Hs existing investment in the Future Growth fund 
exceeded his risk profile as it had more than 60% of its holdings in equities. But True 
Potential then selected an alternative Firm A fund, the Global Equity Fund, that had 
significantly more invested in equities than Mr Hs existing investment, and then discounted 
a fund switch. I therefore dont think that the Global Equity Fund matched Mr Hs profile and 
attitude to risk more as True Potential said.  
Firm A have said that there were over 90 different investment funds available to Mr H under 
his Firm A plan and have provided details of all of the funds that were available. 
I think it likely that with over 90 funds available to Mr H, some of these funds would 
reasonably have met the balanced risk definition above and would also have provided a 
spread of risk rather than being mainly invested in Equities as True Potential said that Mr H 
preferred. I think that they would also have allowed Mr H to hold a portfolio invested across 
different asset classes. Mr H was able to invest in more than one fund under his Firm A 
pension. Fund switches within Mr Hs Firm A pension couldve been made free of charge.
I also think that the difference in costs of £213.14 as shown above in the Replacement 
Analysis above was not applicable to Mr H. This is because the analysis used a fund (the 
Global Equity Fund) that Mr H wasnt invested in and, as True Potential said, didnt meet his 
preference. 
Instead, I think that it would have been fair and reasonable for True Potential to calculate the 
difference in costs shown in this section of the suitability report between their 
recommendation and the fund that Mr Hs Firm A pension was actually invested in when they 
advised Mr H, which was the Future Growth Fund. 
As the charges applying to Firm As Global Equity Fund were more than those applying to 
the Future Growth Fund, then the actual difference in costs between Mr Hs Firm A plan and 
True Potentials recommendation was higher than the figure of £213.14 shown in True 
Potentials Replacement Analysis above. 
I therefore think that by True Potential using a fund that had a higher charge than the one 
that Mr Hs Firm A pension was actually invested in, when calculating the difference in cost 
shown in their Replacement Analysis, they gave Mr H a false impression of the cost 
difference. 
True Potential also said in their Replacement Analysis that Mr H would benefit from a 
lower cost portfolio. But the costs applied by True Potential were higher than those that Mr 
H was paying under his Firm A pension. I therefore dont think that Mr H did benefit from a 
lower cost portfolio.
The suitability report prepared by True Potential also contained a document headed 
Replacement Analysis Form. This was attached as an appendix to the suitability report. 
This detailed the difference in charges between Mr Hs existing Firm A plan and the proposed True Potential plan. 
True Potential have said that the costs of transferring were clearly disclosed to Mr H in this 
Replacement Analysis Form, so I have therefore considered the information set out in this 
document.
There was a single charge applying to Mr Hs Firm A plan shown in the Replacement 
Analysis Form. This was the investment fund annual management charge applying to Mr 
Hs holding in the Future Growth Fund, which was 0.4% a year. Based on a fund value of 
£45,558 this equalled £182 a year, as was shown on the Replacement Analysis Form.
The charges information for the recommended True Potential solution showed a platform fee 
of 0.4% a year, as well as a fund charge of 0.8% a year. True Potential therefore show total 
yearly costs of £545.72 applying under their recommended solution based on a fund value of 
£45,558.
However, the Replacement Analysis Form didnt include True Potentials ongoing advice 
fee of 1% a year, which was detailed elsewhere within the suitability report. Based on a fund 
value of £45,558 this equalled £455. 
I think it would have been reasonable for True Potentials Replacement Analysis Form to 
have included the ongoing advice fee, so that the analysis could then show all of the yearly 
costs that Mr H would incur if he followed True Potentials advice. 
Including True Potentials ongoing advice fee would bring the total annual costs for their 
recommended solution to £1,000, instead of the figure of £545 as shown on the 
Replacement Analysis Form.
I think that this meant that, based on a pension value of £45,558, the increase in yearly costs 
for Mr H was £818 or 1.8%, and not the figure of £363, or 0.8%, as True Potential had stated 
in the Replacement Analysis Form.
True Potential did show their initial advice fee of 1% in the Replacement Analysis Form. 
However, to show the impact of this initial fee True Potential had divided the fee by the 
Term in years/term to retirement, which they had shown as 33 years. 
This meant that True Potential showed the impact of their initial fee of 1% (which was £545) 
as only 0.03% a year, which equalled £13.80 a year.
Mr H was age 49 when he received advice from True Potential in 2021. Therefore, by using 
a term of 33 years to show the impact of their initial fee, True Potential have assumed that 
Mr H would retain his pension plan with them until he was age 82. 
However, the term to Mr Hs retirement was 18 years, and True Potentials analysis shown 
elsewhere within the suitability report showed that Mr H would exhaust his pension fund by 
age 76. I therefore dont think that using a term of 33 years was fair or reasonable. I think 
that a term of 33 years was too long and had the effect of reducing the impact of the initial 
advice fee in True Potentials Replacement Analysis Form.
I therefore dont think that Mr H was clearly shown details of the full additional yearly costs 
that he would pay in True Potentials Replacement Analysis Form. 
Ive also considered the total charges that Mr H wouldve had deducted from his True 
Potential pension in the first year following the transfer of his Firm A pension. In addition to 
the annual charges applied by True Potential, Mr H would also have had True Potentials initial fee taken from his pension in the first year. The initial fee was 1%, so when added to 
the annual fees of 2.2%, a total 3.2% in costs was deducted from Mr Hs True Potential 
pension in its first year. Mr H had no financial capacity to make any pension contribution to 
try and offset some of these extra costs.
I have therefore decided, for the various reasons detailed above, that the advice given to Mr 
H by True Potential for him to transfer his pension plan from Firm A to a new True Potential 
pension wasnt suitable and Im therefore upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Mr H should not have been advised to 
transfer his Firm A pension into a True Potential pension. I therefore think that a reasonable 
approach would be for True Potential to put Mr H back in the position he would have been in, 
as far as is reasonably possible, had it not been for their failings.
True Potential have however said that: The existing investment with (Firm A) was subject to 
higher risk than the clients Attitude to Risk (ATR), and as such asking for a comparison to 
that fund as redress is in our view unjust and inaccurate. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to show whether or not Mr H wouldve changed the 
investment in his Firm A plan if it had been retained. Also, when True Potential picked an 
alternative Firm A fund in their analysis for Mr H, they selected a higher risk fund. I therefore 
think that its reasonable to use the fund that Mr Hs Firm A pension was invested in at the 
time True Potential provided advice when calculating redress. 
I think that True Potential should therefore make an assessment to consider what, if any, 
losses Mr H suffered as a result of their failings. True Potential should:
Contact Firm A to obtain the current notional value of Mr Hs pension plan had it 
remained invested in the same fund that it was invested in at the point that the 
pension transfer to True Potential was made. This is figure X.
Calculate the current actual value of the transfer value invested into Mr Hs True 
Potential pension. This is figure Y.
The actual value (Y) should be compared with the notional value (X) of Mr Hs 
pension. If the actual value (Y) is greater than the notional value (X), there is no 
loss and no compensation is payable. If the notional value (X) is greater than the 
actual value (Y), there is a loss and compensation is payable.
If, having completed their calculations, True Potential identify a loss they should also 
pay interest on this loss, calculated from the date that Mr Hs Firm A pension was 
transferred to True Potential to the date of settlement at 8% simple per annum. 
If there is a loss, True Potential should pay into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of any compensation and interest.  
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If True Potential is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount directly to him. However, had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have provided Mr H with a taxable income. Therefore, if compensation 
has to be paid directly to Mr H then the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount, it isnt a payment of tax 
to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think it reasonable, based upon Mr Hs financial 
position as set out in the fact find completed by True Potential, to assume that Mr H will be a 
basic rate income tax-payer when he retires. 
However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. 
I also think that True Potential need to pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience he 
has suffered as a result of their failings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP who now need to compensate Mr H as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman