DRN-3501602
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited did not report her payments made accurately with the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mrs M is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs M herself.
What happened
Mrs M says that MBNA have been reporting missed payments to the CRAs between 
November 2018 - March 2019 on her account, despite the existence of an arrangement to 
pay being in place and her account being administered as part of a debt management 
charity plan. She says that MBNA were aware of this and were receiving monthly payments 
in line with this plan (and her two other accounts she has with them). 
Mrs M said that on 29 November 2018, MBNA sent her a letter and they acknowledged the 
offer of the payment (which was paid to MBNA through the debt management charity). Mrs 
M made a complaint to MBNA and she asked them to update her credit file to reflect an 
arrangement to pay status, which she says was the accurate status of her accounts during 
the timeframe in question. This is because she did not believe she was missing payments 
(as she was making payments in line with a debt management charity plan).
MBNA did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They said her credit file reported the correct 
information and after reviewing the offers they received from the debt management charity, it 
was clear that she was unable to maintain the required minimum payments on her account. 
MBNA said the offer of payments were not enough to put her on a formal reduced payment 
programme, however, any payments that were made were accepted by them and they 
reduced her outstanding balance. MBNA said that as the payments were less than the 
required amount each month, they would show as a missed payment on her credit file. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. She said as the voluntary monthly payments were lower than the minimum 
required monthly repayments, they are shown as missed payments with CRAs. She said 
Mrs M missed the minimum monthly repayment during the timeframe in question, so the 
voluntary £5 payments were accurately recorded as missed payments to the CRAs.
Mrs M asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that if MBNA simply left the missed payment markers in place, but also 
correctly reported that a Debt Management Plan (DMP) was in existence for the period in 
question, this would not trivialise the fact that a contractual payment was not received. She 
said it would reflect that at least some of the payment was in fact received and it would have 
the same effect of reflecting that Mrs M was taking positive steps to address the debt. Mrs M 
said she had not seen any evidence that either she, or the debt management charity were 
told that MBNA would not be reporting the debt management plan at all to the CRAs and 
they would only be reporting "missed payment" markers and eventually the default.
Mrs M also said that for MBNA to suggest that payments were missed completely was 
inaccurate and she shouldnt be penalised for taking positive action to address the debt. She 
said it was difficult to see what she gained from making a payment if her credit file was not 
going to reflect the steps she was taking. She said the crux of the matter appeared to be that 
she wouldve been better off simply avoiding payments until the account had defaulted, as 
MBNA would have reported the actions in exactly the same way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs M has already had a decision issued on two of her three accounts she 
had with MBNA. So this decision here will focus on the remaining account. Im aware that 
the events which occurred on all three accounts happened around the same time and Mrs M 
raised similar concerns around each account, so my decision may appear to be similar to 
other decisions she may have received. But I can assure her Ive looked at her individual 
circumstances of her complaint about this account solely when making my decision about 
what is fair and reasonable here. 
Mrs M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
MBNA would be required to accurately report Mrs Ms payment status to the CRAs. I know 
both parties have different views about what should have been reported to the CRAs. So 
Ive considered whether MBNA have acted outside of how I would expect them to report the 
payment status/history of the account involved here.
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what should or 
shouldnt be reported. The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and 
it has released a document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and 
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonable to rely on this, because 
when determining a complaint, amongst other things, I am required to take into account 
good industry practice and in my view, these principles constitute good industry practice in 
this area.
Section three of this document shows If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is 
reported (to the CRAs) will depend on whether it is agreed with the lender. As MBNA have 
confirmed Mrs Ms income and expenditure at the time it was completed showed she had no 
disposable income to make payments to her accounts, then MBNA have said they would be 
unable to ask Mrs M to make any payments to her accounts. So they were unable to agree 
an arrangement to pay with Mrs M. 
Mrs M has shared with our service the letter she received from MBNA about the repayment 
offer, dated 29 November 2018. But Im not persuaded that the letter indicates that MBNA 
accepted an arrangement to pay on her account. I say this as the letter sets out she may 
make the payment (she has) offered of £5.00 per month, as opposed to them stating they 
have accepted an offer from her. 
The letter also states that the repayment offer you have made will not be sufficient to 
prevent us registering a default with the credit reference agencies even if you continue to 
maintain payments at this level, which would be another indication that an arrangement has 
not been agreed, as an arrangement to pay would usually avoid a default being recorded (providing the arrangement was adhered to), whereas the letter Mrs M received showed she 
would be unable to avoid a default based on the £5 payment she had offered.
I have considered that the letter also says If you do not make the agreed monthly payments 
we may take further action. But Im persuaded this is in the context of Mrs M not meeting 
the £5 payment that she offered as opposed to MBNA agreeing a payment as an 
arrangement. This section refers Mrs M to the frequently asked questions, which go on to 
state if you miss your repayment we may be contacting you, or your appointed 
representative (if applicable) by phone or letter to determine if your personal or financial 
circumstances have changed. So Im not persuaded this meant MBNA accepted an 
arrangement to pay here.
Also, before the account was defaulted, MBNA sent Mrs M a letter dated 14 March 2019, 
which said If we don't receive payment for the full amount or agree a repayment plan, we 
will also register a default with the credit reference agencies. So again, this does not 
indicate that a payment plan has been agreed with them. I say this as the letter indicates 
they would need to agree to a repayment plan (or receive a full payment) to avoid a default.
As Im satisfied that MBNA have not accepted an agreement to an arrangement to pay from 
either Mrs M or the debt management charity, Ive considered what the principles say in 
regards to this scenario. And Im satisfied this would be in line with the unacceptable and 
token payments section. This section states that if your lender does not agree a reduced or 
revised payment with you because the amount you offer to the lender is not acceptable, for 
example, a very low or token payment, the account will not be reported as an arrangement 
or a DMP negotiated by a third party. Any payments you make will be reflected in the current 
balance, arrears will continue to accrue and a default may be recorded.
So because the £5 which was offered by Mrs M was not acceptable to MBNA, this is why the 
account was not reported to the CRAs as an arrangement to pay or reported as a DMP 
negotiated by a debt management charity. So while Mrs M would like her credit file to be 
updated to reflect this, Im not persuaded that MBNA have done anything wrong by not 
changing the status of the accounts to show an arrangement to pay or a debt management 
plan.
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about her taking positive steps to address the debt and 
she would have been better off simply avoiding payments until the account was defaulted as 
the business would have reported such negative actions exactly the same way. She also 
mentioned the missed payment status appears as if MBNA are suggesting that payments 
are missed completely. But Im not persuaded MBNA have suggested this and Ill explain 
why.
MBNA would have no control over how different CRAs display the information they give 
them. But Im satisfied that MBNA have given the CRAs the correct information. I say this 
because Mrs M has provided our service with screenshots from several different companies 
which extract data from the CRAs even if some of these companies dont appear to be 
directly CRAs themselves
One of the screenshots that Mrs M provided to our service, shows a defaulted balance and 
the current balance, which are different. Underneath, it shows a line which has numbers and 
a white tick in a green box. The outstanding balance at the time of the tick is shown and then 
for every month after that the outstanding balance reduces by £5 a month. 
So Im satisfied that an outside party would be able to see that MBNA have told the CRAs 
that Mrs Ms balance was reducing and therefore she was clearly trying to be proactive in 
reducing her arrears in what was undoubtedly a difficult time for her. So I cant agree that this would have the same effect as if she didnt make any payments. And Im not persuaded 
that MBNA were suggesting the payments were completely missed based on them showing 
the balance was constantly reducing while she was making £5 a month payments. 
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about there being no mention that the arrangement 
would not be reported to the CRAs, or that missed payments would be reported. But as Ive 
already explained, Im not persuaded that MBNA agreed to an arrangement to pay. MBNA 
reported the payment status as they are expected to, showing the arrears (but also reflecting 
the payments that she has made). They also told her in a letter dated 14 March 2019 that 
as your account is in arrears, your credit file at the credit reference agencies has been 
updated to show this. It's normal for us to notify the credit reference agencies in this way.
Ive looked at MBNAs draft terms and conditions on their website. Under section A7 it talks 
about minimum payments. It says missing payments could have severe consequences, 
such as legal action against you to recover your debt or negative feedback from us to credit 
reference agencies. So while Mrs M did make payments, she missed the minimum payment 
to her account, so as such, as per the terms and conditions, MBNA passed this information 
to the CRAs. 
Mrs M may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to explain 
what happened during the timeframe in question. This is a short explanatory note that she 
can add to an entry on her credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who 
searches her credit report would see the notice of correction and take the notice into account 
if they viewed her credit file. Mrs M would need to contact the CRAs to do this. But as 
MBNA reported the payment history in line with how they would be expected to, it follows I 
wont be asking MBNA to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman