DRN-4402502
The complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement he was offered after he made a claim under his home 
insurance policy with Highway Insurance Company Limited. Hes also raised concerns about 
the customer service he received.
Highway is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Highway has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Highway includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy with Highway after some 
items went missing while in the care of a removal company. Mr B says three items of 
jewellery went missing, including his wifes engagement ring. There was also some damage 
to some other items.
Mr B was unhappy with the settlement he was offered for the jewellery. Mr B said the 
engagement ring was a specified item on his policy. However, it wasnt showing as a 
specified item on Highways records, so it contacted the broker who had sold the policy to  
Mr B to gather some more information.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Highway said the ring wasnt listed under the specified 
items in the policy of 2022/2023, although it had been specified on the previous years 
policy. It said the brokers had sent Highway a transcript of the call in which Mr B had 
discussed the renewal of his policy. A price had been given to him without specified items 
and he was happy with this.
Highway said the broker was comfortable Mr B understood and knew the ring wasnt 
specified and policy documents were sent to him to confirm this. The limit for the ring was 
£1,500.
Highway apologised for not responding to Mr Bs emails which it said were sent to the wrong 
department. It said it had asked for the valuation of the necklace to be reviewed.
Our investigator thought Highways settlement offer for the engagement ring was fair. She 
wasnt persuaded that Highways initial valuation of the other items was unreasonable, 
based on the information it had at the time. And she thought it was reasonable for Highway 
to offer to review these valuations in response to Mr Bs complaint. Our investigator thought 
Highway was responsible for some delay and communication issues. She recommended 
Highway pay Mr B £150 to compensate him for distress and inconvenience hed experienced 
as a result. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. He also commented that it wasnt clear why 
his complaint was set up against Highway when he didnt believe he had a contractual 
arrangement with it. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Mr B has queried why his complaint has been set up against Highway when he doesnt 
believe he has a contractual relationship with it. 
I appreciate Mr B has been dealing with other parties in relation to his claim and complaint. 
However, the Financial Conduct Authority says the underwriter of a policy is responsible for 
claims, even where the decision has been taken by an administrator or loss adjuster working 
on its behalf. This is so even when the administrator or loss adjuster is a regulated firm in its 
own right.
Mr Bs policy schedule shows that the policy is underwritten by Highway Insurance 
Company Limited. So, Im satisfied that Highway is the correct business to respond to       
Mr Bs complaint about the handling and settlement of his claim.
As our investigator has previously explained, if Mr B has concerns about the sale of his 
policy, the correct respondent business for this would be the broker who sold it to him. Mr B 
would firstly need to raise a separate complaint against the broker if he wanted our service 
to consider this.
In this decision, I will only be considering matters Mr B has complained of that Highway is 
responsible for up to the date it sent its final response to his complaint in February 2023.
Settlement offer for engagement ring
The policys terms and conditions say that to settle a claim Highway will pay for loss or 
damage to your personal property up to the sum insured shown under the personal 
possessions section on your Schedule of Insurance. The maximum amount your insurer will 
pay for one item, pair or set is £1,500.
The terms go on to say Highway will pay for loss or damage to specified personal property 
up to the amount shown for each item on your Schedule of Insurance.
Personal Property is defined as: Clothing, personal belongings and high risk property that 
you normally wear or carry with you
The definition of High Risk Property includes Articles of jewellery, pearls, gemstones, gold, 
silver and precious metal.
Mr Bs policy schedule for the period the claim falls under (January 2022 to January 2023) 
states the limits of cover as follows:
High risk property total £9,250
 High risk property single item limit £1,500
 Personal Possessions
 Personal property sum insured £2,500 Singe item limit £1,500
No specified personal property is showing on the schedule. 
I can see Mr B provided a valuation certificate for the engagement ring which stated it was 
worth £3,550. However, Highway says the item was capped at £1,500. Given what it says on 
the schedule, I think this was correct.
Mr Bs schedule for the previous policy year (January 2021 to January 2022) is showing a 
Personal property sum insured limit of cover of £5,000. The engagement ring is listed 
under Specified Personal Property with a sum insured of £3,000.
After Mr B raised concerns about the settlement he was offered for the ring, Highway 
contacted the broker who sold the policy to him in order to establish if it might have been 
removed from Mr Bs policy due to an administrative error at renewal. The broker provided 
Highway with a summary of Mr Bs conversation with its representative at renewal. 
According to this summary, there was a discussion about the engagement ring and a 
wedding ring. The representative told Mr B that in order to claim, he would need to provide 
an independent valuation dated in the last three years. The representative said the 
engagement ring would need to be itemised, but it depended whether the wedding ring was 
under or over £1,500. The representative said there was no point putting the rings on the 
policy if they werent covered. They agreed on £2,500 cover for the unspecified items and  
Mr B was given a price without specified items which he was happy with. The representative 
said the rings could be added on when Mr B got a valuation.
It would seem from the above, that the change to the policy at renewal was intentional, 
rather than being as a result of an administrative error. In any event, I think its clear from the 
policy documents that the highest amount Mr B could claim for a single item was £1,500. So, 
Im satisfied that Highways settlement offer for the engagement ring is fair and in line with 
the policys terms and conditions.
Other jewellery items
Mr B also raised concerns with the settlement he was offered for other jewellery items he 
was claiming for. 
Highway says that its initial offer was based on a valuation its jewellery experts had made 
from a description of them. In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Highway said it was 
arranging for the valuation to be reviewed. I understand Highway has since increased the 
amount offered for both the necklace and earrings. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr B has raised concerns about Highways communication of this offer to him in July 2023. 
Hes also unhappy that the settlement offer was for vouchers and would like the full amount 
to be settled by cash. However, as our investigator has explained, these concerns are 
beyond the scope of this complaint. So, I havent considered them here.
Customer service
Highway says some of the delay in dealing with Mr Bs claim was because it was chasing for 
information from the broker. However, it has acknowledged being responsible for some 
delay outside of this and has agreed to pay the £150 our investigator recommended for 
distress and inconvenience.I understand Mr B experienced some difficulty contacting Highway. He was kept on hold for 
long periods of time and some calls were disconnected. This was no doubt frustrating for 
him. However, I think £150 reasonably recognises any distress and inconvenience Mr B 
experienced as a result of poor communication and delays Highway is responsible for, up to 
February 2023. So, I havent found reason to increase it above the amount our investigator 
recommended.
Putting things right
Highway should pay Mr B £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Highway Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman