DRN-2526412
The complaint
Ms F complains about the way Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (Somerset) 
administered her car insurance policy. In particular, the fact it wouldnt grant her an 
extension to provide documentation which led to her policy being cancelled.
What happened
In late February 2020 Ms F took out car insurance with a company Ill refer to as W. 
This was administered by Somerset. In her welcome letter for the policy, Ms F was told she 
might need to provide certain documentation to validate the information shed provided in her 
application.
 
A few days later, in early March 2020, Somerset wrote to Ms F and asked her to confirm her 
driving licence information. The letter explained that Ms F could access this information on 
the gov.uk website, by calling the DVLA or by writing to the DVLA and requesting a copy of 
her record. The letter told Ms F she had 21 days from the start date of her policy to provide 
the information and warned her that failure to do so could result in her policy being 
cancelled.
Ms F didnt respond to Somerset and so it emailed her on 13 March, 20 March and 28 March 
2020 to chase the information and then to explain it would have to begin cancelling the 
policy.
On 29 March 2020 Ms F got in touch with Somerset and told it shed tried to check her 
licence summary but couldnt get the system to work for her. She enclosed a screenshot of 
the error message she saw on the direct.gov website. She asked for advice on how to 
proceed and for more time to get the documentation. She then called Somerset on 
30 March 2020 to provide a check code, but it wasnt working. She emailed Somerset again 
on 31 March and said she still couldnt access the required information. She offered to send 
photocopies of her driving licence in the meantime and asked for a further extension. 
On 1 April 2020 Somerset granted an extension until 4 April and told Ms F to call them if she 
had further issues. On 2 April Ms F emailed Somerset and said she couldnt get hold of 
Somerset via the telephone number theyd provided. Ms F said that she was still having 
difficulties generating a check code and asked Somerset to help resolve the problem or 
extend the deadline. 
On 3 April 2020 Somerset agreed to extend the deadline until 11 April. On 11 April Ms F 
emailed Somerset again and told it shed tried to contact the DVLA several times via 
telephone and the webchat but couldnt get through due to the pandemic. She attached 
screenshots of the difficulties she encountered via the webchat. Ms F also said she didnt 
have access to a printer and so writing to the DVLA was difficult. Somerset replied the same 
day and advised it couldnt provide a further extension. The policy was then cancelled by W. 
Following cancellation, Somerset wrote to Ms F to advise she owed around £175. 
This included a cancellation fee. Ms F didnt think this was fair and so she complained to 
Somerset, but it didnt uphold her complaint. Ms F then brought her concerns to our service. 
Ms F told us the cancellation had a real impact on her as she was a single mother and was 
left unable to use her car for shopping in the middle of the lockdown. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Fs complaint and felt Somerset hadnt acted fairly. 
He thought Somerset should have made a greater effort to understand the reasons why 
Ms F was unable to provide the information. As a resolution to the complaint he asked 
Somerset to:
Only charge £6 pro-rata finance/direct debit arrangement fee.
Only charge £9 pro-rata broker fee.
Waive the cancellation fee.
Record the policy as being cancelled by Ms F and ask for this to be reflected in 
company Ws records also. 
Pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Somerset didnt agree, it felt it had given Ms F numerous opportunities to provide the 
information and it noted the DVLA was open. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Somerset acted fairly here  Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Somerset required this information on behalf of the underwriter in order to 
verify the insurance contract. And that it would normally expect to receive this within 21 
days, something it warned Ms F about. But I dont think Somerset made enough allowances 
for the circumstances within which Ms F was trying to obtain this information. These events 
occurred at a time when the UK had just gone into an unprecedented national lockdown due 
to Covid-19. 
Whilst there was an initial delay in Ms Fs response, she was clearly having difficulties 
getting this information and she did contact Somerset to inform it of this. Ive seen evidence 
to show Ms F made reasonable efforts to try and obtain this documentation and the emails 
show she kept Somerset updated, sharing evidence of the difficulties she encountered. Ms F 
tried the direct.gov website more than once and attempted to contact the DVLA via webchat, 
telephone and email  all were ineffective. Whilst the DVLA may have been open, it was 
clearly not operating in the same way and Im satisfied Ms F was having difficulties getting 
hold of them regardless. Overall, whilst I appreciate there was an initial delay in her 
response, I think Ms F took reasonable steps to try and resolve things. And Id expect 
Somerset to take this into account when deciding how to proceed.
I appreciate Somerset did offer Ms F two extensions to try and assist her. But it then refused 
to provide a further extension despite the fact the problem hadnt been resolved and the 
overriding circumstances impacting Ms F hadnt substantially changed. 
I havent seen any evidence that Somerset did much to try and help Ms F to obtain the 
information or provide her with any guidance about other ways she might do this. 
Something I would expect it to attempt before cancelling the policy. 
Somerset has also confirmed it didnt inform W of the difficulties Ms F had encountered such 
that it could consider whether a further extension would be appropriate.Taking everything into account, I dont think Somerset acted fairly here. Had it done so, I 
think cancellation of the policy at that time would have been avoided. Im aware Ms F has 
since obtained insurance elsewhere, so she doesnt need to reinstate this policy. But having 
an insurer cancellation on her record could impact her ability to obtain insurance moving 
forward. So, to put things right, I think Somerset should ask W to record the policy as having 
been cancelled by Ms F, rather than W, and it should ask W to ensure all relevant records 
also reflect this. And I think it should provide Ms F with a letter confirming the cancellation 
wasnt her fault. Ms F should only have to pay for her time on cover as well as the direct 
debit and broker fees on a pro-rata basis. Any fees over and above this should either be 
waived by Somerset or, where the fee is owed to another business, should be covered by 
Somerset. I think Somerset should also pay Ms F £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I think this amount fairly reflects the impact the cancellation had on Ms F given her 
particular circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited to:
Waive or cover all fees owed by Ms F in relation to this policy with the exception of 
her time on cover and the pro-rata direct debit set up and broker fees.
Pay Ms F £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ask W to amend the relevant records to reflect the policy as having been cancelled 
by Ms F.
Provide Ms F with a letter confirming the cancellation was not her fault.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman