DRN-3571844
The complaint
Miss G complains American Express Services Europe Limited didnt treat her fairly when she 
had difficulties making repayments to her credit card account. 
What happened
Miss G had a credit card account with American Express. In January and February 2018 
Miss G didnt make the contractual payments. Then in March 2018 a number of transactions 
were made which she told American Express she hadnt authorised. American Express 
investigated these transactions and explained it would not be crediting her account with the 
disputed transactions.
During the same period Miss G was sent another statement, detailing the minimum payment 
required. Within this statement was an arrears notice which explained that payments had 
been missed. Miss G was also sent a notice of default sums which stated that repayments 
had been missed and the credit limit exceeded. 
In late April 2018 Miss G was sent a final demand and notice of termination letter. This 
letter confirmed the account was being terminated and the outstanding balance was due 
within 28 days of the letter. Miss G made a payment of £1,000 towards the balance at the 
end of May 2018. American Express says that it was at this time Miss G entered into an 
arrangement to pay. 
Miss G was sent further statements in June, July, August and September. No further 
payments were made by Miss G during this time, and in November 2018 American Express 
registered a default on Miss Gs credit file for the account. 
In July 2019 Miss G raised a further complaint about the disputed transactions from March 
2018. American Express issued a final response letter rejecting her complaint at this time
In July 2021 Miss G applied for credit with another lender. During this process she 
discovered the registered default applied by American Express. Miss G raised a formal 
complaint with American Express at this time explaining:
The default had been applied unfairly by American Express. It has not adhered to 
pre-action protocol in respect of debt recovery. The default also does not accurately 
reflect what happened in 2018. 
American Express didnt fairly consider the disputed transactions. The outstanding 
balance mainly consists of transactions which were fraudulently made.
She was unaware the default even existed until August 2021, and she thought the 
disputed transactions had been cleared from her account. 
The statements and letters sent by American Express were not received. Miss G 
says she asked American Express to amend her address, but this was not done. 
American Express investigated her complaint about registration of the default and explained:
The disputed transactions had been investigated and Miss G was informed of its 
decision not to refund the transactions in its final response letter issued to her in July 
2019.
It had notified Miss G of the cancellation of her card and the referral to a debt 
collection agency in April 2018. Miss G was also informed of the potential for a 
default to be registered. 
To assist Miss G she entered into an arrangement to pay through a collection 
agency. Miss G made one payment towards this of £1,000 in May 2018 and hereafter 
monthly payments were of £700 were due. The collection agency contacted Miss G 
for a monthly payment in June 2018, but Miss G was unable to make this, so the 
arrangement ended. 
As part of its duty as a responsible lender it must pass on information to credit 
agencies. It would not be asking for the default to be removed. 
It had acted in accordance with the account terms and conditions when it cancelled 
Miss Gs card.
Miss G was not happy with American Expresss review of her case so referred her complaint 
to this service. The investigator looked into the merits of this case and found American 
Express had acted fairly in its handling of her account and applying the default. 
Miss G remained unhappy, so the case has been referred to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, Ill start by saying that this decision will focus on whether American Express has 
acted fairly and reasonably in respect of Miss Gs complaint about it registering the default 
here. Miss Gs case regarding the disputed transactions has been reviewed separately by 
this service.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have 
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are relevant for me to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service. But Id like to reassure 
Miss G that Ive considered all shes told us and provided us, as I have with American 
Express submissions too.
Im sorry to hear of Miss Gs experience over the past few years with her personal situation. I 
understand that having a default on her credit file will impact on her ability to obtain further 
credit in the future. Miss G says American Express has acted unfairly. Based on the 
evidence I have, I dont think it did. Ill explain why. 
When an account is in arrears, a lender can register a default, even if an arrangement to pay 
or some other temporary arrangement has been agreed. The Consumer Credit Act 1974 
says that a lender must issue a notice of default setting out what the consumer needs to do to bring the account back up to date and tell the customer the date by which this needs to 
happen. In this case, the arrears accrued because Miss G didnt make the contractual 
payments. 
I can see that from January 2018 onwards Miss G hasnt made the minimum payments due 
on her American Express credit card. Ive looked at the correspondence sent to Miss G and I 
can see the credit card statements set out the minimum payment required and when the 
payment needed to be made by. Miss G was also sent a notice of sum in arrears, and a 
notice of default when further payments werent received, and it had no other contact from 
Miss G around payments.
A key issue is Miss Gs point that she did not receive much of the correspondence sent to 
her by American Express. Miss G says she wrote to American Express on two separate 
occasions  in March 2018 and June 2019 asking for her correspondence details to be 
changed. American Express says it never received these requests. I can see the point 
regarding postal issues she says she had at the time has been dealt with in some detail 
under Miss G case concerning the disputed transactions. The evidence Ive seen suggests 
that up until at least September 2019 Miss G was residing at, or at least had access to the 
address which American Express was using to contact her. In addition, although Miss G 
says she didnt receive the letters sent to her, it does seem she was in touch via telephone 
with the collection agency that was handling the debt for American Express. Miss G 
therefore had an awareness of the situation, and the fact the she had entered into an 
arrangement to pay. 
Miss G says the disputed transactions made up much of her outstanding balance. I can see 
there was an error with one of the reversed disputed transactions. American Express 
acknowledged this error and offered a £25 payment in recognition of this mistake. However, 
the transactions remained on Miss Gs account following this and Miss G was sent a final 
response letter explaining that American Express did not have enough evidence to consider 
them to be fraudulent. I understand Miss G says she was unaware of the balance and state 
of her account, but on balance, considering the evidence I have seen, I think Miss G 
wouldve had some awareness that she had an outstanding debt with American Express. I 
think its also significant that even prior to the transactions Miss G has disputed, Miss G did 
not make the minimum repayments for January and February 2018. 
Although no payments were made towards Miss Gs account from February 2018, I can see 
a payment of £1,000 was made in May 2018. American Express has provided evidence to 
show an arrangement was agreed with Miss G at this time with a collection agency. Miss G 
was due to make another payment of £700 in June 2018, however this wasnt made, and the 
arrangement ended. The information from the collection agency indicates they spoke to Miss 
G at this time and tried to set up another plan in both July and August 2018, but this wasnt 
possible as Miss G didnt provide further payment details. This information shows that there 
was some form of contact between Miss G and the collection agency used by American 
Express to discuss her situation and put in place a plan to manage the debt. 
American Express issued its default notice in April 2018, but the default was only applied to 
Miss Gs record in November 2018. It seems in this interim period American Express 
provided Miss G with an opportunity to repay the debt. However, beyond the payment of 
£1,000, the remaining monthly payments towards the arrangement werent made by Miss G. 
Given the circumstances, and the information that was given to Miss G by the collection 
agency, I think it was reasonable for American Express to register the default. I say this 
because American Express had taken steps to assist Miss G, but as no progress was being 
made it took the decision to accurately report the state of Miss Gs account.It is clear Miss G is keen to remove the adverse information that is recorded on her credit 
file. Ultimately Miss G didnt make her contractual repayments in the months leading up to 
the account closure. American Express is obliged to accurately report the status of Miss Gs 
account. Im therefore not going to require American Express to change the information it 
recorded. I know Miss G will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on her 
complaint. But this final decision ends what our service can do for her. However, she can 
reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman