DRN-1102311
 
The complaint
Mrs G says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
During a meeting in 2002 Mrs G took out a credit card with BOS. At the same time she was 
sold a regular premium PPI policy to cover her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought it wouldve been 
made clear PPI was optional and the policy wouldve suited her needs.
Mrs G disagrees. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mrs G was sold the PPI during a meeting when she applied for her credit card. BOS needed 
to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs G says this wasnt done. Mrs G hasnt given 
us much detail about what was said at the meeting to make her think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show.
Ive looked at the original credit card application and agreement form sent to us by BOS and 
can see within section 5 Product details it says to mark the relevant boxes if credit card 
repayments cover or card protection is wanted. I think this couldve been worded better and 
set out more clearly but I think it presents the PPI as optional. 
And from what we understand about BOSs sales process there wouldve been a discussion 
about PPI and then the application form wouldve been completed and printed out for 
reviewing and signing. I can see that an X has been pre-populated in the Credit Card 
Repayment Cover box indicating that Mrs G wanted to take out the PPI and Mrs G has 
signed and dated the form just to the right of this. I think its likely Mrs G wouldve seen that 
the PPI box was selected and if she hadnt agreed to take it I think she wouldve raised this 
with the sales advisor. 
So I think Mrs G wouldve understood the PPI was optional and it was selected on the credit 
card application because she agreed to take it. And based on what Mrs G has told us I cant 
say its likely BOS did do things to make her think the PPI wasnt optional.
This was an advised sale. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs G could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs G for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mrs G says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
she could use to make her credit card payments if she couldnt work or lost her job. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits or savings and covered her 
credit card payments for potentially longer up to 12 months if she couldnt work due 
to accident or sickness or lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful 
benefit to Mrs G in her circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided he no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it. 
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mrs G information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs G has told us 
about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means Mrs G isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman