DRN-2773674
The complaint
Ms M complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly withdrew 
funding from a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In mid-2018, Ms M made a claim under her legal expenses policy to cover the costs of 
pursuing an employment dispute for disability discrimination and failure to make reasonable 
adjustments. 
DAS instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors  who Ill refer to as D  to assess whether 
the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, which is a requirement for cover under 
the policy. D was satisfied it did, so the claim was accepted, and D was appointed as Ms Ms 
legal representation. 
In mid-2019, Ms M resigned from her employment as a result of her employers conduct in 
her legal case. She asked DAS to cover an additional claim for constructive unfair dismissal. 
D confirmed that it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, so DAS agreed to cover it and 
the claim was added to the existing legal proceedings. Around this time, an offer was made 
to the other side to settle the claim at £12,000 but no response was received.
In early 2020, the other side made on offer to settle the claims in full at £7,000. The offer 
was considered by D and appointed counsel, who said that whilst it was a reasonable offer it 
could be improved upon. They recommended Ms M make a counter-offer at £10,000. 
Ms M wasnt happy to do so. She said thered been no detailed analysis of how theyd 
arrived at this offer and her schedule of loss was almost £30,000 at that time. She didnt 
think it was an appropriate time to settle the claim, and instead requested that counsel 
attend the scheduled case management discussion (CMD). She later suggested a counter-
offer of £18,000, but D felt this was unreasonable.
As Ms M and D were in dispute, the matter was referred to DAS to resolve things. DAS 
agreed to fund counsels fees to attend the CMD, with a view to revisiting settlement figures 
afterwards. But Ms M made the decision to dis-instruct D and represent herself at the CMD. 
DAS advised Ms M of her obligations under her policy; namely that she must co-operate with 
the appointed representative; accept a reasonable offer to settle her claim; and that she 
should not dismiss a legal representative without good reason. DAS said that based on the 
advice from D, Ms M had failed to comply with these terms. And it would only consider 
funding the claim going forward if Ms M could provide counsels advice, at her own cost, 
which supported her rejection of the other sides offer. 
Ms M obtained an opinion from a barrister  who Ill refer to as A. They were satisfied the 
claim continued to enjoy reasonable prospects of success. And that the other sides offer 
could be improved upon. They said a more realistic value of the claim for settlement 
purposes would be in the region of £10,000 to £15,000. 
Based on this, DAS agreed to continue funding the claim and, in mid-2020, cover was put in 
place for Ms M to be represented by a solicitor of her own choice  who Ill refer to as P. 
In late 2020, shortly before the hearing was due to take place, the other side made an offer 
to settle at £12,000. Ms M met with both A and P, who were of the opinion the offer should 
be accepted. A confirmed that having reviewed the case, they had significant concerns 
about the prospects of success going forward.
Ms M didnt want to accept the offer, and instead wished to proceed with the hearing. So P 
sought a funding decision from DAS. Based on the legal advice available, DAS confirmed 
that legal expenses funding would be withdrawn if Ms M didnt want to follow the advice of 
her appointed representative. Cover was withdrawn on the Friday prior to the start of the 
hearing on the following Monday. 
As she had no representation, Ms M applied for an adjournment with the tribunal, but this 
was refused so she represented herself. She was unsuccessful with her claims, all of which 
were dismissed. 
Ms M complains that:
1. DAS decision to withdraw legal expenses funding immediately before the hearing 
was unfair. She feels it shouldve obtained another barristers opinion before making 
this decision.
2. She had not refused to accept the offer but instead felt that A and P hadnt been 
clear why they considered it to be a fair amount given the schedule of loss was 
substantially more. She also felt they werent clear on why they considered that 
prospects of success had fallen below 51%. 
3. After funding was withdrawn, Ms M collected the case papers from P and found that 
no preparation had been carried out for the trial and P had failed to manage A 
appropriately. This left her at a disadvantage in the hearing. 
Ms M brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She was 
satisfied that DAS was entitled to rely on the legal advice and that Ms M had failed to comply 
with her obligations under the policy. She also explained that if Ms M was unhappy with A or 
P, shed need to raise that complaint to them directly and in turn, to the Legal Ombudsman. 
As Ms M didnt accept what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ms policy say that cover for legal expenses will be provided 
as long as  reasonable prospects exist for the duration of the claim. The policy defines 
reasonable prospects as being at least 51%, which means it must be more likely than not 
that Ms M will be successful in her claim. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In Ms Ms case, DAS were advised by Ms Ms appointed representatives  A and P  that 
prospects of success were no longer 51% or above as required by the policy. And that a 
reasonable offer to settle the claims had been made by the other side. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this advice was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. So I 
think it was fair for DAS to rely on it.
I appreciate Ms M had concerns over the advice as there wasnt a detailed analysis of why 
the offer was reasonable or why prospects had diminished. But A provided Ms M with their 
detailed opinion on her claims in the advice she obtained in early 2020, which said a 
reasonable settlement offer would be between £10,000 to £15,000. So Ms M was already 
aware of what A considered to be a fair settlement. This was consistent with the advice 
shed received from D and appointed counsel a year prior, who recommended settlement 
was agreed at £12,000. 
So when an offer was received from the other side at £12,000, Im satisfied it was fair for 
DAS to accept the advice of A and P that this was a reasonable offer which should be 
accepted. 
Ms M says that DAS shouldve obtained a second opinion before withdrawing cover. But 
there is no requirement under the policy for it to do so. And I see no reason why it should in 
the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ive explained above. If Ms M wanted to 
challenge it, she couldve obtained a further legal challenge of her own  in the same way 
she did in early 2020.
Whilst its unfortunate that legal expenses funding was withdrawn so close to the hearing, 
Im satisfied that DAS acted fairly in doing so. I say this because the legal advice was that 
Ms M should not proceed to hearing as there were no longer reasonable prospects of 
success. She was advised to accept the reasonable offer on the table, and there wouldve 
been funding available to bring the case to a conclusion had she accepted. 
Instead, Ms M didnt co-operate with her appointed representative and didnt accept a 
reasonable offer, putting her in breach of her obligations and responsibilities under the 
policy. 
Ms M also complains about the conduct of A and P. As explained by our investigator, were 
unable to consider the actions or advice of a law firm as this would fall under the remit of the 
Legal Ombudsman. If Ms M is unhappy with the way her claim was handled by her 
appointed legal representative, shell need to complain to them directly and in turn to the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sheryl SibleyOmbudsman