DRN-2180216
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans provided to Mr H between December 2014 and 
February 2018. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
numberPrincipal
(£)Start End Highest 
Repayment
(£)
1 200 04.12.14 20.02.15 99.73
2 110 04.03.15 20.03.15 124.96
3 220 31.03.15 22.04.15 260.48
4 380 28.04.15 22.05.15 456.00
5 350 28.02.18 22.05.18 178.26
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been given. Mr H 
agreed with the adjudicators conclusions but Mr Lender didnt. It said it had properly 
assessed Mr Hs loan applications and it was reasonable for it to arrange the lending. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 10 August 2020. I agreed that loan 4 
shouldnt have been given, but for reasons that were different to the adjudicators. Ive 
summarised my provisional findings below:
From what Id seen, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to arrange loans 
1 to 3 for Mr H. The loans were arranged during the early part of the lending 
relationship, and seem to have been affordable to Mr H. The loans were repaid in line 
with the loan agreements. 
I also thought it was reasonable for Mr Lender to arrange loan 5 for Mr H. That loan 
was taken out more than two years after loan 4. So I agreed with the adjudicator that 
loan 5 represented a new lending chain. As such, it wasnt unreasonable for loan 5 to 
be arranged by Mr Lender.
I didnt think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to arrange loan 4 for Mr H. This was his 
fourth loan in just over four months, and was taken out a few days after hed repaid 
loan 3. The repayment for loan 4 also represented a significant amount of his 
declared disposable income. 
With that in mind, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to carry out 
more detailed checks of Mr Hs finances. 
Mr Lender had asked Mr H about his income and outgoings and checked his credit 
file. But I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to verify what Mr H had 
told it about his income and outgoings. 
Had it done so, I thought Mr Lender wouldve discovered Mr H was borrowing from 
six other short-term lenders, and that he was using his overdraft to cover his general 
living costs. And with that knowledge, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Mr 
Lender to conclude that loan 4 was unlikely to be sustainable for Mr H.
Mr H didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Mr Lender responded to say, in summary, that:
Mr H had repaid loans 1 to 3 without any sign of financial difficulty.
The expenditure information provided by Mr H before taking his loans was consistent. 
And Mr H had repaid his loans on time.
The business didnt consider the number of loans and an increased loan amount was 
enough to lead to a full financial review.
It considered the checks it had carried out were proportionate, given Mr Hs 
borrowing and loan repayment history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything Mr Lender has said in response to my provisional decision. I accept 
that Mr H repaid loans 1 to 3 on time, and that this wouldnt necessarily indicate that he was 
struggling to manage his finances.
But as I said in my provisional decision, loan 4 was the fourth loan Mr H had taken in just 
over four months. And each loan was taken a few days after repaying the previous one. So I 
still consider this was an indication that Mr H may have been starting to become reliant on 
high cost, short term loans.
Mr Lender has said Mr Hs expenditure information remained consistent in his loan 
applications. But even if this was the case, the amount of loan 4 represented a significant 
amount of his declared disposable income.
When I take these points into account, I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender 
to carry out more detailed checks of Mr Hs finances. And had it done so, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr Lender to conclude that loan 4 was unlikely to be sustainable for Mr 
H.
So I remain of the view that loan 4 shouldnt have been given, and Mr Lender must put 
things right.Putting things right
Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) to pay compensation to Mr H in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman