DRN-4281793
The complaint
Miss D and Mr K are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has declined 
their claim for a lost/stolen laptop on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K says the laptop was stored in the luggage hold inside his suitcase as it was too 
large to carry on himself. He says the suitcase was locked and he took all 
precautions to ensure it was safe and secure.
Great Lakes has declined the claim for the laptop because the terms and conditions 
of Miss D and Mr Ks travel policy say there is no cover for: Any claim where You 
knowingly leave Your Gadget somewhere Unattended and it is at risk of being lost, 
stolen or damaged. For example  where Your Gadget is left at the side of a sports 
pitch whilst You are participating in the sport.
Having considered what happened, I think Great Lakes has declined the claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. Mr K left his laptop in the luggage hold area of 
the coach. Therefore, the laptop was not in his sight. was left unattended and 
potentially accessible to other third parties. 
Mr K made the decision not to keep the laptop on his person, and I consider this to 
be left unattended. This is because the definition of Unattended in his policy is: ..the 
Gadget(s) are neither on Your person or within Your sight and/or reach.
I acknowledge Mr K has referred to a similar complaint looked at by our service and 
this was upheld. Im unable to comment on this as we look at the individual merits of 
each complaint. A complaint can turn on any one of the facts and its not for me to 
comment on that complaint.
Overall, I know Mr K will be disappointed. However, Im not persuaded that Great 
Lakes has declined Mr Ks claim unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont 
require Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss D and Mr Ks complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman