DRN-3735877
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded payments he says he did not 
authorise. He is also unhappy that his account was closed by Starling and that it has 
retained the remaining balance of that account.
What happened
Two payments were made into Mr As account from a third party  who Ill call X. These 
payments were for £1,178 in total. Within moments of these funds being received, two 
payments of £500 each were made from Mr As account using his card details to a third 
party company that deals in cryptocurrency.
Mr A says he had no knowledge of any of these transactions. Hes said he was not aware of 
the funds coming into his account and did not authorise the payments out of his account, 
and he raised his concerns about these payments with Starling. 
Starling looked into what had happened but felt the available evidence suggested Mr A had 
authorised the transactions out of his account. It also decided to close Mr As account  
giving 7 days notice of its intention to do so  and as Mr A had confirmed he was not entitled 
to the £1,178 that had been paid into his account Starling took steps to return what remained 
of those funds to X.
Mr A raised a complaint about how Starling had dealt with things, but Starling didnt consider 
it had done anything wrong. As Mr A remained unhappy he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but agreed with Starling that it had 
treated Mr A fairly. Mr A disagreed, so as no agreement could be reached this complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. There are three main issues in dispute here, and for clarity Ill address each issue 
in turn.
The disputed payments out of Mr As account
On 3 March 2022 two payments of £500 each were made from Mr As account to a company 
trading in cryptocurrency. Mr A says he did not authorise these payments, he appears to be 
suggesting that a third party was able to make these payments without his knowledge or 
consent.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr A is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
Im satisfied that Mr As genuine account details were used to make the disputed 
transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Starling to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A consented to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Mr A more likely than 
not consented to the transactions. I say this for the following reasons:
- Mr A has said his card and mobile device where in his possession at the time of the 
payments and there is no clear point of compromise where a third party could have 
obtained Mr As online banking information or card details.
- Both of the disputed payments were authorized using biometrics (so either face ID or 
fingerprint ID) via the Starling mobile app, and Mr As mobile device is the only 
device registered to use that app on his account.
With this in mind, I cannot see how a third party could have carried out these transactions 
without Mr As knowledge or consent. So I consider that the evidence suggests it is more 
likely than not that Mr A authorised these payments or allowed them to be made. It follows 
that I dont consider it was unreasonable for Starling to decline to refund these disputed 
payments to him. 
Mr A has said he feels Starling should do more detailed investigations into where these 
payments went. But given that I agree with Starlings stance that Mr A likely authorised these 
transactions, I would not expect it to do any further investigation.
The closure of Mr As account
Ive considered whether Starling acted fairly in closing Mr As account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied it did. 
The terms and conditions outline that the bank can close a customers account with two 
months notice, and in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately. In this 
case Starling closed Mr As account with one weeks notice. For Starling to act fairly here it 
needed to meet the criteria to apply the terms for closure  and having looked at these terms 
and all the evidence, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. It follows that 
Starling was therefore entitled to close Mr As account, as it has now done.
Returning funds to source 
Mr A is very unhappy that when his account was closed the remaining balance of £485.20 
was returned to X. Mr A says that some of this amount was his money and that only around 
£170 should have been returned to X.
When the two payments totalling £1,178 were paid into Mr As account, Starling received an 
indemnity form from Xs bank saying that the payment to Mr A had been fraudulent  that X 
had not agreed for it to be made. When Starling asked Mr A about this he confirmed that he 
was not the legitimate beneficiary of these funds. So there seems to be no question here 
that Mr A was not entitled to the £1,178 that was paid into his account. It appears that Mr A considers that as £1,000 was then paid out of his account, only £178 is 
due back to X. But the payment out of the account is a separate matter, and as already 
explained I consider it is more likely than not that Mr A authorised the payment of £1,000 out 
of his account. 
So I am not able to conclude from the evidence provided to me Mr A is entitled to the money 
which was transferred from Xs account. It therefore follows  as per the terms and 
conditions of Mr As account  that X is entitled to receive a refund of any remaining funds in 
the account up to £1,178. As only £485.20 remained in Mr As account, that is the amount 
that was returned to X. In order for me to direct Starling to refund these funds to Mr A I would 
need to be satisfied the funds are Mr As and Im not able to conclude that on the evidence 
before me.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr A, but with everything Ive seen Im satisfied that 
Starling has acted appropriately here and that it has treated Mr A fairly, so I wont be asking 
it to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman