DRN-3499769
The complaint
Mr P complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) provided poor customer 
service and conflicting information regarding the cancelation of his credit card account 
following an attempted  fraud on his account, and then unfairly reduced his credit and 
purchase limits. 
What happened
Mr P holds credit and charge card accounts with Amex, with his partner as a supplementary 
card holder. Mr P says he telephoned Amex in mid-April 2020 to discuss potentially 
fraudulent activity on his credit card account and was told contradictory advice as to whether 
his card would be cancelled or not. Mr P says later in May 2020 he was informed his credit 
card account had been cancelled without prior warning, and a completely new credit card 
account had been opened. Mr P says his old account balance wasnt transferred to his new 
account and after making attempts to pay off the outstanding balance he was unable to do 
so, and experienced difficulties in trying to speak to anyone at Amex who could explain how 
he could pay into his old credit card account. 
Mr P says he complained to Amex, but it took several months before it responded to him, by 
which time it had sent letters demanding payment and charged him late payment charges 
and interest. Mr P says Amex also damaged his credit score by registering markers on his 
credit file. Mr P says he was also unfairly charged a membership fee for the new credit card 
account opened, despite him having already paid the fee for the old account that had been 
cancelled by Amex.
In addition, Mr P says Amex have substantially reduced his credit card limit and his 
availability on his charge card, which he believes was as a result of him previously having a 
complaint upheld by this service. Mr P doesnt feel Amex have treated him fairly despite it 
subsequently removing any adverse credit markers, refunding late payment charges, 
partially refunding his membership fee and paying him £100 by way of an apology. Mr P 
doesnt feel the redress offered by Amex is sufficient and he wants an explanation why there 
has been a drastic change in his credit limit and why he wasnt told how to pay off his credit 
card account at the time.  
Amex says it agreed to accept it could have provided better service and in all probability 
although it no longer had the telephone call recordings to say either way, it agreed it could 
have transferred the balance of the old credit card account to the newly opened account on 
Mr Ps request. Additionally, Amex says it should have charged a pro rata membership fee 
and agreed to refund £65 to put matters right. Amex says monthly statements and default 
notices were posted to Mr P so he would have known to pay the balance outstanding, but on 
the understanding he says he never received the statements it agreed to refund the late 
payment charges. Amex also confirmed it had removed any late payment markers on Mr Ps 
credit file from April 2020.
Amex says it reduced Mr Ps credit limit on his credit card account in line with its terms and 
conditions. Amex says it has paid Mr P £100 in recognition of his experience.
Mr P wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Amex do not have the telephone call recordings but contact notes suggest 
Mr P was aware a new credit card was being issued as he had called to chase Amex about 
this. The investigator says Amex have refunded a pro rata amount of the fee charged for 
membership and this has been dealt with fairly. The investigator also says Amex provided 
statements which showed how to make the payments to his credit card account so couldnt 
be held at fault for that. The investigator felt that Amex were entitled to reduce Mr Ps credit 
card limit in line with its terms and conditions and felt the £100 offered was fair to cover the 
service issues Mr P had faced. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been both frustrating and upsetting for Mr P to discover that 
an attempted fraud had been made on his Amex credit card account, and then as a result of 
this he was left without access to his account, and told his credit card account limit and 
purchase limits had been reduced. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Amex treated Mr P fairly when dealing with 
the issues he faced following the fraudulent activity on his credit card account and the 
replacement of his new credit card. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
In Mr Ps initial complaint to this service he raised a number of issues, but some of these as 
explained by the investigator, have been put right by Amex, such as the refund of the late 
payment charges, his membership fee and his credit file has been amended accordingly. 
That said Mr P remains unhappy how Amex dealt with the problems he faced when the fraud 
on his credit card account was brought to their attention. In particular Mr P is unhappy that 
his old credit card was cancelled without any notification, the time it took to obtain a new 
credit card account, the lack of information about how he could pay off his old credit card 
balance and the fact his credit and purchase limits have been substantially reduced, 
because in his view Amex did this as a complaint he lodged against them, was upheld.  
Amex have told this service that Mr P was sent regular statements and notifications 
regarding the outstanding balance due on his old credit card account, so he would have 
been aware he needed to make payments to the account, even though Mr P denies 
receiving any statements over this period. Amex says after discussions with Mr P in April 
2020 his credit card was cancelled and accept it took some time before his new card was 
issued in late May 2020, but this wouldnt have prevented Mr P paying into his account by 
telephone, bank giro or direct bank transfer.  
Unfortunately, there are no phone call recordings available at the time Mr P initially discussed with Amex in mid-April 2020 the fraudulent transactions on his credit card 
account, so I cant say with any certainty what was discussed. What I can say is the new 
credit card account request wasnt processed by Amex until late April 2020. I can see no 
evidence from Amex to show Mr P was ever told in writing at that time a new card was being 
ordered or his old credit card account had been cancelled until he spoke to them again later 
in May 2020 and the new credit card was finally sent in late May 2020.  
As to Mr Ps point regarding his credit limit being reduced, its worth saying that Amex 
reserve the right to review customers credit limits periodically and can decrease these on 
written notice and from what I can see theres no evidence to suggest Amex have reduced 
Mr Ps credit limit as a result of a previous upheld complaint he made  even if that is what 
Mr P believes happened. Amex have suggested to this service that Mr P may apply for a 
higher limit if he so wishes, and I will leave that with him to consider. 
When looking at all of these points I need to consider if Amex have done all they could 
during what would have been a stressful experience for Mr P, knowing his account had been 
subject to an attempted fraud, and here I think they could have done more. 
I say this because although some redress has been paid by Amex I dont think it goes far 
enough as Mr P has provided this service with copies of numerous letters addressed to them 
expressing his concerns - in particular how he could make payments to his credit card 
account. I cant see these points were answered until the final response letter in January 
2021 which would have only added to Mr Ps frustration and concerns. Additionally, I do feel 
Amex could have been clearer with Mr P at the time he raised the fraud activity on his credit 
card account and explained the process more fully - Im not persuaded they did that here. 
While Amex says it sent the statements to Mr P, it has accepted that its possible these 
werent received by him and reversed the late payment fees as a result and later sent him 
fresh copies. I do accept perhaps there was more Mr P could have done to make a payment 
to his credit card account but its worth remembering this was during the height of the Covid 
pandemic, which in any event made this more challenging. More importantly, given Mr P had 
written to Amex asking how to make a payment and given his credit card account was 
subject to potential fraud and frozen, its not unreasonable to think he may have thought 
making a payment to his old account, as he had previously done, wasnt now possible. 
While no doubt the impact of the Covid pandemic could have affected both staffing numbers 
and  the level of service offered by Amex, I still take the view that the best course of action 
for Amex to have taken at the time the fraud was uncovered, was to simply freeze the old 
card and transfer any legitimate balance to Mr Ps new credit card account, and not expect 
him to know he needed to ask them to do that. This is where I am of the view, the problems 
Mr P subsequently faced could have been avoided. 
With that in mind, Amex should pay Mr P an additional £200 for the trouble and upset this 
has caused. 
While Amex will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I feel this is a fair outcome 
here.
Although Mr P responded to my provisional decision, I have heard nothing further from Amex 
and so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr P and Amex until 25 May 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. Mr 
P accepted my provisional decision but as I have heard nothing further from Amex, I see no 
reason to change or add to my original provisional decision and so my final decision remains 
the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr P an additional £200 by way 
of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr P an additional £200 by way 
of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman