DRN-3907268
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with an e-mail it sent him.
What happened
Mr R says he received an e-mail from Barclays in July 2021 which he initially thought was a 
scam e-mail. He says he was concerned about his account security and if there had been a 
breach of his personal data. Mr R says he spoke to Barclays about the e-mail, and it told him 
it could not find a record of it. He says he was told it was not genuine before being told in 
September 2021 that it was genuine. Mr R says he ought to have been given the correct 
information initially and complains about how Barclays dealt with his complaint. He says he 
was promised call backs from it which meant he remained at home and would like a full 
investigation into what took place.
Barclays accepts it didnt provide Mr R with appropriate service. It has paid £50 and £25 
compensation and says there wasnt any breach of Mr Rs personal data. Barclays says the 
£75 compensation is appropriate.
Mr R brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought overall the compensation 
appropriate and explained that we couldnt look into the complaint handling part of the 
complaint. The investigator didnt think what took place was significant enough to justify 
further compensation.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says he spent days awaiting Barclays calls 
and says he had to request copies of its correspondence. He says the impact was significant 
and says Barclays offered him a further £50 not £25 during the September call.
 I asked Barclays to listen to the call about the compensation as I thought it had said £50 
compensation was appropriate. Barclays accepts £50 was mentioned during the call and 
says it will pay a further £25.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays should pay the further £25 
compensation it agreed to pay. I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and 
also appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint.
I hope by setting out our role here that Mr R will appreciate which parts of his complaint we 
can look at. We are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to punish it or direct it to 
speak to its staff about what took place. I make that clear as during one of the calls between 
Mr R and Barclays, Mr R says he would like some of the Barclays staff involved in what took 
place spoken to. I am also sure Mr R would like the author of the July 2021 e-mail spoken to 
about its content and style. We cant direct Barclays to discipline its staff or reveal what if 
any action it took.
We cant consider complaints about complaint handling as it is not a regulated activity. So, I 
cant comment on how Barclays dealt with Mr Rs complaint and about the failure to call him 
back. Im satisfied that part of the complaint is separate and distinct from the original 
complaint.
I have looked carefully at Barclays e-mail of July 2021. I understand Mr Rs concerns and 
frustrations in its style and content and appreciate why he contacted Barclays about it. It is 
not clear why Barclays could not simply confirm it sent the e-mail. Im satisfied that it ought 
to have been a straightforward issue of checking its records and telling Mr R that it was a 
genuine e-mail. I have no doubt Mr R would have been re-assured that he had not been 
targeted by fraudsters.
It is also difficult to understand why when Mr R called Barclays in September 2021, he was 
told immediately the e-mail was genuine and why that same check couldnt have been 
carried out in July 2021. I accept Mr R will have unanswered questions about that which this 
service simply cant answer.
The key issue is what Barclays ought to do if anything in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have made clear that we cant order an investigation into what took place or direct Barclays 
to tell Mr R or make public what if any action it has carried out. Im satisfied that Barclays 
has fairly apologised to Mr R and that his personal data or accounts were not compromised.
I accept Mr R was caused distress and inconvenience, but I dont think the impact of this 
mistake justifies further compensation or action by Barclays. Im satisfied that £75 
compensation paid, and the £25 compensation now offered is fair and reasonable and in line 
with the amount and type of awards we would have made in any event.
Overall, I appreciate Mr R will have ongoing concerns about how, what ought to have been, 
a fairly simple issue was dealt with. But I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do. Mr Rs acceptance of Barclays offer would be in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of a further £25. Mr Rs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman