DRN-1110071
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked a transaction he was carrying out 
on-line, which resulted in him losing out financially. 
What happened
On 10 April 2019 Mr P was buying flights on-line. Nationwide's security blocked the 
transaction. Nationwide queued the transaction for an outbound call to Mr P to check if it was 
genuine. But before it could make that call, Mr P called in. He failed verification on the first 
attempt, but passed it the second time  He confirmed the transaction was genuine. However, 
by that time the flights he was trying to book were no longer available at the original price but 
had become more expensive. Mr P paid an extra £180.00 for his flights. 
Mr P complained to Nationwide as he was unhappy that he had to pay more for his flights. 
Nationwide didn't uphold his complaint as the transaction was blocked as a result of the 
processes and procedures it has in place to protect customer accounts from fraud. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint either. She was satisfied Nationwide had acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and to protect its customer. Mr P 
remains unhappy and believes Nationwide should either text or send a one-time passcode to 
ensure a transaction is genuine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is very little I can add to the investigator's findings. Nationwide's terms and conditions 
allow it to stop transactions for various reasons including (but not limited to) where there are 
unusual patterns of transactions with the supplier or its security controls require additional 
identification [see 5 (b)]. 
Nationwide has explained the transaction was blocked because it breached one of more of 
the rules it has in place to protect its customers money. It would be remiss of a bank not to 
have such procedures in place, particularly as fraud is becoming ever more sophisticated. 
So I find it was fair for it to stop the transaction when it did. 
I do understand Mr P's point about texts and/or one-time pass codes.  But that currently isn't 
a procedure that Nationwide has in place. And whatever processes it has in place for 
checking whether a transaction is genuine is a matter of its commercial judgment and not 
something I would generally interfere with. I would also add, if only for the sake of 
completeness, even if Nationwide had a text process in place, it doesn't automatically follow 
that the transaction is allowed through straight away - quite often the transaction needs to be 
put through again. So Mr P might still have been in a position of having to pay more for his 
flights. It is unfortunate that Mr P is out of pocket. But I don't find Nationwide has done anything 
wrong in either stopping the transaction or in the way it checked it was genuine.  So I won't 
be making an award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman