DRN-3304674
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his application to 
transfer money to one of its Individual Savings Accounts (ISA). He says Nationwides 
poor handling of it meant he wasnt able to access his money and invest it elsewhere  
and so, hes lost out financially as a result.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr M applied to transfer funds to a Nationwide ISA from his 
existing ISA provider.
The Nationwide account was a 1 Year Triple Access Online ISA which allowed 
funds to be withdrawn up to three times in the first year before a lower interest 
rate would be applied.
Mr M says he chose this particular ISA for its flexibility as he wanted to be able 
to access the money to reinvest it, use it towards reducing his mortgage, or 
purchasing a new car.
Mr M says he was repeatedly told the application would be completed shortly, 
and so he held on thinking it was imminent. But in July 2021, Mr M complained 
to Nationwide about the time it was taking.
Nationwide responded in September 2021. It apologised for the time it had 
taken and explained it had submitted another application on Mr Ms behalf. It 
paid Mr M £200 compensation for the difficulties hed experienced and 
reimbursed him for the telephone call costs hed incurred whilst chasing up the 
matter.
The application was completed in October 2021.
Mr M brought a complaint to this service because he doesnt feel the 
compensation reflects the difficulties he experienced or the financial gains he 
says hes lost out on as a result of Nationwides handling of his ISA 
application.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He agreed Nationwide could have 
handled his application better. He explained that while this service cant make 
awards for potential lost financial gains, we can consider the upset caused by 
a lost opportunity to use the funds as desired.
Overall, however, he thought £200 was fair in the circumstances.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
On 26 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
Neither party disputes the circumstances of this complaint, and from what Ive seen its 
apparent Nationwide took an unreasonable amount of time to process Mr Ms ISA 
transfer. I say this because ordinarily Mr M could have expected the transfer to have 
been completed within a couple of weeks. So, for it to have taken five months goes far 
beyond what I would consider to be a reasonable amount of time.
I recognise Nationwide has said it agrees the application didnt progress as it should 
have done  for reasons which were seemingly in its control - and so, it has paid £200 
compensation to reflect the trouble Mr M experienced. I also note Nationwide has agreed 
to back date the interest to May 2021 therefore, putting Mr M back in the position he 
would have been in had the application been completed as expected.
However, Mr M thinks he should be compensated for money he says hes lost out on as 
a result of not being able to access his money and reinvesting it elsewhere. I should 
explain that our investigator was correct in saying that we cant consider financial loss 
which is unknown or speculative. Whilst I am persuaded Mr M intended to access his 
money  because he chose an ISA which gave him the flexibility to do so - I havent been 
provided with evidence which shows he had specific plans for how he was going to use 
the money and how hed derive a financial gain from it. Mr M has instead given multiple 
examples of how he might have used the money. For example, he said he might have 
put it towards paying off his mortgage or buying a new car  but both of which would 
have depreciated his funds. Hes also mentioned potentially investing into another ISA or 
crypto currency. But theres no guarantee the latter would have resulted in a financial 
gain. Based on this, I cant reasonably determine what financial gain  if any  Mr M 
would have benefitted from had Nationwide handled his ISA application as it should have 
done.
Ive thought about whether Mr M could have done anything to mitigate his position during 
this time. From what Ive seen the only way Mr M could have accessed the funds was if 
hed chosen to opt out of the ISA transfer system and receive a cheque from the previous 
ISA provider. But doing so would have meant losing the benefits which come with doing 
an ISA transfer through the system  namely, being able to transfer more than the tax 
years limit (£20,000) into a new ISA. As Mr Ms was seeking to transfer approximately 
£50,000, I can understand why this wasnt an attractive option for him.
As Ive said above, I am persuaded that Mr M intended to do something with the funds  
and that he was likely to have done this prior to October 2021. This wasnt a small sum of 
money and Mr M had the inconvenience and distress of not being able to access and 
manage his money for a period of five months. So, with this in mind, Im persuaded 
Nationwide needs to pay more compensation to recognise the upset caused to Mr M  
and I consider £500 to be a reasonable amount in the circumstances. For clarity, this 
amount includes £200 compensation already paid to Mr M but excludes the money he 
was reimbursed for the telephone call costs.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct                         
Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr M an additional £300 compensation.
Nationwide Building Society must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Nationwide said it had nothing further to 
add. Mr M agreed with the outcome Id reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for the same reasons set out above in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr M an additional £300 compensation. 
Nationwide Building Society must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman