DRN-3400873
The complaint
Mr W, Mr W, and Miss W complain on behalf of the late Mr W about U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) and its handling of a subsidence claim.
The policy in this case was held by the late Mr W. As Miss W has led this complaint with this 
Service, and represented Mr W in making the insurance claim, I will largely refer to her within 
my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known by all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In April 2020 a claim was made on Mr Ws policy for subsidence. Mr W was elderly 
and receiving palliative care across the life of this claim.
UKI accepted the claim and works were completed in December 2020. 
Miss W made a complaint to UKI concerning outstanding snagging issues. She said 
the need for additional contractors to visit the site as a result of these issues caused 
Mr W unnecessary stress and risk to his health  taking into account the backdrop of 
Covid-19 around this time. And she says the additional two weeks of alternative 
accommodation was not good for his wellbeing.
Miss W also sought to claim for four items of missing jewellery that she says were 
taken while Mr W was in alternative accommodation. These included three items that 
didnt belong to Mr W or Miss W and instead to other parties, so UKI declined to 
cover them. One missing ring was owned by Mr W, UKI considered it, and asked for 
supporting evidence (such as photos). Miss W was unable to provide any evidence, 
so it declined the claim.
Miss W also raised issues around the electrics in the kitchen (including the hob and 
isolation switch). This included works completed by Miss Ws own contractor  but 
she argued UKI shouldve intervened as it was overseeing the works. UKI since has 
agreed to replace the hob, but Miss W outlined the impact this had on Mr Ws ability 
to make meals and general wellbeing.
Snagging issues were still being rectified by UKI at the time the complaint was looked 
into by one of our Investigators who upheld the complaint, saying:
oThe snagging issues were avoidable and while in places were cosmetic, had 
caused unnecessary distress and frustration to Mr W. 
oUKI had acted fairly by declining the three items not owned by Mr W or Miss 
W, and that UKI had reasonably asked for evidence to support the loss of the 
ring. As no evidence was available at all, she felt in this case it wouldnt be 
reasonable for UKI to cover the item it simply couldnt validate. 
oIt wouldnt be reasonable to direct UKI to take responsibility for works 
completed by a third-party contractor. But UKIs initial installation led to the 
issues with the hob.
The Investigator directed UKI to pay £550 compensation for the poor repairs and 
overall impact.
UKI agreed. But Miss W didnt. She said she wouldnt have ever put jewellery into 
storage if she had known it wouldnt be covered  and that she shouldve been given 
terms and conditions.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. Saying ultimately the 
issues of substantiation and ownership hadnt changed whether or not Miss W had 
been provided with terms of the removal company.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do so, I want to 
first extend my sympathies to Mr Ws relations for his loss. 
The nature of my role is that I must assess the evidence from an independent and impartial 
perspective and reach a decision I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
That may mean at times I may sound matter of fact or dispassionate. I want to be clear I 
mean no disrespect by this, its simply the nature of my role.
Snagging issues
UKI has an obligation to handle insurance claims promptly and fairly, which Ive kept 
in mind. I have only considered events that have taken place up until November 2021 
within this decision. And as many of the snagging issues were still ongoing at this 
time, I will not detail each of them within this decision and instead leave this matter 
for UKI to conclude its works. But I will consider its handling of these issues overall 
and whether it has caused avoidable delays and distress and inconvenience.
UKI has accepted our Investigators view that its mistakes had elongated the claim 
for Mr W and in turn made the time more challenging than it needed to be. And it 
seems that many of these snagging issues were either avoidable or couldve been 
addressed at an earlier time. So, Im satisfied UKI didnt handle this claim promptly 
and fairly at all times.
I have considered how these mistakes impacted Mr W, and taken into account the 
significance of them on Mr Ws everyday life, including the additional time he spent in 
alternative accommodation.
Jewellery 
UKI arranged for the contents of Mr Ws property to be moved and put into storage.
During the move, Miss W has said several items of jewellery went missing. The total 
value of which I understand was over £8,000.
From what Ive been, these items were never included on an inventory list that was 
produced at the time. And I have seen Miss W was required to take photos of 
potential breakable items to provide to the movers. So, its unclear to me why 
jewellery of such value would require storage or wouldnt be drawn to the attention of 
either the insurer or the moving company. In the circumstances, I think its 
reasonable that UKI would expect the parties to substantiate and provide details to support a claim of this nature.
Three of these items do not belong to Mr W and instead to a third party. UKI advised 
the third party to seek cover under their own policy for their items. I think this is 
appropriate in the circumstances. And while I understand the third party may not 
have their own insurance policy, this is not the responsibility of UKI. This party has 
mentioned that they could be considered to be living at the property in question, but 
theyve not provided me or UKI with evidence to show this is the case.
I understand the remaining item  Mr Ws ring  was very old. So, substantiation of 
such an item may not be possible by obtaining receipts for example. But Miss W was 
unable to provide any evidence to support the claim. And in the circumstances 
outlined above, Im satisfied UKI has fairly declined to cover this any further.
Miss W has put forward that UKI or its removal company shouldve shared its terms 
and conditions with her. And had it done so, and she had been aware it wouldnt 
cover jewellery items, she wouldnt have put those items into storage. Given the type 
of items in question, it strikes me that jewellery of this nature would hold both 
financial and sentimental value to its owner, so Im not persuaded, on balance, these 
terms being shared with Miss W or Mr W wouldve changed any decisions made. 
Kitchen works
Im in agreement with our Investigator that the responsibility of works carried out by a 
third party would not sit with UKI.
I agree that the installation of the hob appears flawed, and led to avoidable delays 
and frustration for Mr W.
Overall
Considering all of the circumstances outlined above. Im persuaded that UKI needs to 
provide compensation for the impact of this claim on Mr W prior to his passing. And a sum of 
£550 is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must pay the estate of Mr W £550 for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, Mr W and 
Miss W and the estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman