DRN-3142352
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused 
to pay a claim on his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Acasta includes its agents which administer the policy on its behalf.
What happened
Mr B acquired a car on finance and also took out a GAP policy. Mr Bs car was damaged 
while his daughter (Miss B) was driving it. Miss B had her own motor insurance policy which 
covered her to drive the car. Her insurer paid Mr Bs finance company for the total loss of the 
car. And Mr B claimed on his GAP policy for the balance owing.
Acasta refused Mr Bs claim. It said his daughter wasn't covered by the policy. Mr B didn't 
think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
didn't think Acasta needed to take any further action. Mr B didn't agree so his complaints 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mr Bs policy sets out those who are eligible to be covered by it. And, of importance to Mr Bs 
circumstances, it says the policy covers someone who :
Is the owner or registered keeper of the insured Vehicle or is the spouse or civil partner of 
the owner and registered keeper of the insured Vehicle and who has financial interest in the 
insured Vehicle.
Miss B didn't own the insured car, she wasnt Mr Bs spouse and she hadn't bought the car 
or taken out the finance on it. So she didn't have a financial interest in it. So she wasnt 
eligible for cover under the term quoted above.
Further, the policy also says that in order to be eligible for the cover the individual must be a 
policyholder or named driver. So while that entitles Mr B to cover it excludes Miss B. Thats 
because she wasn't a named driver on Mr B's comprehensive motor insurance policy, 
instead she had her own policy.
Mr Bs explained that adding Miss B to his own comprehensive policy was ridiculously 
expensive. So, instead, they bought a policy specifically designed to allow sons and 
daughters to drive their parents cars. And Miss Bs motor policy required a parent to have 
their own policy on the car in order for her to be covered for her dads car. Mr Bs described 
Miss Bs policy as piggie-backing on his own comprehensive motor policy. So he believes 
that, to all intents and purposes, Miss Bs policy effectively made her a named driver on his 
policy. But while I understand his arguments, I don't agree that's the case.
Miss Bs motor policy is entirely separate from Mr Bs comprehensive cover. Its underwritten 
by a completely different insurer. So the fact that Miss Bs policy requires the car to also be 
covered by (in this case) her dads motor insurer, doesn't mean that it entitles her to any 
form of cover under her dads comprehensive policy. That means that Miss Bs policy 
doesn't effectively make her a named driver on Mr Bs policy, it simply covers her to drive the 
car. The two things are quite different.
I know Mr B considers this to be a technicality that doesn't affect Acastas position. But all 
insurance policies have exclusions and restrictions on cover. And when designing policies 
insurers like Acasta will decide which risks they wish to cover and the likelihood that it will 
have to pay out on those risks. Thats something insurers are allowed to do as long as the 
policy terms aren't manifestly unfair. And, in this case, it's clear that Acasta didn't wish to 
cover anyone who isn't insured on its principal policyholders comprehensive policy. 
Presumably because it believes that increases the risk it will have to pay out on a claim. 
That's a decision its entitled to come to and I don't find it unfair to rely on its policy terms. 
Further, even if I was persuaded that Miss B met the eligibility criteria to be covered by the 
policy, Acasta has explained to us that Mr B still couldn't have met the requirements for a 
successful claim. Thats because the policys terms say that, in order for the policy to 
become effective  that is in order to make a successful claim then:
Your Motor Insurer must declare Your Vehicle a Total Loss, make a payment to You in 
settlement of Your claim, and the Vehicle forfeited.
Of importance to this complaint the policy defines You and Your as the person named on the 
policy schedule: and that was Mr B. But Mr B didn't make a claim from his policy, so his 
motor insurer didn't declare his car a total loss, or make any payment to him for his forfeited 
car. So I don't think his claim met the terms of the policy in order to make it effective. It 
follows that I think it was reasonable for Acasta to turn down Mr Bs GAP claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman