DRN-2305101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service they received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
under their homecare policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a homecare agreement with British Gas and theyd received a good 
service in the past. But in late 2019 a vulnerable tenant rang to say the boiler had failed and 
there was no heating or hot water. Mr and Mrs C contacted British Gas who arranged a visit 
the following week. There wasnt an earlier appointment available so British Gas offered 
Mr and Mrs C up to £50 to purchase heaters until the engineer arrived.
The engineer attended on the expected date. But the occupant didnt hear them and they 
had to return a couple of days later to fix the boiler. Unfortunately it failed again just under a 
week later. The engineer didnt arrive for the follow-up visit and by this time the tenant was 
suffering badly from the situation. Mr and Mrs C said they had to push for another 
appointment before Christmas. During the visit the engineer said they didnt have time to do 
the safety check and issue a certificate. Mr and Mrs C were then told that the boiler safety 
certificate had expired as British Gas had tried unsuccessfully to arrange a safety check.
Mr and Mrs C say theyve found the whole situation extremely stressful. And theyd like 
British Gas to acknowledge its service couldve been better. Theyd also like a discount or 
compensation for their considerable time and inconvenience. 
British Gas apologised for any inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C. It said the terms and 
conditions of the policy stated it would carry out repairs within a reasonable time. Itd 
arranged an appointment at the earliest availability. And because there was a six day wait 
itd offered to cover the cost of some fan heaters to a value of up to £50. It said thered been 
a delay in receiving a copy of the invoice for the heaters, but itd arranged a refund and a 
cheque had been sent to Mr and Mrs C. British Gas said its logs showed the engineer had 
attended when agreed but hadnt been able to get a response from the occupant. So it didnt 
feel itd done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with British Gas response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. He felt British Gas couldve done better. Itd taken 
nearly three weeks for the boiler to be fully repaired. And the engineer was seen running 
away from the property despite British Gas being made aware of the vulnerability of the 
tenant. 
Our investigator looked at the reasonable time section of the terms and conditions. He felt a 
19 day wait for the boiler to be fully repaired wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. But 
he didnt think it recognised the effort Mr and Mrs C had to make to reduce it to that 
timescale. Theyd had to constantly push for earlier appointments. And it took until the 
following year for the safety test certificate to be completed. 
So he felt British Gas should compensate Mr and Mrs C for the considerable time theyd 
spent sorting things out. And he recommended a payment of £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused to them. 
British Gas didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Thered been a 
high demand for its services during the winter months and itd offered the heaters as a 
gesture of goodwill. If its engineer had been able to access the property on the first 
appointment the repairs might have been completed then. And its records showed itd 
recommended the boiler be replaced since 2012 so the second failure wasnt surprising.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr and Mrs C were very concerned for the wellbeing of their tenant when the boiler 
developed a fault. Although British Gas agreed they could purchase a heater while they 
waited for the engineer, it could only heat one area at a time. And they were originally given 
long waiting times for appointments and had to repeatedly request more urgent visits.
The terms and conditions of the homecare agreement refer to the reasonable timescales 
British Gas expects to carry out any repairs or visits in. The section states well carry out any 
repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our 
control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and 
give you another time when we can visit.
Mr and Mrs C said the earliest they could get the first appointment from British Gas was six 
days after theyd reported the problem. I can understand the worry this wouldve caused as 
their tenant was vulnerable and without heating or hot water. But I dont think the timescale 
was unduly unreasonable during the winter period. And British Gas did offer to cover the 
cost of alternative heating to a maximum of £50, which it says was a gesture of goodwill as 
this wasnt part of the homecare policy. Unfortunately the tenant didnt hear when the 
engineer arrived but noticed someone leaving the property when it was too late. 
Ive looked at the engineers visit log. British Gas says it shows the engineer attended but 
was unable to get an answer. And it was unfortunate they werent able to make the tenant 
aware of their visit on the first occasion. The tenant was aware an engineer would be 
arriving. And they say they were looking out for a visit and only noticed someone had turned 
up when they saw them leaving the property rather than waiting on the doorstep.
Mr and Mrs C chased for a speedy return and a second visit was arranged two days later. 
But the repairs were unsuccessful and within a few days the tenant was again without 
heating or hot water during a period of cold weather. So Mr and Mrs C spent some time on 
the phone again to British Gas. The next appointment offered was over two weeks away and 
after Christmas Day. After two telephone calls to British Gas it was agreed the engineer 
would return on 17 December.
Although the repairs were completed successfully this time, Mr and Mrs C were told there 
wasnt time to complete the annual safety test certificate. It shouldve been scheduled a few 
days earlier, but the appointment doesnt seem to have been attended. 
They then received a letter saying British Gas had tried to arrange a gas safety check 
without any luck. And they had to make further calls to British Gas before this was resolved a 
few months later.Based on what Ive seen I think British Gas couldve handled things better. The repairs took 
nearly three weeks to complete after a number of missed, successful and unsuccessful 
visits. Although I think the length of time it took the fix the problem wasnt unreasonable 
during the winter period leading up to Christmas it wouldve been considerably longer 
without the continual efforts of Mr and Mrs C.
Its not possible to determine exactly what went wrong when the engineer made the first visit 
to the property. But the tenant wasnt aware theyd been knocking or ringing the bell even 
though they were waiting for a visit. The engineer left without gaining access. And that 
created further delays while Mr and Mrs C repeatedly contacted British Gas to try and get an 
urgent response for their tenant.
They also had to chase for the safety test to be completed despite receiving a letter from 
British Gas suggesting they were responsible for the delay. And it took further calls to finally 
receive the certificate in March the following year. Mr and Mrs C say they also had to chase 
British Gas for a refund of the heater cost.
Based on everything Ive seen I cant say the time taken to complete the repairs was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. The terms and conditions state repairs or visits should 
be carried out within a reasonable time unless something beyond its control makes that 
impossible. The boiler broke during a busy period of cold weather for British Gas engineers. 
And it required two visits to resolve the problem.
But the cold weather caused Mr and Mrs C considerable concern for their tenant. And the 
19-day repair timescale was only achieved because of their continued efforts. If theyd 
accepted British Gas original appointment of 27 December their tenant wouldve likely spent 
a miserable and cold Christmas during nearly a whole month without heating or hot water.
Putting things right
I think Mr and Mrs C should be compensated for the trouble theyve been put through. I can 
see our investigator has suggested £100 compensation. And I think thats a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited should put things 
right by paying Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman