DRN-3246509
The complaint
Ms H complains that Society of Lloyds declined her claim and avoided her policy following 
the theft of her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms H says her car was stolen and it was damaged. She made a claim to 
Lloyds. It investigated and decided to decline her claim and avoid her policy. 
Lloyds says Ms H failed to provide complete and accurate information at the start of the 
insurance. It says she failed to disclose a non-fault accident that happened in May 2019. It 
says she also failed to disclose a motoring conviction from March 2020 when three points 
were added to her licence. 
Lloyds says the policy documents it sent to Ms H, before the policy went live, set out the 
information she had provided regarding previous claims and motoring convictions. It says the 
policy documents instructed her to make contact if the information was inaccurate or had 
changed. But it received no contact from Ms H to remedy the inaccurate information.
Lloyds says that had it been aware of the motoring conviction and the previous claim it 
wouldnt have provided cover. It says The Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representations Act (2012) (CIDRA) determines that in these circumstances it can avoid the 
policy (treat as though it hadnt been put in force), decline any claim and return the 
premiums paid. This is what it did. But it paid £250 compensation to Ms H for communication 
failings and delays.
Ms H wasnt happy with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought it was clear Lloyds wouldnt have 
agreed to insure Ms H had she disclosed the motoring conviction and previous claim. She 
thought Lloyds had behaved fairly when declining the claim in line with CIDRA, avoiding the 
policy and returning the premiums.
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ms H has a separate complaint against her insurance broker. This is about its involvement in 
how her policy was set up and the provision of information. I wont be considering these 
points here. My remit is to consider whether it was fair for Lloyds to avoid the policy and 
decline Ms Hs claim, based on the information it received. 
Ms Hs policy with Lloyds commenced in April 2021. I have seen a copy of the policy 
information that was sent, which is dated ten days prior to the commencement date. 
Within the policy documentation is a Statement of Private Car Insurance, which says:
These are the details supplied by you and forms part of your contract of Insurance. If the 
details are correct there is no need to take any further action. However, you should store this 
document in a safe place for future reference. If any details are incorrect or incomplete, 
please contact your intermediary and notify them of any errors. If the risk remains acceptable 
they will issue a further statement of fact showing the correct details. If you provide false or 
incorrect information, withhold information or fail to inform us of any errors, your policy could 
be cancelled or declared void or we may refuse to pay a claim.   
A section of the document relates to motoring convictions. None is written in this section. 
The next section entitled Insurance History sets out Ms Hs response to the following 
question:
Have you or any person who may drive had any accidents/claims/losses (whether to blame 
or not) in connection with any motor vehicle during the last 3 years?
Again None is written in the response part of this section. The document also says:
I/We declare that the answers given (on which the underwriters will rely when deciding 
whether to accept the risk and in fixing the premium) are true to the best of I/our knowledge 
and belief that no information has been withheld. I we also agree that if anther person has 
given any information on this form, he or she acted as my/our agent for this purpose.   
Ms H doesnt dispute that she had a motoring conviction recorded against her prior to the 
policy commencing. And she doesnt dispute that she was involved in a non-fault accident 
during May 2019. Its clear from the policy documentation that this information shouldve 
been disclosed to Lloyds when the application for insurance was made. But based on the 
information Lloyds received, it wasnt.  
Lloyds has provided confirmation from its underwriters that had it known about Ms Hs 
motoring conviction, and her previous claim, the risk would not have been accepted, and it 
wouldve declined cover. 
I have thought about Lloyds view that Ms H made a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA. And whether this supports the action it took to avoid the policy, decline the claim, 
and return her premiums. 
Under CIDRA the consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
to the insurer. This is important as the insurer uses this information to decide if it wants to 
offer cover, and if it does on what terms. Lloydss underwriters confirm they wouldnt have 
provided cover had this information been known. I think its fair to say Ms H knew she had 
three points and a non-fault claim prior to applying for cover with Lloyds. Because of this I 
think Lloydss view is fair that Ms H didnt take reasonable care when providing information.
Under CIDRA different remedies are set out for what the insurer can do where a qualifying 
misrepresentation has occurred. In this case Lloyds has viewed the misrepresentation as 
careless, as opposed to deliberate or reckless. In the circumstances I think this is fair. The 
remedy in this case is that Lloyds can avoid the policy, refuse the claim and return the 
premiums to Ms H, which is what it did. 
Having considered all of this I think Lloyds treated Ms H fairly, in declining her claim, avoiding her policy and returning her premiums. I think Lloyds also behaved reasonably in 
providing £250 compensation for the communication failures and delays that occurred during 
the claim. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore to resolve Ms Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman