DRN-2284853
The complaint
Mr G complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to close his credit card account.
 
What happened
Mr G has told us he moved to Australia around 18 years ago but retained his HSBC credit 
card to use when he visits the UK. Mr Gs credit card hasnt been used in several years. The 
last transaction Mr G completed was on 28 August 2015 and he cleared the balance on 
2 September 2015. The last credit card statement HSBC sent Mr G was generated was on 
28 September 2015. 
On 29 May 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr G and advised it intended to close his credit card down 
as the account wasnt being used. HSBCs letter gave details of what Mr G needed to do if 
he wanted to keep the credit card. HSBC also sent Mr G the same letter via its secure 
messaging service. Mr Gs credit card closed in line with HSBCs letter dated 29 May 2019. 
Mr G complained to our service and his case was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
said HSBC had closed the account in line with its terms and didnt find it had treated Mr G 
unfairly. Mr G asked to appeal. 
As Mr G asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr G for the level of detail hes given in his complaint submission and 
responses to the investigator. Ive read any considered everything Mr G has said and sent 
us in support of his case. If I havent specifically referred to all the points Mr G has made it 
isnt because I havent taken them into account. My decision will focus on what I think are 
the key issues, an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service. I understand 
Mr G also complained about HSBCs actions in relation to his current account, but that 
complaint is the subject of another case. In this decision, Im going to deal with Mr Gs 
complaint about his HSBC credit card. 
In response to the investigator, Mr G said that his credit card didnt pose a security risk to 
HSBC so didnt think it was reasonable that it had been closed on that basis. HSBC has told 
us that, last year, it completed an exercise where it looked at dormant and unused facilities 
and contacted the customers to see if they wanted to retain them. I dont think there was 
ever an inference that Mr Gs specific account caused a security risk. HSBC however, has 
taken the view that unused and dormant credit card facilities may present a greater security 
risk which is why it took the step of contacting its customers. 
Ive read HSBCs letter dated 29 May 2019 and it gave Mr G the option to leave the account 
open. HSBC said it would only close the account if it didnt hear back from Mr G and once 
the two month notice period ended. Im satisfied HSBCs letter was sent to see if Mr G 
wanted to retain the credit card facility and let him know what steps he needed to take to do 
that. 
Mr G has told us that the letter wasnt received and that he has no recollection of lost mail 
from the UK. Ive looked at HSBCs letter and can confirm the address it was posted to 
matches the one Mr G has forwarded to us. HSBC has also sent us systems evidence to 
show the letter was forwarded to Mr G electronically as well. Where information is disputed 
by the parties involved, Ill base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I 
consider most likely to have happened based on all the available information and evidence. 
In this case, Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows HSBC wrote to Mr G on 
29 May 2019 as it claims and also sent him the letter electronically via its secure messaging 
system.
Whilst I understand Mr G wanted to retain his credit card facility to use when he visits the 
UK, the terms that govern the agreement say both parties can choose to end the 
arrangement. The terms say:
     When will the agreement begin and end? 
The agreement will begin when we have opened the account linked to your card. The 
agreement does not have a fixed end date but you and we can end it as explained below. 
10. How and when can this agreement be ended? 
     Ending the agreement on notice
10.1 You can end this agreement at any time and without charge by giving us notice. We 
can end the agreement by giving you two months notice in writing. 
The terms are clear in explaining that both Mr G and HSBC can decide to end the 
agreement by providing notice. The terms say HSBC had to give Mr G two months notice of 
its intention, and Im satisfied the evidence shows it did that. As HSBC closed Mr Gs credit 
card in line with the account terms, Im unable to agree it made a mistake. 
Mr G has raised concerns that HSBC has failed to act in line with industry regulations that 
say it has to treat him fairly and communicate with him in a way that is clear fair and not 
misleading. Ive taken Mr Gs comments into account but havent found that HSBC failed to 
act in line with the industry regulations. There is no requirement within the regulations or 
account terms that says correspondence or information about an account has to be sent 
more than once. As Ive said above, Im satisfied the decision to close Mr Gs credit card 
facility was fair and that HSBC contacted him to provide the required notice. 
The credit limit was £500 when the credit card was closed. Due the lack of any transactions 
since August 2015, there are no recent statements available. Mr G says HSBC reduced his 
credit limit from £1,000 to £500 as a prelude to its decision to close his account. But, the 
systems evidence Ive seen shows the credit limit was £500 back in 2015 when Mr G last 
used his credit card. Any credit limit reduction must have taken place prior to that point. 
Given HSBCs decision to close Mr Gs credit card facility was taken in May 2019, over three 
years later, Im not persuaded the credit limit reduction was connected.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But for the 
reasons Ive given above, I havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman