DRN-2499074
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to redirect a payment 
which was made to the incorrect account, or provide further information to Mrs S about the 
recipient.
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs S made an online transfer of £240 from her Santander account to a Bank 
of Ireland account, using the Faster Payment process. She intended for the money to go to 
her husband.
Almost two weeks later, Mrs S contacted Santander to let it know shed paid the money into 
the wrong account. Santander got in touch with Bank of Ireland but Bank of Ireland refused 
to refund the money as it believed the funds had credited the intended account.
Mrs S complained and asked Santander to raise the issue with Bank of Ireland again, which 
Santander said it wouldnt do, as itd already been given a final answer from the recipient 
bank. Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs S referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She told 
Mrs S that Santander had done all wed expect it to do in the circumstances and that she 
could apply to the courts if she required further information about the recipient. Mrs S 
disagreed with our investigators opinion, saying she should not have to incur the 
complication and expense of going through the courts.
As Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
For me to determine whether a payment service provider is at fault when a payment has 
been made to an unintended recipient, I have to consider what happened and whether the 
problem was caused by something the bank did or whether the bank couldve reasonably 
done more to help.
In this case, Mrs S accepts that the initial error was hers. So Im satisfied the problem wasnt 
caused by anything Santander did wrong. I therefore only need to consider whether 
Santander couldve reasonably done more to help once it was made aware of the issue. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations, banks have to take reasonable steps to recover 
money thats been mistakenly paid into the wrong account. Mrs S believes it would be 
reasonable for the banks to let her know the name of the account holder she transferred the 
money to. She also says not enough has been done to investigate the transaction.
Mrs S notified Santander of the error shed made in transferring the money to the wrong 
account, over a week after shed made the payment. The Faster Payments Scheme has 
published guidance on what banks can do to help if a payment has been sent in error. These 
state that a procedure known as the credit payment recovery process should commence 
within two working days of the bank finding out about the error. 
In this case, I can see Santander started the credit payment recovery process by contacting 
Bank of Ireland on 16 April 2020, the day after Mrs S notified it of the error. So Im satisfied it 
took swift action to try to remedy the issue. Ive seen evidence that Bank of Ireland rejected 
the claim on the basis that it couldnt identify an error had occurred and it believed the funds 
had credited the correct account. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont agree that 
Santander has failed to reasonably investigate the transaction.
Mrs S is aware that Bank of Ireland wouldnt be able to recover the money from the recipient 
if either the recipient had contested it doing so, or didnt respond to the enquiry. Our 
investigator confirmed that Bank of Ireland didnt obtain the account holders permission to 
remove the funds from the account, and it rejected the claim giving the reasons Ive 
mentioned above. In the circumstances therefore, theres no error here by Santander and so 
it wouldnt need to do anything further.
Mrs S wants to know who received the funds she intended to send to her husband. She says 
the ombudsman service exists so that customers shouldnt have to deal with the difficulties 
associated with going through the court process to obtain this information. But when it 
comes to data protection, this service is bound by the same rules as the financial businesses 
we cover. So Mrs S wont be able to obtain any information about the recipient of the funds 
through our service or through the banks  as that information contains another individuals 
personal data. 
However, Mrs S will have seen the final response letter from Santander dated 17 August 
2020, in which it explains that the account Mrs S transferred money to in April 2020 is an 
account she has transferred money to before. So, while Mrs S accepts that she made the 
initial error in transferring the money to this account when she didnt mean to in 2020, she 
hasnt been able to explain why she isnt aware of who the account belongs to, as she made 
a payment to the same account in 2016. 
As Mrs S has made a payment to the account before, she may be able to find out from her 
own records who the account belongs to and therefore who the money was credited to in 
April 2020. Neither we, nor Santander, nor Bank of Ireland can give her this information, for 
data protection reasons, unless she obtains a court order.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but as Santander hasnt made an error 
here  and its done everything wed expect it to in the circumstances  I wont be upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman