DRN-2912499
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have mishandled his plumbing and 
electrics insurance claim following a blown fuse box in December 2020.
Aviva uses intermediaries to administer its policy and manage claims on its behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, as I consider £350 
to be fair compensation for the following reasons:
Mr F has explained that he had to chase for updates on numerous occasions, was 
frequently disconnected when he did call, and was also given incorrect information 
several times. After an engineer had attended the property to inspect the fuse box, 
Mr F was told that the insurer would be in touch to arrange for its replacement, but he 
did not receive any call back. Aviva acknowledged that the service provided had 
been poor and offered £250 compensation. But I do not consider this to be 
commensurate to the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr F.
Mr F was left without electricity for an unnecessary length of time over the Christmas 
holiday, which meant that he and his family were left with no lighting, heat or cooking 
facilities over the Christmas period, and had to rely on torches and blankets. I think 
this couldve likely been avoided if Aviva had got in contact with Mr F and sent an 
electrician sooner. I appreciate an electrician was eventually sent out 18 December 
2020, who identified that the repairs couldnt in fact be carried out as Mr Fs wires 
needed upgrading, which wasnt covered under the policy. But this then left him with 
just four working days before Christmas to try and fine a tradesman to carry out the 
re-wiring, which he said he couldnt do. It isnt clear why the wiring issue wasnt 
identified when the first electrician inspected the fuse board. But on balance, Im 
satisfied this couldve ultimately been identified sooner had Aviva not delayed in 
sending another electrician, which couldve avoided Mr F and his family being without 
electricity throughout the holiday period. 
The investigator recommended an award of £350. Having considered all the 
circumstances, I consider this to be fair compensation and a proportionate reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience likely caused by Avivas handling of this claim.
I understand that Mr F wants to be issued with a refund of the premiums he has paid, 
but I do not consider this to be warranted, as Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
policy has been mis-sold, or that he wouldnt have been covered for other issues 
(such as plumbing or other electrical problems) under the policy. So, Im not 
persuaded there is any other basis for a refund of premiums in these circumstances. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay a total of £350 
compensation (made up of the £250 it has already offered, plus an additional £100) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of Mr Fs claim.
Aviva should pay this amount within 28 days of receiving Mr Fs acceptance of this decision, 
after which it will be required to pay an additional 8% simple interest per year on the award 
amount until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman