DRN-4132603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that more 2 life Ltd (M2L) failed to treat them fairly when they 
attempted to port their lifetime mortgage to a new property.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both Mr and Mrs W and M2L so Ive not set 
them out in detail. Ive instead summarised the main points below.
Mr and Mrs W took a lifetime mortgage with M2L in 2018. In late 2021 Mr and Mrs W let M2L 
know that they wished to port their mortgage to a new property and this process was started.
Mr and Mrs W agreed a purchase price with the seller of their intended property of £280,000 
and a valuation was completed by M2Ls appointed surveyor in November 2021. This said 
the estimated value of the property by Mr and Mrs W was £290,000. The surveyor valued 
the property at less than this with a valuation of £270,000.
The conveyancing process started in December 2021 and M2L didnt issue a mortgage offer 
until May 2022. When the offer was made it contained an error with Mrs Ws first name and 
still recorded the value of the property as £270,000 despite Mr and Mrs W having agreed a 
higher price than this with the sellers.
Mr and Mrs W decided they couldnt continue with the port and purchase of the property as 
they didnt have an offer which matched the value of the property they were intending to 
purchase. As their existing property had a buyer and was progressing, Mr and Mrs W 
redeemed their lifetime mortgage with M2L and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) of 
over £8000. They feel M2L should cover the cost of this as well as other associated costs 
they say they incurred as a result of the errors made by M2L which led to them being unable 
to port their mortgage as they wanted.
M2L looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and didnt agree it had made any substantive 
errors. It felt the information provided and relied on in reference to the value of the property 
they wanted to purchase was fairly considered. As such they didnt think they had made an 
error when they relied on the valuation of their surveyor. They said it had provided an offer to 
port the mortgage but Mr and Mrs W chose not to go ahead with this. But M2L felt there 
were times when their communication could have been better and it recognised how 
stressful the situation was for Mr and Mrs W and made an offer of £500 to recognise this.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think M2L needed to do anything 
else. He didnt think it had acted unfairly when it relied on the information of the surveyor 
when determining what it believed the value of the property to be. The port transaction was 
reliant on a number of other third parties to provide information and he was satisfied from the 
actions of M2L that it was actively chasing for information which it said was needed to 
progress the application. And in the absence of anything else, he didnt think there was 
sufficient information to say that M2L was the main cause of the delays in the offer being 
provided.
He felt the offer of £500 for the distress and inconvenience was fair and in line with this 
Services view on awards of this nature. And as he felt the ERC had been applied correctly, 
he didnt think it was something that M2L needed to refund, nor did he consider it liable for 
the additional costs Mr and Mrs W said they incurred as a result. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the view of the investigator and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman. They highlighted again that they believed M2L was acting unfairly 
when it relied on the valuation of the survey for the propertys value instead of using the 
agreed sale price. They dont think M2L should be dictating the price of a property and when 
the mortgage offer was produced with the lower value on it, they didnt believe it could be 
proceeded with as the purchase price did not match the sellers price and the contracts did 
not match up. 
They also highlighted concerns over:
The information relied on by the surveyor and whether the property should be 
described as ex-council. 
The communication in reference to the service charges at the property and the 
insistence of M2Ls solicitor to see a detailed breakdown of the benefits of the 
service charge payment.
That the last-minute offer produced was also invalid because of an error with Mrs Ws 
first name and the repeated issue with the wrong purchase price used as the 
property value. 
Because Mr and Mrs W disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why I think the offer 
previously made by M2L is fair and why I dont think it needs to do anything else.
Mr and Mrs W have a number of concerns with the actions of M2L and Ill deal with these in 
turn. But I think the crux of this complaint is the valuation of the property applied by M2L and 
the information it relied on when determining this.
M2L is a mortgage lender, but as with most lenders it is not an expert at valuing properties 
and so, when deciding whether a property can be deemed to provide suitable security for the 
lending it is willing to provide, it relies on expert advice. The advice should be provided by an 
expert that is suitably qualified to provide it and M2L can reasonably be expected to rely on 
such advice. 
M2L used a Chartered Surveyor company to value Mr and Mrs Ws new property and the 
surveyor who completed the valuation report was a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS) qualified surveyor. So I think M2L acted reasonably when relying on the valuation 
reports completed.
The first valuation was completed in November 2021. The value placed on the property, 
based on all other considerations of the surveyor was £270,000. This was a down value of 
£20,000 from the valuation placed on the property by Mr and Mrs W and £10,000 less than the purchase price they had agreed. 
M2L used this valuation as the valuation it was working to when determining whether it could 
port the mortgage. The mortgage terms set out that when the new property is lower in value, 
M2L can ask that part of the existing borrowing be repaid. Although Mr and Mrs W were 
paying more for the property and had agreed a price of £280,000, I dont think M2L was 
acting unfairly when relying on the valuation of its surveyor when deciding whether it agreed 
on this valuation. It has to be satisfied the property can provide suitable security and it is 
entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have questioned why later there was an indication that the 
property should be classified as an ex-council. I think this was raised in error after there was 
confusion based on the previous owner of the property and the scheme they used to help 
purchase it. I think this added in some delays which could have been avoided and Ive 
thought about this when considering the award for distress and inconvenience. But as the 
valuation was not impacted by this, I dont think it had any material impact on the decision. 
And ultimately this point was clarified with M2L being happy the property met its lending 
criteria.
The mortgage offer does not confirm the purchase price of the property, it instead states the 
value of the property as determined by M2L. This determines the level of borrowing it is 
happy to provide. M2L hasnt said the port couldnt go ahead, even if the purchase price was 
higher. But the amount it would require Mr and Mrs W to repay from their original cash lump 
sum drawn down was based on the value it placed on the property. And as Ive said, I think it 
acted fairly when reaching this value. 
However, I think it should have been made clearer to Mr and Mrs W sooner that the 
valuation of £270,000 was the value M2L placed on the new property and that any offer for 
the ported mortgage would be based on this valuation. This would have meant Mr and 
Mrs W could have decided sooner whether they could still proceed with the reduced lending 
available based on the mortgage valuation. If they didnt have the additional money available 
to cover the shortfall, they would have been given notice sooner that the mortgage with M2L 
would need to be repaid in full or that another property would need to be found. 
While I think there could have been greater communication and clarity on what the valuation 
of the property meant for M2L sooner, it was not something that Mr and Mrs W or their 
solicitor were not aware off. The valuation had been questioned by them at different points 
with one of the last times being on 4 May, three weeks before the planned completion. It was 
explained why this was different to the purchase price, so they were aware of the difference. 
And as it is not unusual for properties to be down valued, I think it should have been 
something Mr and Mrs W could have been provided advice on by the other parties to the 
conveyance.
There was a great deal of time spent during this process while M2L and its solicitor awaited 
information about the service charge and what this covered. Ive not seen that it wasnt 
chasing this regularly and it is information it was fairly asking for as it had a bearing on how it 
viewed the property as suitable security. So while I understand the frustration added when 
there was what seemed like a lot of back and forth on this point, I dont think M2L was acting 
unfairly.
Taking everything into account, I do think Mr and Mrs W have suffered distress and 
inconvenience when their port application was not successful. But I dont think it would be 
fair to say that M2L is wholly responsible for this outcome. 
I think M2L acted fairly relying on the valuation provided but when the clarity on next steps was not provided based on this valuation, distress was caused that could have been 
avoided. But ultimately, an offer was provided ahead of the planned completion date and 
M2L had made it clear for some time what value it was placing on the property. Mr and 
Mrs W decided not to proceed with the port after the offer was received and Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to ask M2L to reimburse them for their associated costs. And it 
follows, that when the port was not completed, the ERC became payable and this has been 
correctly applied in line with the original mortgage offer. 
When the offer was issued it left very little time for Mr and Mrs W to work through what they 
needed to do if they were to continue with the purchase of their new property. This will have 
included needing to get the offer reissued without the error with Mrs Ws first name. I think 
this could have been avoided as Ive said above and the impact of this is significant. Mr and 
Mrs W, at very short notice needed to change their plans and move to short term 
accommodation and this will have understandably been a very stressful time for them. But I 
think the offer made by M2L of £500 to recognise the impact of this distress and 
inconvenience is fair. And I dont think, it needs to do anything else beyond this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint as I think the 
offer previously made to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman