DRN-3972205
The complaint
Mr F complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly declined a theft 
claim under his property owners insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr F took out a Great Lakes unoccupied property owners insurance policy. He did 
this through a broker (Company A).
In December 2021, Mr F was living in rented accommodation while his above insured 
property was undergoing renovations. And electrical kitchen items that were due to 
be installed were stolen.
The claim was considered, and Great Lakes declined it, saying there was no cover 
for the theft in question under the policy terms.
Mr F disagreed and complained, saying the policy only excluded theft from open 
spaces and that wasnt the case in this instance so the claim should be covered.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened. He was satisfied the policy 
defined relevant perils covered by the insurance, and theft wasnt included within this. 
So, the exclusion related to theft outside didnt change his mind.
Mr F disagreed, asking why the exclusion referred to theft if theft wasnt a defined 
peril. So, the complaint was been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
Mr F also complained to Company A and saying it had mis-sold the policy. This 
Service has issued a final decision on this separate complaint, in which the 
Ombudsman determined:
oCompany A sold the policy on a non-advised basis and hadnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by sourcing cover as it did.
oCompany A hadnt acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner by not 
specifically pointing out that theft wasnt included as standard, or by not 
double-checking Mr Fs understanding with him after hed completed and 
signed the form. 
oStandard cover did not include theft, and Mr F did not select the extended 
cover for theft when taking out the insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision. 
The crux of this complaint is about whether Mr Fs policy contains cover for theft. Ive 
carefully read all of the relevant documentation provided, including the policy 
schedule and proposal. And as has been outlined previously, the schedule details the 
perils under the policy. Under the endorsement UN16 it specifically lists each of the 
perils covered, including fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, storm, and various 
other perils. Theft is not included within this list and this isnt in dispute.
So, on its face, it is clear to me this policy doesnt cover theft. Whether or not Mr F 
wanted that cover or believes there was an issue when being sold the policy falls to 
the separate complaint against Company A that this Service has already answered.
Mr F has argued theft is covered by the policy terms as one of the exclusions 
mentions it. This exclusion says the policy will not cover theft, wind, rain to 
movable property in the open
Mr F argues that the use of the word theft listed in this exclusion must mean that 
theft is covered by the policy  and that it is only theft from movable property in the 
open that is excluded under the terms. 
Before applying exclusions, I would need to be satisfied that an insured peril or 
insured event has taken place. Here, it is evident the policy doesnt list theft as one of 
the defined perils within the schedule. Theft doesnt form part of the standard cover 
that was taken out, nor was it selected as an add on. So, its clear to me theft isnt 
covered under Mr Fs policy.
Whether the wording couldve been clearer here, or even if I agreed the inclusion of 
the word theft isnt helpful, this wording doesnt persuade me there was cover in 
place for theft  in light of the surrounding schedule which clearly does not list it. Nor 
would this persuade me it would be fair or reasonable to direct Great Lakes to 
provide such cover when it was never taken out.
So, for the above reasons, Im satisfied Mr Fs policy does not include cover for theft 
and it follows Great Lakes has fairly declined the claim.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman