DRN-3490452
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the outcome of a claim he made to Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited (Omni) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in whole or part, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. 
In order for me to decide there had been a misrepresentation here I would have to be 
persuaded that:
Mr B had been given a false statement of fact by the supplier when he was 
negotiating the deal, and;
that the false statement of fact led him to enter into an agreement he wouldnt have 
otherwise entered into.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence of the second test. 
Mr B says that he wouldnt have proceeded with the deal had he known the heater wasnt 
capable of keeping people warm, year-round, within its footprint. He says if he knew that was 
the case he would have recovered the gazebo that was already in place. Hes explained that 
he wouldnt use mobile heaters as the cables would be hazardous and gas heaters are not 
environmentally friendly.
Im not persuaded by that argument. When Mr B arranged for the salesman to provide a 
quote for a veranda hes explained that was because it was a more robust alternative to the 
gazebo he had. It also covered a larger footprint and Mr B has explained that it would 
improve the property. Mr Bs claim has been reduced as he accepts a future potential 
purchaser of the property might find value in the veranda. Those benefits would apply with 
or without a heater. 
But Mr B has explained that hed not considered the use of a radiant heater before the 
salesperson mentioned it. Hes explained that he wouldnt have written to the supplier about 
its performance if it wasnt important to him. I can understand that this wouldve made the 
contract more attractive but given the benefits Mr B had already identified with the purchase 
of a veranda, that Ive listed above, I dont think the inclusion of a heater could be said to be 
the reason Mr B agreed to the contract, or the omission (or inadequacy) of a heater to be a 
reasonable reason to suspect he wouldnt have entered into the agreement without it. 
So, I dont think there has been a misrepresentation here as I dont think the second test has 
been made out.
And, even if Im wrong about the second test I dont think theres sufficient evidence of the 
first test either. When the supplier emailed Mr B in September 2019 he explained that one 
heater would be enough for that size veranda. Im not persuaded that was a false 
statement of fact. Whilst I understand Mr B has provided significant evidence to counter that 
argument its also clear that what would be considered enough is subjective and will vary 
not only with the recipient but also with the weather conditions.
The supplier has made several offers to resolve matters for Mr B. Those include offers to 
refund the heater (£600); pay Mr B £1,000, or provide a further heater. Whilst I understand a 
further heater of this type on the wall wont improve matters much I think the other offers are 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I dont therefore think Omni were unreasonable when rejecting Mr Bs claim. There was no 
misrepresentation and the supplier had offered fair and reasonable redress in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman