DRN-4378294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV voiding 
their private medical insurance and only paying part of their claim.
What happened
On 7 January 2023 Mr D took out a non-advised Global Individual Private Medical Insurance 
policy online, underwritten by CIGNA. The policy covered Mr and Mrs D. 
On 24 January 2023 Mrs D attended a GP appointment which Mr and Mrs D say was 
booked as a routine cervical smear appointment. They then travelled abroad.
On 31 January 2023, while abroad, Mrs D called CIGNA for pre-authorisation for a private 
consultation as on 24 January 2023 her GP had identified a cervical polyp that needed 
investigation. Mrs D sent CIGNA her GPs referral letter dated 24 January 2023 which said 
Mrs D had persistent bleeding for six weeks and had been on HRT for three years. Mr and 
Mrs D say CIGNA pre-authorised the consultation. CIGNA say it hadnt been pre-authorised 
and the claim was being reviewed. 
On 1 February 2023 Mrs D had the private consultation which confirmed a polyp and 
possible womb thickening.
On 3 February 2023 Mrs D called CIGNA for pre-authorisation for a surgical procedure to 
remove the polyp. CIGNA says in error it pre-authorised that procedure without a review. 
The procedure to remove the polyp for investigation took place that day,
On 4 February Mr and Mrs D received an email from CIGNA saying the polyp was a pre-
existing medical condition and it had cancelled the policy.
In its final response letter CIGNA said when Mr and Mrs D were asked medical questions 
when they took out the policy they hadnt disclosed Mrs Ds symptoms of persistent bleeding 
or that she took HRT, so they had answered the questions incorrectly. CIGNA considered 
Mr and Mrs D had made a reckless or deliberate qualifying misrepresentation. And CIGNA 
said if it had known the correct situation about Mrs Ds symptoms it wouldnt have offered the 
policy which enabled it to cancel the policy and decline the claims. 
However, CIGNA said it would pay for Mrs Ds surgery, which it had pre-authorised in error. 
It wouldnt cover the treatment she had on 1 February 2023, which it said it hadnt pre-
authorised or Mrs Ds private post-surgery consultation 9 February 2023 which was after it 
had told Mr and Mrs D the policy had been cancelled. CIGNA also said it would reconsider 
its decision if it received a new medical report by Mrs Ds GP giving different evidence, 
acknowledging errors in her letter of 24 January 2023 and providing an explanation for the 
errors.
Mr and Mrs D complained to us. In summary they said:
Mr D first contacted CIGNA around 3 January 2023 to discuss getting a quote and at 
that time Mrs D would have been bleeding about one and a half weeks. That was her 
usual monthly bleed, so wouldnt have been an ongoing symptom she was 
concerned about.
She couldnt have had a cervical smear if shed been bleeding. So the fact she had a 
smear shows she wasnt bleeding on 24 January 2023 and her bleeding wasnt 
continuous. Her regular light monthly bleed started on the 21 December 2022 and 
lasted for around two and half weeks with spotting in-between.
Mrs Ds GP could confirm the 24 January 2023 appointment had been booked just 
for a routine cervical smear and repeat HRT prescription, not because she had any 
medical symptoms.
They accepted they hadnt told CIGNA about Mrs Ds HRT medication, which was an 
oversight. 
CIGNA had given Mrs D a pre-authorisation code for the consultation on 1 February 
2023.
CIGNAs decision had caused them a lot of upset and inconvenience. Theyd been 
left abroad without any health insurance and had a frustrating experience trying to 
complain to CIGNA. That was during the very stressful time of waiting to find out if 
there was any abnormal cell growth around the polyp.
They want CIGNA to also pay the cost of the initial consultation on 1 February 2023, 
the cost of the post-surgery consultation on 9 February 2023 and compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience. Initially they wanted CIGNA to reinstate the policy 
but theyve now got alternative cover.
Our investigator said CIGNA had acted reasonably in considering that Mr and Mrs D had 
made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, voiding the policy but paying the claim it 
had pre-authorised.
Mr and Mrs D disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added:
Mrs Ds GP would be able to confirm she hadnt been bleeding continuously for six 
weeks when she saw the GP. Mrs D went to her GP or a clinic every six months for 
the past three years and no medical professional had been concerned about her 
usual monthly bleed or told her it was a medical condition. 
The polyp was only found on Mrs Ds smear test on 24 January 2023. So CIGNA was 
wrong to say it was a pre-existing medical condition when they took out the policy. 
The emails between them and CIGNA showed the start of their process to get a pre-
authorisation code over the phone for the consultation on 1 February 2023. CIGNA 
must have the authorisation code on record. 
If CIGNA had said from the start Mrs D wasnt eligible for cover they would have 
accepted that response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CIGNA thinks Mr and Mrs D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they answered no to the following questions for Mrs D when they bought the policy:
Q3 Apart from what you have already told us, is any applicant taking any medication 
or receiving any treatment for a medical condition?
CIGNA says from the medical information it had seen Mrs D had been on HRT for three 
years which she should have told it about in response to the question.
Q5 Does anyone have any illness, condition or symptom not already mentioned? 
Please include details of any known or suspected issues whether or not medical 
advice has been sought or a diagnosis reached. 
CIGNA says from the medical information it had seen Mrs Ds persistent pelvic bleeding for 
six weeks mentioned in the GPs letter of 24 January 2023 would have started in mid-
December 2022 so should have been disclosed. 
I think the questions CIGNA asked were clear and specific and Im satisfied that the potential 
implications of answering incorrectly were made clear to Mr and Mrs D at the time of the 
sale. 
Based on what Ive seen I dont think Mr and Mrs D took reasonable care in answering the 
questions as they did, so I think they did make a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. In other words, whether the incorrect information they provided would 
have made any difference to the insurance terms CIGNA would have offered them.
CIGNA provided a copy of its underwriting criteria which shows that if it had been provided 
with the correct information that Mrs D had ongoing symptoms not yet investigated it would 
have declined cover. So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one.
CIGNA also cancelled the policy in line with the policy terms:
3. The information you give us
In deciding whether to accept this policy and in setting the terms and premium, we 
have relied on the information that you have given to us. You must take care when answering any questions that we ask by ensuring that all information is accurate and 
complete. 
If we determine on reasonable grounds that you deliberately or recklessly provided 
us with false or misleading information, it could adversely affect this policy and any 
claim. For example, we may: 
treat this policy as if it had never existed, refuse to pay all claims and return 
the premium paid. We will only do this if we provided you with insurance 
cover which we would not otherwise have offered; 
amend the terms of your insurance. We may apply these amended terms as if 
they were already in place if a claim has been adversely impacted by your 
carelessness; or 
terminate in accordance with 6.2. 
We will notify you in writing if any of the above circumstances occur. If you become 
aware that information you have given us is inaccurate, you must inform us as soon 
as possible using one of the options in the How to contact us section on page 3 of 
these Policy Rules.

6.2 Subject to clause 3, we will terminate this policy with immediate effect if, we, at 
our sole discretion determine, on reasonable grounds, that you have, in the course of 
applying for the policy or when making any claim under it, withheld information or 
knowingly or recklessly provided information which you know or believe to be untrue 
or inaccurate or failed to provide information which we have asked for, including 
medical information.
Ive thought about how CIGNA classified the misrepresentation. CIGNA said that given the 
medical information it considers Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. That means CIGNA thought Mr and Mrs D knew the information they provided was 
untrue or misleading or didnt care whether it was untrue or misleading, and they knew that 
the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or did not care 
whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
In all the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for CIGNA to have classed the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. I say that having reviewed the medical 
information and Mr and Mrs Ds comments.
Mrs Ds GPs referral letter of 24 January 2023 says:
I would be grateful for your assessment of (Mrs D) presenting to me as of 24/1/2023 
with the following:
Has had more or less persistent pv bleeding x 6 weeks and has eased off x 2 weeks, 
initially had clots and no associated abdominal pain
On HRT x 3 years and has always had a light monthly withdrawal bleed up until 
6 weeks ago.
Speculum exam- bright red polyp visible and extending from the cervical os - 
?cause of the pv bleeding
2. cervical smear sent
Plan-refer to gynaecologist = requires further assessment of pv bleeding incl? polyp 
removal.From the evidence in Mrs Ds GPs letter of 24 January 2023 I think CIGNA reasonably 
considered that:
Theres no evidence Mrs D was booked to see the GP just for a routine cervical 
smear. 
As at 24 January 2023 Mrs D had more or less persistent pelvic bleeding for six 
weeks, initially with clots, but the bleeding had eased off over the last two weeks. 
That means Mrs Ds bleeding would have started around 13 December 2022 so at 
the time Mr and Mrs D answered the questions to take out the policy Mrs Ds 
bleeding would have been ongoing for three weeks. And that would have been during 
the time of bleeding being initially with clots.
That pattern of bleeding was unusual for Mrs D as the GPs letter says she always 
had a light monthly withdrawal (from HRT) bleed up until 6 weeks ago.
The medical report from the gynaecologist dated 11 February 2023 says that when they saw 
Mrs D on 1 February 2023:
she consulted me for abnormal bleeding pv for 1 week. In the month of January 
2023, she had spotting per vagina off and on throughout the month.
The gynaecologists report does give different from the evidence in the GPs letter. But that 
doesnt alter that there is medical evidence from the GP making the referral that Mrs Ds 
unusual bleeding symptoms began before the policy started.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds explanations as to why they didnt disclose her symptoms. 
CIGNA isnt saying they knew Mrs D had a polyp or she was diagnosed with a related 
medical condition before they took out the policy. CIGNA is saying that in response to the 
above questions Mr and Mrs D were asked when they took out the policy they should have 
told it about Mrs Ds unusual bleed symptoms. 
I think the questions Mr and Mrs D were asked were clear that CIGNA wanted to know about 
any symptoms whether or not medical advice has been sought or a diagnosis reached. Even 
if Mrs D wasnt bleeding on 24 January 2023 there is still the evidence from the GP that she 
had said shed been bleeding more or less persistently for the past six weeks, and that was 
unusual for her. Mrs Ds evidence that her regular light monthly bleed started on the 
21 December 2022 and lasted for around two and a half weeks with spotting in-between isnt 
supported by the evidence the GP gave in the 24 January 2023 letter.
Mrs D says her GP can provide another report supporting that she hadnt been persistently 
bleeding for six weeks when she went to see the GP on 24 January 2023. CIGNAs final 
response letter to Mr and Mrs D of 4 April 2023 acknowledged that health care providers can 
make errors and said it would reconsider its decision if Mrs Ds GP provided a new report. It 
set out what the GP should cover in the new report, in brief that her letter of 24 January 2023 
was wrong, what she should have said, and to provide an explanation on how the errors 
were made in the letter of 24 January 2023. Ive seen no new report from the GP and its for 
Mr and Mrs D to contact the GP to get the new report to support their claim. I think the 
issues CIGNA asked the GP to address in any new report she provides are reasonable. If 
Mrs D can obtain a report from her GP addressing those issues she should send the new 
report to CIGNA to reconsider.
On the basis of the medical information CIGNA currently has Im satisfied CIGNA could treat 
Mr and Mrs Ds misrepresentation as reckless or deliberate. Ive looked at the actions 
CIGNA could take in accordance with CIDRA. If the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy, refuse all claims as effectively the 
policy never existed and need not return the premiums.
So Im satisfied CIGNA was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Ds policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as that means in effect the policy never existed, CIGNA didnt have to deal with 
their claims. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I think allowing CIGNA to rely on it to avoid Mr and Mrs Ds policy gives a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. However, CIGNA is willing to pay for Mrs Ds surgery 
that it had pre-authorised in error, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs D say if CIGNA had refused cover immediately they would have accepted its 
decision and CIGNAs pre-authorisation for Mrs Ds consultation on 1 February 2023 led 
them to incur that cost when it cancelled the policy a few days later. I havent seen any 
evidence that CIGNA pre-authorised the consultation Mrs D had on 1 February 2023. CIGNA 
said the pre-authorisation request was under review, which was its correct process. The 
emails Mr and Mrs D have provided dont show that CIGNA had pre-authorised the 
1 February consultation. By the time Mrs D had the post-surgery consultation on the 
9 February 2023 she knew CIGNA had cancelled the policy and there was no cover. Ive 
explained above why I think CIGNA acted fairly and reasonably in voiding the policy. So on 
the evidence I have CIGNA acted reasonably in not covering the consultations on 1 and 
9 February 2023.
I understand it was upsetting and stressful for Mr and Mrs D to receive CIGNAs letter 
cancelling the policy at an already very worrying time while Mrs D was waiting for the 
investigation results. But as I think CIGNA acted fairly and reasonably on the medical 
evidence it had theres no basis on which I can award compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience its decision caused.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman