DRN-3924306
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) was irresponsible in lending to him 
because the loans werent affordable.
 
What happened
Mr R was advanced a total of three loans by L2G and a summary of his borrowing can be 
found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £600.00 23/08/2021 25/09/2021 18 £123.33
2 £1,000.00 16/12/2021 29/12/2021 18 £205.56
3 £1,000.00 24/04/2022 13/05/2022 78 £47.44
Its worth noting a couple of points.
1. Loan 2 was withdrawn because it was repaid in full within 14 days of the loan being 
advanced. 
2. The number of instalments and highest repayment for loan 3 is based on weekly 
payments whereas loans 1 and 2 were repaid monthly. 
Mr R complained that L2G hadnt properly checked he could afford the loans. L2G issued a 
final response letter explaining why the checks it had carried out were proportionate and that 
it showed these loans to be affordable. However, it did, as a gesture of goodwill offer Mr R 
£100 to bring the complaint to a close.
Mr R didnt accept this offer and asked for the Financial Ombudsman to investigate the 
complaint. 
In the adjudicators latest assessment, he partly upheld the complaint. He didnt think L2G 
had made an error when it approved loans 1 and 2. However, the adjudicator thought loan 3 
shouldnt have been granted. Had L2G carried out further checks before advancing this loan 
 as he thought L2G ought to have done  it wouldve discovered the loan repayment wasnt 
affordable for him. 
Mr R appears to have accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
L2G didnt agree and Ive summarised its response below.
For loan 3, following further checks, it reduced Mr Rs monthly income to £1,775 per 
month. 
This loan looked affordable based on the information Mr R provided as well as the 
checks it carried out. 
L2G wasnt obliged to review Mr Rs bank statements and the decision to lend was 
based on the information Mr R provided. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R would have been able to do so?
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under the loan agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant the business had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr R undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. He should have been able to meet repayments out of normal income without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other payment he had 
a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R (and L2G) appear to have accepted the adjudicators findings about loans 1 and 2. In 
my view, these loans are no longer in dispute and therefore I wont be making a finding 
about them in this decision. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the final 
loan.  Instead, this decision will focus on what happened when L2G approved loan 3. 
Loan 3
L2G carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done for the previous two. It 
started off by asking Mr R about his income. He declared a monthly income of £2,400. 
However, as part of L2Gs checks it carried out income verification and having done so, it 
reduced Mr Rs income to around £1,775. 
It also asked Mr R for details of his expenditure, which Mr R explained came to around 
£1,330 per month  which included payments for home, utilities, food, transport, other credit 
commitments as well as other regular expenditure. 
Therefore, using the verified income L2G received, along with the expenditure, Mr R had 
around £445 per month in disposable income. Solely based on the income and expenditure 
information the loan looked to be afford. 
In addition, a credit search was carried out and a summary of the results has been provided, 
and these results didnt show L2G any concerning information such as late payments, 
defaults or other types of insolvency. 
However, Im concluding the checks at this point in the lending relationship werent sufficient.  
Mr R was yet again returning to L2G for a loan to be repaid over a similar period of time  18 
months. I accept that the two previous loans had been repaid much sooner than L2G had 
anticipated but the fact he was returning yet again for another loan ought to have put L2G on 
notice that it may need to carry out further checks to ensure the information Mr R was 
providing was accurate. 
Although I dont think the checks L2G did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that isnt 
a good enough reason for me to uphold Mr Rs complaint. In order for Mr Rs complaint to 
succeed, I need to be able to say that proportionate checks would likely have shown L2G 
that there was a real risk Mr R wouldnt be able to afford the repayments sustainably.
Mr R has sent us bank statements for the month before he took out the loan and as I think 
further checks ought to have been carried out, I think its entirely reasonable to consider 
these. But I accept there were other ways L2G couldve carried out a proportionate check 
such as asking for wage slips, copy bills or any other documentation it may have wished to 
ask for. From the bank statements, Mr Rs income was significantly lower than even L2G adjusted. 
From what I can see, Mr Rs income was around £1,200 in the month before this loan was 
advanced. Although the income, having reviewed the statements from the start of 2022 did 
fluctuate. Mr R says he worked for an agency, so this may explain the variable income. 
Which is concerning because it means that Mr Rs income could go up as well as down and 
L2G need to consider that given the term of the loan
Ive also looked at the direct debts that are paid from the account and these come to nearly 
£1,000 each month. But this doesnt account for other items such as food, transport or any 
other regular monthly living costs he had. So, his living costs were likely to be greater than 
this. Based on the figures, from the most recent month the loan repayment wasnt affordable 
for him. 
I think if L2G had carried out proportionate checks it would have realised that Mr R couldnt 
afford the repayments he was due to make in a sustainable manner for a loan over 78 weeks 
(18 months). I say this because his income does appear to fluctuate but the living costs 
appear to remain fairly stable and there was a risk that Mr R wouldnt have sufficient income 
each month in order to meet his repayments. 
So, for the reasons set out above, L2G shouldnt have provided Mr R with this loan and Ive 
outlined below what it needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in 
respect of loan 3, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded L2G 
shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the 
amounts paid back under the loan agreement. 
L2G should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 3;
treat any payments made by Mr R as payments towards the capital amount;
If Mr R has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. L2G should give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman