DRN-2196307
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed him for his 
losses after he transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. Mr R has explained he has been the victim of a scam and was tricked into 
sending the following payments to someone he believed to be an investment company:
14 May 2019 £42,042.50
25 June 2019 £25,042.50
Mr R feels that NatWest ought to have noticed these payments were unusual and looked 
into the matter further. He feels if it had questioned him about the investments he believed 
he was making it wouldve uncovered the scam. He also feels NatWest shouldve done more 
to try and recall the funds when he reported fraud had taken place. NatWest didnt accept it 
shouldve done more in this case so Mr R asked us to look into things.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They felt that:
Given that the payments were both significantly unusual for Mr R they felt NatWest 
ought to have made enquiries about the payments on both occasions.
Whilst they didnt think enquiries into the first payment likely wouldve uncovered the 
scam, by the time the second payment was made the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) had issued a warning the investment company had been cloned and they 
wouldve expected NatWest to have discovered this and alerted Mr R to it.
As this didnt happen, they felt NatWest had missed the opportunity to prevent Mr R 
from making the second payment to the scammers. 
The investigator asked NatWest to refund the second payment to Mr R and pay him £300 
compensation to recognise any distress and inconvenience caused. NatWest accepted their 
findings. Mr R also accepted the investigators findings regarding the second payment but 
still felt NatWest should reimburse him for the first. So the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should NatWest have done more to prevent the transfers Mr R made?
Theres no dispute the transfers Mr R made were authorised payments even though he was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. He made the payments himself and under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, and so Mr R is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
NatWest initially said these payments were made online but Mr R has said he made both 
payments to the scammers in branch in May and June 2019. NatWest hasnt provided any 
evidence to the contrary and now seems to have accepted they were initiated in branch do 
Ive proceeded on this basis. 
The amounts being paid were significantly larger than previous activity on the account. Both 
payments were made to a single overseas bank account to which Mr R had never made 
payments before. So I think both payments shouldve prompted intervention from NatWest 
and they had ample opportunity to do so given the payments seems to have been initiated in 
branch, which also means NatWest needed to follow the Banking Protocol where 
appropriate. 
In the circumstances I think staff in branch ought to have asked Mr R about the payment he 
was making. And had it done so, I cant see any reason he wouldnt have told them he was 
making an investment given that he thought he was dealing with a genuine company. And 
after ascertaining this I think staff ought to have asked probing questions and to get into the 
detail in order to test the purpose of the payments. NatWest has also acknowledged due to 
the size of the payment Mr R shouldve been asked to complete a My Customer Protection 
form. But it hasnt been able to provide anything to show this did happen.
Overall, I dont think Ive seen persuasive evidence NatWest did make sufficient enquiries 
into the payments before they were made. 
Would NatWests intervention have made a difference?
Although Im satisfied NatWest ought reasonably to have done more to question Mr R when 
he made the payments, I also have to consider whether or not I think this wouldve more 
likely than not prevented him from making the payments he did.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think its reasonable to expect NatWest should have 
had an awareness of investments scams, how they might work and systems in place to try 
and protect its customers from them. And, in line with banking protocal are a number of enquiries Id have reasonably expected 
NatWest to make if Mr R had told them he was investing the money. For example, the bank 
could have asked if he was cold-called, how he came across the company and what returns 
hed been promised to see if any of the answers mirrored what the bank ought to have 
known about the way investment scams tend to be perpetrated . 
 
I think there is also information NatWest ought reasonably to have given Mr R when it was 
making these enquiries. For example, I think it ought to have warned Mr R that fraudsters 
can and do try and pass themselves off as existing regulated investment companies. I also 
think it ought to have drawn his attention to the FCA website, specifically the information on 
avoiding fraudulent investment scams including its fraud warning list. 
Mr R has said the investment company was recommended to him by a trusted family 
member whod already made a number of investments. He tells us he carried out his own 
checks which, given everything Ive seen, mightve included checking the FCA register. 
Which suggests to me some understanding of the importance of dealing with a genuine, 
reputable firm. 
Mr R had also been given persuasive literature and contracts relating to the investments he 
thought he was making and the rate of return wasnt so unrealistic that I think it wouldve 
given NatWest reasonable doubt about its authenticity. So, overall, its clear he was 
persuaded the transactions were genuine and I think it wouldve taken more than the type of 
enquiries Ive highlighted above to persuade him not to continue or alert him to the scam.
Had NatWest enquired about the payments, in addition to the above, I think its reasonable 
to expect that as part of testing the plausibility of the information Mr R gave, it ought to have 
carried out its own checks. In the case of the first payment, I dont think there was any 
information available that wouldve alerted NatWest to the scam. And as Ive explained I 
dont think the enquiries it ought to have made wouldve prevented Mr R from going ahead 
with things.
But, by the time the second payment was made a warning had been placed on the FCA 
register. Had NatWest made enquiries and followed this up with reasonable checks I think 
its likely it wouldve uncovered this information and warned Mr R not to proceed. Had it done 
so I think its likely he wouldnt have made the second payment and the scam wouldve come 
undone.
In the case of both payments Mr R has said he thinks NatWest ought to have discovered the 
account was in a different name to the company he thought he was dealing with. He feels 
this alone shouldve alerted it to the scam and both payments wouldve been prevented. But 
I think Mr R had a plausible explanation for sending the money overseas and there are 
legitimate reasons a customer might do this. 
So I dont think this alone wouldve been enough to alert NatWest to a scam in this particular 
case. And overall, its not unusual for scammers to coach victims into giving cover stories 
for the payments theyre making. So, I think its more likely than not that had Mr R been 
asked about the bank account being in a different company name, the scammers wouldve 
provided a plausible explanation for this.
Overall, based on the balance of probabilities and the evidence Ive seen, I dont think an 
intervention from NatWest would more likely than not have prevented Mr R from making the 
first payment to scammers. But I think had it challenged him as it ought to have, its likely the 
scam wouldve been uncovered when he made the second and the payment wouldnt have 
been made. As such I think NatWest should reimburse Mr R for this amount.Did NatWest try and recover the funds?
Mr R told NatWest hed been a victim of fraud on 26 June 2019. Once it had discovered this 
I wouldve expected it to act immediately in trying to recover the funds from the beneficiarys 
bank account. 
Whilst I think NatWest shouldve acted quicker in trying to recall the payments, I can see that 
when the receiving bank responded it didnt cooperate with NatWest and stated Mr R 
needed to contact his broker as the beneficiary claimed hed received the services hed paid 
for. I havent seen anything to suggest that had NatWest acted sooner this response 
wouldve been any different so Im not persuaded the delay has impacted the return of the 
funds.
Mr has also raised concerns about the information NatWest gave the receiving bank, 
whether it shouldve provided a police report and the delays in updating Mr R on the situation 
along with other concerns about the way NatWest answered his complaint. 
Whilst I recognise the worry and upset this situation wouldve caused him at that time, Ive 
seen that NatWest did everything I wouldve expected in requesting a return of both 
payments. And, based on what Ive seen, I dont think theres anything NatWest couldve 
done differently that wouldve prompted the beneficiary to cooperate or respond any 
differently. 
Overall, I think NatWest missed an opportunity to uncover the scam and prevent Mr R from 
making one of the payments he did. As a result I think he has been caused distress and 
inconvenience and NatWest should make a payment of £300 in recognition of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Reimburse £25,042.50 to Mr R plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
(25 June 2019) to the date of settlement*
Pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
* If NatWest considers its required by HM Revenue & Customers to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman