DRN-4307528
The complaint
Mr L complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly approved a 
conditional sale agreement with him that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L used a conditional sale agreement from Moneybarn to acquire a 
used car. The agreement required Mr L to make 59 monthly payments of £312. The sale 
price of the car was £8,347, which combined with the cost of the finance gave a total of 
£18,817 to pay. 
Mr L fell into arrears on the agreement about six months later. Problems persisted, with 
Moneybarn sending warnings he might default in 2020 and 2021. But with the help of 
payment plans Mr L was able to continue meeting his commitments under the agreement. In 
July 2022 Moneybarn waived £5,589 still owed, ending the agreement and giving ownership 
of the car to Mr L. 
With the help of a representative, Mr L complained in January 2023 that lending to him had 
been irresponsible and unaffordable. Moneybarn responded in May 2023, saying they felt 
their decision to lend to Mr L had been reasonable.
Moneybarn said theyd carried out a full credit search before lending. And theyve shown us 
payslips Mr L provided that theyd used to consider his income. Moneybarn said they 
compared that with data from the Office for National Statistics to conclude Mr L had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the monthly payments needed by the agreement. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this response, so the complaint came to us. One of our investigators 
took note of the size of the loan and some credit agreements Mr L had defaulted on in the 
months before applying for the finance. They felt these should have prompted Moneybarn to 
do more detailed checks before lending to Mr L. But our investigator felt the information 
about Mr Ls income and expenditure at the time showed it would have been reasonable for 
Moneybarn to lend to him, even with better checks. 
Mr L didnt agree with that view. His representative felt more should have been done to 
consider Mr Ls personal circumstances in 2018. Unresolved, the complaints come to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why Ive decided Moneybarn dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. That means Im not upholding it, even though Ive found Moneybarn should have 
done more to check Mr L could afford to repay the money he borrowed. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Moneybarn to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend someone money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. If they did, was their decision to then lend to Mr L fair? If they didnt, would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr L could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances.
Here, the borrowing was to last for a long time  five years  with a significant monthly 
commitment  £312. That created a need for Moneybarn to complete a thorough check of 
Mr Ls circumstances at the time. 
Moneybarn went some way towards doing that, by getting copies of Mr Ls payslips. That 
would have given them a reasonable insight about the money he had available each month. 
Balanced against that was statistical data about typical outgoings. The guidelines in CONC 
say this would be acceptable unless there was other information to tell Moneybarn that the 
data they were using wasnt reasonably representative of Mr Ls situation.
Moneybarn confirm they completed a check of Mr Ls credit record. Ive seen a recent 
version of this, which includes some of the details that Moneybarn could have seen in 
November 2018. 
The credit record suggests Mr Ls situation was somewhat different to the typical person 
represented by the ONS data. Mr L had defaulted on seven credit agreements in the six 
months prior to his application with Moneybarn. 
That should have prompted Moneybarn to ask Mr L for more details about his specific 
outgoings, and the reasons for the defaults. They dont appear to have done that, so I find 
that the checks they completed werent reasonable. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr L could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I cant be certain what Moneybarn would have asked for from Mr L to confirm his expenditure 
and the details of his previous borrowing. Ive seen bank statements Mr Ls provided from 
the time though, which give me some insight into what Moneybarn could have seen, if theyd 
completed a reasonable and proportionate check in this case. 
From those statements, I can see Mr Ls committed spending wasnt any more than the ONS 
data used by Moneybarn had suggested it would be. Mr L did spend all of his income each month, plus more that he borrowed from his partner. But most of that spending was on 
discretionary items  things Mr L had a choice about spending his money on. 
From this, Moneybarn could reasonably have concluded Mr L would be able to afford the 
payments needed by the agreement they were considering giving him. 
Ive thought about whether Moneybarn should have done more to factor the seven defaults 
in the six months prior to November 2018 into their decision. I can appreciate these showed 
Mr L might not make the payments needed under the agreement. But I cant see there was 
anything Moneybarn could have seen that showed these defaults were caused by issues the 
guidelines  specifically in CONC 5.2A.22  say they should have considered. 
While I can appreciate Mr L has now told us he was receiving treatment for anxiety and 
depression, that wouldnt necessarily have been apparent to Moneybarn at the time. Mr L 
would have needed to tell them about it, which I cant be sure he would have done even if 
asked about the circumstance behind the defaults.
The defaults on their own dont point towards Mr L being vulnerable in some way, but would 
be consistent with him being in financial difficulties. So, as Ive explained above, this should 
have prompted Moneybarn to do more checks.  But Mr Ls bank statements suggest he had 
the money he needed to afford the agreements; the issue was more how he chose to spend 
his money. So the cause of the defaults seems not to have been a financial difficulty, but 
instead the result of how Mr L chose to manage his money and prioritise his spending.
That would have been a factor in how much of a risk Moneybarn were willing to take lending 
to Mr L. But that was a risk they could choose to take if they wanted. The information Ive 
seen all suggests the risk of this agreement being unaffordable for Mr L was low, due to how 
his salary compared to his committed expenses. 
As such, I dont consider it was irresponsible for Moneybarn to lend to Mr L in this instance. 
He appeared to have the money needed to be able to afford his committed expenses and 
this agreement. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman