DRN-1587641
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that AXA Insurance Plc failed to pay all the costs of the 
repair of their caravan under their caravan policy following it being damaged.
Mr and Mrs W are represented by Mr A.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws caravan was parked over a man hole cover and that broke causing one of 
the caravans wheels to fall into the subsequent void causing damage. Mr and Mrs W made 
a claim to AXA.
AXA examined the caravan and decided it was repairable. It said the repairers where the 
caravan was initially taken too no longer wished to deal with Mr W so it would arrange for the 
caravan to be returned to Mr W and make a cash settlement for the repairs, less the excess. 
It also apologised that some of its investigations caused delays and offered Mr and Mrs W 
£200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was enough to repair all the damage as they believe the 
chassis was damaged in the incident. They also felt their caravan should be written off and 
AXA should pay them the insured value.  AXA disagreed.
Remaining unhappy Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us. Ultimately the investigator 
didnt think AXA needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I understand and appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with my decision. 
However we are an evidenced based organisation, so my role is to assess the evidence 
produced by both parties and assess whether having regard to the terms and condition of 
AXAs policy whether it has done anything wrong. 
The policy says the following under the section "Claims Settlement"
"We will at Our option either 
(a) pay the cost of repairing or replacing damaged parts of the Caravan and/or 
Equipment 
(b) replace the Caravan and/or Equipment if lost, stolen or damaged beyond 
economic repair 
(c) pay an amount equivalent to the value of any loss of or damage to the 
Caravan and/or Equipment.
The most we will pay for any claim is shown on Your policy Schedule and the
cover summary table on Page 3."
So it is for AXA to make its own decision on what repairs it will do or whether the caravan 
should be written off. My role is to ensure it comes to this decision reasonably and I think it 
has.
This is because in September 2019, it instructed independent engineers to assess the 
damage to the caravan given Mr and Mrs Ws view that their caravans chassis was now 
badly damaged as a result of the incident and in view of the dispute that had arisen between 
the repairers and Mr and Mrs W. That report was very clear and in my view persuasive that 
the chassis wasnt damaged as Mr and Mrs W feared. 
Notwithstanding this, Mr and Mrs W produced some further evidence of their own in relation 
to laser measurements via video which they appeared to have undertaken themselves and 
said this proved the chassis was damaged and that the caravan was out of line. 
We asked AXA to comment on this. It asked both the original assessor and independent 
engineers to comment. And quite rightly both these reports questioned the video 
assessment as its not clear it was performed in a controlled environment to reduce external 
variances. The independent engineer noted, it appeared that the images of the level being 
placed underneath the chassis members at locations both forward and rearwards of the axle, 
show the chassis members to be level also, which would appear to confirm that this is no 
distortion present. 
Therefore Im not persuaded this evidence from Mr and Mrs W is robust enough scientifically 
to prove their point. I am more persuaded by the expertise of both the original assessor and 
the independent engineer.
Therefore I dont consider that AXA needs to do anything more beyond the cash settlement it 
has already offered less the excess plus its compensation for the initial delays of £200.
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman