DRN-1462895
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance Ltd automatically renewed his motor insurance 
policy and misled him about the cost of the premium. He wants the policy cancelled, and a 
refund of his premium and cancellation charges.
What happened
Mr S took out a policy online with Tesco. A year later, it automatically renewed. But Mr S 
said he hadnt consented to this. He said hed already taken out cheaper cover elsewhere 
and he cancelled the Tesco policy. He said his email wasnt working so he didnt receive any 
renewal notices. Tesco said it had warned Mr S when he first took out his policy that it would 
be auto-renewed. It said it sent him emails notifying him of this and the premium and it told 
him he may be able to get cheaper cover elsewhere. It said it had sent Mr S a breakdown of 
the cancellation costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Tesco 
had given Mr S clear information that his policy would auto-renew. She thought it had sent 
the notifications by email and it wasnt responsible for Mr Ss email account not working. She 
thought it was for the underwriter to set the premiums. She didnt see evidence that Mr S 
had taken out another policy before Tesco renewed his cover. She thought Tesco had 
provided clear information about the cancellation costs.
Mr S replied that he thought Tesco shouldnt have put unaffordable cover on his car without 
asking him. He said he had to pay to cancel the policy which was unfair when he didnt know 
the cost in the first place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was unhappy that his policy with Tesco auto-renewed without his consent. We 
generally think that automatic renewals are good for consumers as they decrease the 
chance of a consumer being uninsured. But we think the broker should give reasonable 
notification of this.
Ive looked at what happened when Mr S first took out his policy and at the information that 
Mr S was later given. 
In the online application process, I can see that Mr S was told that his policy would auto-
renew unless he contacted Tesco to tell it otherwise. This was also set out in his policy 
documents which said hed be given 21 days notice of the renewal. The renewal notice and 
reminder were sent by email. These clearly stated the new premium and advised Mr S that 
he may find cheaper cover elsewhere. 
I understand that Mr Ss email wasnt working, and he didnt receive these notifications. But I 
cant see that he told Tesco this so that it could provide them by other means. And so I cant 
reasonably hold Tesco responsible for this. 
So I think Mr S provided consent for auto-renewal when he first took out his policy. I cant 
see that he told Tesco that he didnt want this. And I think Tesco gave him reasonable 
notification of the pending renewal in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. So I cant 
say that Tesco did anything wrong in this. 
Mr S then cancelled his policy. He was charged for his time on cover, interest for the finance 
and a cancellation fee. Tesco Personal Finance was responsible for the cancellation charge 
of £65. I think this is clearly set out in the policy terms and conditions. And I think its in 
keeping with what other brokers charge. So I cant say that Tesco did anything wrong in 
applying this cancellation charge. 
Mr S said hed been able to find cheaper cover online. But insurers generally offer new 
customers discounts to attract their custom. Our investigator has already explained that 
Tesco Personal Finance is a broker. So if Mr S is unhappy about the policy premium or 
about the charge for his time on cover, he should complain to the underwriter. The 
investigator can help with this if he wishes to.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman