DRN-3410772
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him several packaged bank 
accounts. 
Lloyds charged Mr C monthly fees for the packaged accounts and provided several potential 
benefits in return. He thinks it should refund some of his fees. 
What happened
Mr C has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has sent us information from its
records, which it says shows that:
in 1996, he opened a fee-free account,
in July 2002, it sold him a Select account, which replaced his fee-free account and for 
which it charged a fee,
in August 2004, it sold him a Premier account, which replaced his Select account, 
and for which it charged a higher fee,
in April 2014, it sold him a Platinum account, with an extra Club Lloyds (*) package, 
which replaced the Premier account and for which it charged a lower fee.
I think Lloyds records about this account history are probably reliable, and I have taken 
them to be accurate.
(*) Club Lloyds was an optional package that Lloyds offered to customers with different types 
of account. It provided extra banking benefits such as interest on the account if in credit, and 
non-banking benefits such as cinema tickets or magazine subscriptions. Lloyds charged an 
extra fee for the package, but customers could usually avoid it if they paid more than a 
certain amount into the account each month. Lloyds varied both the fees and the benefits 
from time-to-time. Similarly, at some stages, Mr Cs accounts had further designations such 
as Vantage or Plus. These designations brought some extra benefits, but providing 
customers met certain criteria, Lloyds didnt usually charge fees for them. They are not 
significant for this complaint. So, for simplicity, I have not used them in this decision. 
 
Lloyds has said that Mr C complained about the Premier and Platinum accounts too late for 
us to look into his concerns under the time limits that determine which cases we can 
consider.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Cs complaint. The adjudicator agreed
with Lloyds that we couldnt consider the part of his complaint about the Premier and 
Platinum accounts, which Mr C seems to have accepted. The adjudicator also thought that 
Lloyds had treated Mr C fairly when it sold him the Select account and didnt recommend 
that it should give him any money back.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators findings about the Select account and asked for an
ombudsman to review this part of his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Cs complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr C and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that I accept Lloyds position that we cannot look into the parts 
of Mr Cs complaint about the Premier and Platinum accounts. I have not considered those 
parts of his complaint any further. I have only looked into the way Lloyds sold him the Select 
account.
Both Lloyds and Mr C have told us that it advised him to buy the Select account during a 
meeting at one of its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected
Lloyds to give Mr C a choice to buy the Select account or to keep his fee-free one, tell him 
about the Select accounts cost and benefits and check that it was a reasonable match for 
his needs before it gave its advice. 
By the time Lloyds sold the Select account to Mr C, he had held a fee-free account for over 
five years. I havent seen anything to make me think Lloyds told him he couldnt keep that 
account. So, I am satisfied it allowed him a choice. And there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that Lloyds told Mr C about the monthly fees. 
In July 2002, the Select account provided a mixture of banking and non-banking benefits.
The banking benefits included discounts on some types of loan and lower interest on 
overdrafts than Lloyds usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. The non-banking 
benefits included use of a car breakdown service and extended warranties and purchase 
protection insurance on some products bought through the account. 
Mr C has told us that when Lloyds sold him the Select account he remembers it saying that 
the account would have financial benefits such as lower interest rates (and) preferential 
terms.... I think his recollections provide a fairly close match to the banking benefits of the 
Select account. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds must have told Mr C about them and he seems 
to have been interested in them at the time. I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told him 
about the non-banking benefits. After all, it was trying to sell him the Select account, so it 
was in its own interest to tell him what he could get in return for his monthly fees. 
Along with Mr Cs interest in the banking benefits of the Select account, it also seems to me 
that he may have had a potential need for some of the non-banking benefits. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Lloyds to advise him to buy it. 
Mr C has also told us that Lloyds said buying the Select account would improve his credit 
rating, which he now believes to be wrong. Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting, so I 
cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Mr C. But I can confirm that his current 
belief is correct. The type of account a customer holds gives very little indication about 
his/her credit worthiness and is unlikely to affect a credit rating. It would therefore have been 
wrong of Lloyds to say the opposite. But, Im not convinced that it did. Managing a bank account well (for example, by staying in credit or within agreed overdraft 
limits) may improve a credit score. Given that there was obviously some discussion of credit 
during the meeting, I think its highly likely that Lloyds may well have raised this with Mr C. 
But, as it was true, it would have been a fair thing for Lloyds to say.
Mr C has also told us that he didnt make much active use of the benefits of the Select 
account. I accept this, but as active use cannot easily be predicted in advance, it doesnt 
mean that Lloyds mis-sold the account to him. 
So, in summary, I have only considered the way Lloyds sold the Select account to Mr C, not 
the Premier or Platinum accounts. Im satisfied that Lloyds gave Mr C a choice, told him 
about the fees and benefits and gave reasonable advice. I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold 
the Select account to Mr C. 
(I understand from Lloyds that between roughly August 2002 and August 2004 Mr C held 
two Select accounts at the same time. This meant that he was paying twice for the same 
benefits. Lloyds has accepted that this was an unnecessary duplication of cover. It has told 
us that it has refunded the fees Mr C paid for one of the duplicated accounts and added 
interest. Mr C hasnt said much about this refund and Im not sure if he considers Lloyds 
response was fair. I have not therefore considered it in this decision. This means that Mr C is 
free to discuss it further with Lloyds if he so wishes. However, I cant give him any advice 
about this. Nor can I speculate on how Lloyds may respond or tell if any subsequent 
complaint Mr C may bring to us will fall inside or outside the rules and time limits that 
determine which complaints we can investigate). 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint that Lloyds Bank
PLC mis-sold the Select account to him. I am not going to tell it to refund him any fees.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2022. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman