DRN-2904956
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited declined her overseas credit card transaction. 
She thought theyd used the wrong exchange rate to calculate the amount.
What happened
Mrs W attempted to use her Vanquis credit card to pay an overseas hotel bill, but the 
payment was declined. So, she used her debit card, provided by another bank, to make the 
payment instead.
Mrs W called Vanquis, following her payment attempt. She wanted to understand why it had 
been declined. Vanquis said that the amount that had been requested was £2,600.98. But 
there was only £2,350 available within her account limit. 
Mrs W said that the amount was wrong. Due to the credit card payment being declined, she 
had to use a debit card from another bank to complete the transaction. The amount taken 
using the debit card was £2,171. Mrs W thought that Vanquis had used the wrong exchange 
rate here. She believed that if theyd used the correct rate, the payment would have been 
authorised.
Mrs W also explained that she had previously experienced problems with her Vanquis credit 
card in other countries. She didnt think that her Vanquis credit card was fit for purpose. So, 
she raised a complaint with Vanquis asking them to investigate why the wrong amount had 
been processed and declined.
Vanquis responded to Mrs Ws complaint in a letter. They said that they were satisfied that 
no errors had been made. They said that they couldnt find any evidence that there was an 
issue with Mrs Ws account or card other than there being insufficient funds available.
Mrs W was unhappy with their response. She didnt think that theyd recognised the 
problems here. She said that theyd used the wrong exchange rate and didnt believe that 
theyd fully investigated the issue. Vanquis agreed to look into Mrs Ws complaint further.
Vanquis wrote to Mrs W again to explain their findings. They said that the amount to be 
authorised of £2,600.98 hadnt been set by them. So, they didnt think that theyd made an 
error when the local currency amount had been converted to £GBP.
Mrs W wasnt happy with their response. So, she referred her complaint to this service. She 
also said that one of Vanquis employees had been rude to her during a call. One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint. He didnt think that Vanquis were at fault for the 
payment amount and decline. But he did think that Vanquis should pay compensation to Mrs 
W of £100 to reflect the poor customer service shed received from them
Neither Mrs W or Vanquis were happy with our investigators view here. Both parties have 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 1 June 2021  giving both Mrs W and Vanquis the opportunity to 
respond to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I think its important to understand how credit card transactions are processed by 
recognising the various parties and their role within that process.
A credit card transaction will normally involve five different parties:
The customer  This is the cardholder who presents their card to make a 
payment  Mrs W here.
The merchant  The party receiving the payment. In this case, the hotel.
The merchant acquirer  The organisation that provides the card acceptance 
facilities to the merchant. 
The credit card processor  The scheme provider to which the card is 
affiliated.
The bank  The provider of the credit card account and any credit facility. In 
this case, Vanquis.
Mrs W attempted to use her Vanquis Credit Card to pay a hotel bill outside of the UK. 
Mrs W said that the Hotel staff input the amount into the terminal provided by their 
merchant acquirer. She also said that the amount keyed in to the credit card terminal 
was in local currency. The merchant acquirer then processed the transaction. This 
would result in an electronic request being sent to the credit card processor. 
Vanquis website provides an explanation of how credit card purchases abroad are 
made. This confirms that they will charge a fee of 2.99% of the amount of any non-
sterling transaction. This is referred to in the credit card agreement as Foreign 
Transaction Fee.
It goes on to say that The exchange rate on which this Non-Sterling Transaction Fee 
will be calculated is set by the credit card processor and will be the exchange rate 
on the date the transaction is processed which may be different from the date of the 
actual transaction. So, its important to distinguish here that the conversion from 
local currency to £GBP is not made by Vanquis. Its made by the credit card 
processor. 
Once the credit card processor has converted the currency amount, the payment is 
referred to the Bank  Vanquis in this case  who then authorise the £GBP amount to 
be paid. Vanquis role is to administer the credit card account and provide and 
maintain the credit limit. They will authorise payments made by the card within the 
limit that theyve agreed. 
Mrs W is unhappy as she believes that the exchange rate used to convert the 
currency amount was wrong. But as this wasnt set by Vanquis, I cant reasonably 
hold them responsible for this. This wasnt within their control. 
Vanquis have investigated Mrs Ws complaint. They have confirmed that there is no 
apparent reason for the transaction to be declined other than payment would have 
resulted in her credit limit being exceeded.
However, I also fully appreciate and understand Mrs Ws frustration here. Particularly 
as she successfully completed the transaction using a debit card provided by another 
bank and for a lesser amount. No information has been provided about the debit card 
and the card processor used for that transaction. In any event, the debit card 
transaction and the associated bank arent the subject of this complaint.
So, I have to consider whether the decline of the credit card transaction resulted from 
something that Vanquis did wrong. Theyve provided evidence from their files which 
shows that the transaction amount presented to them for authorisation was 
£2,600.98. I can also see that there were insufficient funds available within Mrs Ws 
credit limit to support this amount. So, I cant reasonably say that Vanquis were at fault for declining the transaction. I dont believe that any other information would 
have been available to them, at the time, to suggest that there was a problem.
Mrs W also said that on one occasion when she spoke to Vanquis, one of their 
employees was rude and appeared disinterested. I asked that Mrs W provided details 
of the times when she spoke to Vanquis. She has provided this service with the dates 
and times of four calls. 
Vanquis have provided recordings of the calls referred to by Mrs W and Ive listened 
to each one. I realise that Mrs W will be disappointed, but I cant find any suggestion, 
within the call recordings, that any employee of Vanquis acted in a rude or 
disinterested way. The recordings suggest that on each occasion, Vanquis were 
trying to help Mrs W in the best way they could. So, I disagree with our investigator 
here. The recordings Ive heard dont lead me to conclude that any Vanquis 
employee had been rude or acted in a disinterested way. So, I cant reasonably 
award any compensation to Mrs W for this aspect of her complaint. If further 
evidence is provided before I reach a final decision, then I can reconsider this aspect.
I do understand that Mrs W will be disappointed but, having fully considered the 
circumstances relating to Mrs Ws complaint, I cant see that Vanquis have done 
something wrong. So, I dont intend to ask them to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Vanquis havent provided any additional information or evidence.
Mrs W did respond and made various additional points. She believes that Vanquis should be 
held accountable for any mistakes made by providers that assist them in providing their 
service. Mrs W also believes that there was an error with the amount presented for payment 
to Vanquis. She does not accept that Vanquis can only be held responsible for their own 
charges and they should be responsible for all charges and conversions. 
I do understand Mrs Ws point of view here, but Im unable to agree with her. Vanquis credit 
card agreement is quite clear in stating that they dont set the exchange rate for a currency 
transaction. For a transaction of this type, Vanquis were not responsible for the exchange 
rate used  it isnt something they had control over. Their role is to provide the credit card, 
with a credit limit and administer Mrs Ws account with them.
Mrs W also points out that she has never seen any evidence of the exchange rate that was 
used for the attempted transaction. The credit card processor normally states that the rates 
they publish (usually on their website) in advance of a transaction posting to a cardholder's 
statement are indicative, since the rates they use for conversion correspond to the date and 
time they process the transaction, as opposed to the actual transaction date. As the 
transaction wasnt completed, this rate wasnt made available to Vanquis and, therefore, Mrs 
W.
Mrs W has raised a question about the contractual relationship between Vanquis and the 
credit card processor. This isnt a matter that Im able to explore. It isnt the role of this 
service to review or comment upon any contractual relationship that Vanquis might have with 
a third party. But it is our role to examine and decide whether Vanquis has been fair and 
reasonable in the manner in which its policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs W. I believe that Vanquis have shown me that they acted correctly and fairly here. In this 
instance, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that they need to do anything to put things right. 
The payment wasnt completed so, ultimately there has been no financial loss here.
Mrs W did make a final point that she has provided this service with full details of the 
transaction that was ultimately completed using her debit card with another bank. I would like 
to thank her for that information. But, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, the debit 
card transaction and the associated bank arent the subject of this complaint. So, it wouldnt 
be fair to make a comparison.
Taking all of this into account, I havent received anything new to persuade me to change my 
mind here. So, my decision here hasnt changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman