DRN-2308699
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the service she received from Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited (AA), when asking for her claim record to be updated.
What happened
Miss P was involved in an accident in January 2019. She reported the accident to her insurer 
but didnt make a claim. AA has explained that its part of Miss Ps underwriters normal 
process to open a claim record and leave it open for six months to allow time for the third 
party to make a claim.
 
In September 2019 Miss P contacted AA to discuss her renewal and discovered that the 
claim record was still open, despite the third party not having made a claim. AA advised it 
would refer to the underwriter to get the record updated. It promised to call Miss P back 
when this had been done. But no call back was made.
Miss P is unhappy with the service she received from AA. She says she needed to make 
numerous phone calls and miss a day of work to resolve this issue. This was because she 
wanted to leave AA but says she couldnt secure cover elsewhere until the claim record was 
updated.
AA upheld Miss Ps complaint. It accepted that some delays did occur and that its agent 
hadnt called Miss P back as promised. It apologised and offered Miss P £30 compensation.
 
Miss P wasnt satisfied with AAs response, so she brought her complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. She agreed that AA had made errors and 
accepted that Miss P had spent unnecessary time communicating with AA. But she said that 
Miss Ps renewal wasnt ultimately affected by the errors. Overall, our investigator thought 
the apology and compensation was a fair and reasonable way to put things right. 
Miss P didnt agree. So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should point out that I am only considering the actions of AA, as Miss Ps insurance 
broker, in terms of the service it provided. AA is not responsible for updating Miss Ps claim 
record, her underwriter is.
Miss P first raised the issue about the open claim record in September 2019. She was told 
AA would contact her underwriter and call her back after the weekend. I can see the AA 
agent added a note to the system to confirm she had contacted the underwriter and that the 
record would be updated. She called Miss P back after the weekend as agreed, and she 
promised she would check the claim record daily and update Miss P when it had been 
properly amended.  
The agent didnt call Miss P back as promised. Miss P contacted AA after a week to chase 
this up and was told it would need to be referred over again as an urgent query, which would 
take 24 hours. She called again the next day and was told the claim record had been 
updated by the underwriter and that this was showing on AAs systems. But she was told it 
may take up to 72 hours for other companies to see this.
Following this, Miss P received confirmation on 4 October 2019 that the record had been 
updated.
Miss P is unhappy that she needed to spend significant time chasing this issue to get it 
resolved. She says she couldnt arrange cover with another provider until the issue was 
sorted out, so she ended up taking the day off work to get the issue resolved. She would like 
AA to reimburse her for this.
AA says there is always some degree of inconvenience when a claim is recorded which will 
usually involve needing to make phone calls or answer correspondence. It says Miss P had 
protected no claims on her policy, so could have easily arranged cover elsewhere. It also 
says that Miss P was advised that the claim record would be updated to no third-party 
claim/notification only, so she had the required information to enable her to answer any 
questions a potential new insurer might ask about her previous claim. 
AA also says the issue was resolved in time for Miss P to arrange another policy, and that 
there was no need for her to take time off work as most call centres in the industry are open 
outside of office hours. AA does accept that there were some errors. But it believes the £30 
it has offered is sufficient to reimburse the cost of the calls Miss P needed to make and to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments put forward by both sides. I accept 
that this would have been a stressful situation for Miss P to find herself in, and I sympathise. 
But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect AA to reimburse Miss P for choosing 
to take a day off work as I cant see that this was necessary. 
While I can appreciate that Miss P might have been worried that the claim record would 
impact her ability to obtain policy elsewhere, I havent seen anything to suggest that it did 
actually prevent her from doing so. And given what AA has said about her having sufficient 
information about the status of the claim to provide a new insurer, I think its unlikely that it 
would have done. I also note that the issue was resolved within a fortnight, and before 
Miss Ps existing policy expired, albeit only by the day before.
I agree that by not calling Miss P back as promised, or chasing the underwriter, AA didnt do 
everything it ought to have done. This meant Miss P needed to spend some additional time 
on the phone chasing things up and that she experienced some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. But taking everything into account, I think AAs apology and offer of 
compensation is a fair way to put things right. My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited has already apologised and made an 
offer to pay Miss P £30 compensation to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited should pay 
Miss P £30 compensation  if it hasnt already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman