DRN-3423974
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Yorkshire Building Society did not allow her to move her matured funds
into a product she wanted them to be transferred into.
What happened
Mrs P had a cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Yorkshire Building Society (YBS),
which the fixed interest rate was due to end on 30 April 2020. Mrs P wrote to YBS on 14
April 2020, to move the funds when they matured into a different product, which was
advertised on their website.
YBS responded to Mrs P on 17 April 2020. They said that the product Mrs P wanted to move
the matured ISA funds into had been withdrawn. Mrs P wrote to YBS on 20 April 2020, as
the product was still showing on their website, so she knew what YBS had said was
incorrect. She again asked YBS to move her ISA funds into the new product upon maturity.
YBS wrote to Mrs P on 1 May 2020. She says they said that she could not transfer funds
from an existing YBS account into the ISA Mrs P wanted to open. Mrs P explained to YBS
that she wouldnt be transferring funds from an existing account with them, as her account
had been closed. Mrs P made a complaint to YBS.
YBS did not uphold the complaint. They confirmed that all new accounts are available to
current members who want to make additional deposits with the Society as well as new
customers. YBS said that the account Mrs P was wanting her funds to transfer into just cant
be funded from existing YBS accounts. They went on to say that the products where funds
cant be transferred from another YBS group account, aim to attract new funds to YBS to
grow their savings book in a sustainable way.
Mrs P brought her complaint to our service. She said she wasnt transferring funds from an
existing account with YBS as her account had been closed. Mrs P said that YBS had
breached their savings pledge, she felt she was being penalised for being an existing
customer, if she was a new customer of YBS then she wouldnt be discriminated against and
she didnt believe YBS were acting in line with the Competition and Markets Authority
(CMA).
Our investigator said that YBS should pay Mrs P £50, as they gave her incorrect information
that the product she wanted the funds to go into when it matured, had been removed, when
in fact it wasnt removed from sale until 4 May 2020.
Our investigator explained that within YBS final response letter it says all new accounts are
available to current members who want to make additional deposits with the society as well
as new customers, therefore, YBS offered both existing and new customers the same
product, but the funds must be received from another provider and not come from money
already held within the YBS group.
Our investigator also said that YBS had been clear about the eligibility of the product Mrs P
wanted to open upon maturity and YBS savings pledge clearly shows that eligibility criteria
must be met, so she didnt believe the savings pledge was misleading. She said the CMAs
reports wouldnt generally be something we would consider when investigating a complaint,
but if Mrs P felt strongly that YBS were operating contrary to competition regulations then
she may wish to consider contacting the Financial Conduct Authority. Mrs P asked for an
Ombudsman to review her complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed its customer in any way.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the
regulator. As our investigator has explained to Mrs P, if she believes that YBS are operating
contrary to competition regulations then she may wish to consider contacting the Financial
Conduct Authority to raise this with them, as its not within the remit of this service to tell YBS
how to run their business procedures.
Mrs P has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I know Mrs P strongly feels that at the time her product matured, she should have been able
to transfer the matured funds into the new product advertised online. So Ive considered
what shes said about her account being closed when her funds matured. Ive asked YBS for
further information about the application and product factsheet to see what these say about if
the account would be closed upon maturity.
Im satisfied here, that YBS are clear what will happen to the account when the product
matures. On page 2 of the product factsheet it says This Fixed Rate ISA will mature into
another Fixed Rate ISA that will be of no greater term than this Fixed Rate ISA. At maturity
and during the first month after maturity, you will be able to withdraw all or part of your
savings and have full access to them without incurring any loss of interest. Thereafter, you
will only be permitted to close your ISA but this will be subject to a number of days loss of
interest on the closing balance. The number of days loss of interest will be no more than the
number of days under the terms of this Fixed Rate ISA. Further partial withdrawals will not
be permitted. Early closure will result in the loss of your tax free status, other than transfers
to another ISA. We will send to you by post full details of the new fixed rate ISA at least 14
days prior to the maturity of this Fixed Rate ISA.
The product factsheet doesnt show that her account would be closed, but instead it would
mature into another fixed rate ISA. As the declaration on Mrs Ps application form states I
agree to: the terms and conditions of the account (Including the ISA terms and conditions)
which are set out in the relevant product factsheet and in your General Terms and
Conditions Booklet. I have a copy of these. As Mrs P has signed the declaration, then Im
satisfied she would have been provided a copy of the relevant product factsheet in thebranch, otherwise she shouldnt have signed the application to say that she agreed to the
terms and conditions.
I can see that YBS did write to Mrs P with the new fixed ISA rate. On this correspondence it
gave her different options that she could take with the matured funds. The letter is clear that
on 1 May 2020 your funds will be moved into the Fixed Rate Cash ISA above. The letter
lets her know that shell have full access to her money between 1 May 2020 and 30 June
2020, but from 1 July 2020 to April 2022 she wouldnt be able to make any withdrawals
without penalty.
The other two options are to choose a different savings account or to close your account.
So I think by an option saying close her account, this reiterates that Mrs Ps account wouldnt
close when the funds matured, unless Mrs P chose for her account to be closed.
Mrs P is very clear that she wanted the funds on maturity to go into the new online product.
But in order to do so, she would need to meet the eligibility of the new product. So Ive
looked at the product factsheet to see if she would be eligible. The product factsheet is very
clear that it is not possible to fund from or transfer an existing Yorkshire Building Society
Group account to this product. I know Mrs P strongly feels that she didnt have an existing
YBS account as her product had matured and she thought it had ended/was closed. But as
Ive already explained, the account didnt close. The interest rate/product had ended on 30
April 2020, but the account itself had not ended or closed.
Ive looked at the transactions of Mrs Ps account from opening. The account has had the
same account number from opening and this account has never closed or ended  it has
been continuous. So Im satisfied that the money Mrs P wanted to transfer into the new
product was from an existing YBS group account, and therefore, she wasnt entitled to
transfer the matured money into the new product. And thats why YBS couldnt act upon her
instructions to transfer the funds into the new product.
I know Mrs P feels that YBS have broken their savings pledge by the criteria theyve set
around the new product. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this because their savings
pledge says that they wont offer new customer only products. So if a product is available to
a new customer, our existing customers can choose it too, subject to eligibility criteria.
So Mrs P was eligible to open the new product, even though she was an existing customer
and she had funds within an existing YBS group account. Its just that she couldnt fund the
new product from her existing YBS savings. So if Mrs P had money with external providers,
then she would have been able to transfer/deposit money from a third party provider into the
new product, subject to any terms and conditions of the account.
The product factsheet is clear that it is not possible to fund from or transfer an existing
Yorkshire Building Society Group account to this product. So by paying money in from
external accounts would have been the only way she could have funded the ISA she wanted
her matured funds to be paid into. The fund fact sheet also shows that external transfers for
any used ISA allowances, including both previous years and current years subscriptions are
permitted.
While I cant agree with Mrs P that YBS has discriminated against her by not following her
instructions for the reasons Ive already given, I am persuaded that YBS let Mrs P down by
telling her incorrect information about the online product being withdrawn, when it was
available until 4 May 2020. YBS have already agreed to the compensation suggested by our
investigator that £50 is a reasonable level of compensation and Mrs P has indicated that she
would accept this for the incorrect information being given, so Im not minded to interfere
with this. So it follows that I intend to ask YBS to pay Mrs P £50 compensation for theincorrect information they told her, but I dont intend to require them to do anything else.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs P said she did not wish to make any further observations. YBS acknowledged 
the provisional decision and offered no further information to be considered for my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Yorkshire Building Society to pay Mrs P £50 
for giving her incorrect information. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons 
given previously. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mrs P £50 for giving her 
incorrect information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman