DRN-1906504
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996 when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Miss S complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1996. She says she wasnt 
aware it had been added to her credit card account. So she concludes it was added to her 
account without her knowledge.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Miss S disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Lloyds Bank made it clear the policy was an optional product. 
Lloyds Bank produced a copy of Miss Ss store card application. I can see there was a 
separate section of the form headed Optional Features. I can see Miss S, or a Lloyds 
Bank adviser ticked the PPI box in this section and entered her personal details on the 
form. I noted she declined other offers on the form, so I think she completed the form 
diligently by only choosing the products she wanted and then signed it to give her consent 
to add PPI to her account. I think the active selection for PPI means Lloyds Bank probably 
made it clear that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and yet she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she may not be able to remember this.
The policy was recommended so Lloyds Bank had to recommend a policy which was 
suitable for Mis Ss financial needs. In this case, I think it was a suitable product for her. I 
say this because she was eligible to buy it, she wasnt affected by the things not covered in 
the policy (the exclusions). And it seems it was affordable for her at the time.
Miss S said she could rely on her parents to pay for her credit card if she couldnt afford 
the repayments. I understand the point she is making. But there was no guarantee she 
could rely on this help at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this made the 
policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
She also told us she could have sold her car. But a car is a depreciating asset and may not 
have covered her outstanding balance at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think 
this made the policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
Lloyds Bank also had to give Miss S enough information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so she could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information about the cost and benefits given to Miss S about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been, however I dont know what other details were explained to 
her in the sales meeting. So as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems it would have been useful for her if something went wrong - 
because she told us she had limited savings, no sick pay and some redundancy pay. I think 
the PPI could have been useful if she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. So even if she 
had been given more detailed information about the cost and benefits, I dont think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.
Lloyds Bank should also have pointed out the exclusions. I dont know how it did this, 
but it does not appear that Miss S was affected by the main exclusions. So - even if 
shed been given a full list of them - I dont think it would have put her off from buying 
the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional, it 
was suitable for her needs and Miss S was probably given enough information to make 
an informed decision. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman