complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background
Mr M bought the policy in 2008 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied for 
the credit card and PPI policy over the internet.
The policy provided cover for life and involuntary unemployment only. It offered to repay 
10% of Mr Ms credit card balance in the event of a successful claim for unemployment. And 
it would repay the outstanding balance, up to £15,000, under the life section of the policy. At 
the time, it cost no more than 56p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. And having done so, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Barclays has given me examples of the pages from the online application it thinks Mr M 
would have completed, and they show he would have been asked to choose if he wanted 
the policy and select from different options on screen, one of which was to decline the PPI. 
Without any other persuasive evidence, I have no reason to doubt that these were the 
screens that Mr M would have seen and completed online. And Mr M only took out life and 
unemployment cover  he didnt take out cover for accident and sickness. So I think its likely 
Mr M would have seen these options when applying for the credit card and that the PPI was 
added as a result of him selecting the cover.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide for himself if it 
was right for him.
DRN-1110754Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And is seems like it could 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M,
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said  including what he has said about not needing 
the policy as he was entitled to good sick pay benefits from his employer. But Mr M didnt 
take out cover for accident and sickness, he only took out the unemployment cover. This 
would suggest that Mr  was aware of his sick pay benefits and therefore made a choice to 
insure himself for unemployment only. And while Ive noted that Mr M did have some savings 
he could have used, by having this policy it would have enabled him to protect those savings 
for another purpose or use them to cover other essential living expenses. So these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont think that the PPI policy was mis-sold  so it follows that Barclays Bank UK PLC does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman