DRN-2605374
The complaint
Ms R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined her home 
insurance claim. Ms R is being represented by a third party in this case, but Ill refer to them 
both collectively as Ms R unless otherwise specified.
What happened
Ms R registered a claim under her home insurance policy with Ageas for damage to 
underground services (pipes) at her property. Before the claim was finalised, Ms R 
proceeded to have the necessary repair work carried out by a contractor of her choice. She 
sent Ageas the invoices for these works to be paid under the claim. 
Ageas said the invoices didnt show the cause of the damage, and for it to confirm cover 
under the policy it needed to know this so it could establish whether an insurable event had 
occurred. It asked for a copy of the contractors report for the work carried out.
Ms R didnt feel a report was needed and disagreed that the onus was on her to prove that 
an insurable event had occurred. She thought Ageas was breaching good faith and fairness 
by not agreeing to pay the claim without this information. Ageas maintained its position on 
the claim and our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ms R disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms R says Ageas shouldve sent out its own contractor to assess the pipework if it needed 
information on the cause of damage. But when a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is 
usually on them to show that an insured event most likely occurred. This obligation is set out 
in the policy terms and conditions Ms R agreed to. And dependant on the circumstances of 
the claim, its not always necessary for an insurer to send out its own contractors to assess 
the damage being claimed for.
But even if Ageas did agree to send someone out in this case, it seems Ms R gave it limited 
time do so. I say this because from what Ive seen, she started the repair work using her own 
contractors within 72 hours of logging her claim as she deemed the matter to be urgent. I 
cant see that Ageas was notified of this work until after it was completed. So this action 
essentially removed any real opportunity for it to send someone to review the likely cause of 
damage before repairs were carried out.
As a result, Ageas asked for evidence that shows the likely cause of the damage being 
claimed for  such as the contractors report. I dont think this is unreasonable in this case. 
And given the fact Ms R had the repair works carried out, I see no suitable reason why shes 
unable to provide this as its common practice for contractors to comment on the likely cause 
of damage when completing work of this nature. 
Ms R hasnt provided Ageas with this report. Instead shes provided invoices that detail the 
work carried out and the associated costs and says it would be very hard for anyone to 
prove how the pipe was damaged without additional excavation and further repairs as a 
result. But I agree with Ageas the invoices on their own arent enough to show an insurable 
event occurred. And while I note Ms Rs opinion about it being difficult for anyone to prove 
how the pipe was damaged, Ive not seen enough supporting evidence to persuade me this 
was the case  and put simply Ageas wasnt given a reasonable opportunity to establish this. 
In the absence of a report to the contrary, and the inability to assess the damage prior to 
repair works being completed, Ageas has concluded on balance of probability, that the pipe 
which was of a lead structure, likely failed due to reaching the end of its life expectancy. This 
would be classed as wear and tear which isnt covered under the policy. So its currently 
declined the claim on that basis.
Based on the information available to it, I dont think this is unreasonable in this case. But if 
Ms R can provide Ageas with evidence that shows the damage wasnt caused by this, but 
rather something else, Id expect it to reconsider the claim in light of the new information. But 
as it currently stands, Im satisfied Ageas has acted fairly based on the information available 
to it at this stage.
Ive considered all of Ms Rs comments, including what shes said about trying to send 
Ageas photos of the damage, but it failed to provide her with a mobile number to send them 
to. I can see from the case notes that it was explained to Ms R that these photos would need 
to be emailed rather than sent through text message as Ageas isnt set up to receive 
pictures via that method, which isnt unusual. But if Ms R does send these photos to Ageas, 
Id expect it to reconsider the claim in light of this evidence if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman