DRN-2236629
The complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement hes been offered by Arch Insurance (UK) Limited for a 
baggage claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T was flying back to the UK. Unfortunately, his baggage was missing when he landed. 
The airline was able to find one of his bags, although it was damaged, but one bag was 
considered irretrievably lost. It paid Mr T compensation of £1230.40  the limit of its liability 
under the Montreal Convention. But the value of Mr Ts lost luggage and replacement bag 
was around £3216. So Mr T made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the remaining 
value of his claim.
Arch considered the claim. Mr T had provided the airlines records about his claim with it. 
The airline had allocated its compensation in its notes - £819.38 for Mr Ts clothing and bag; 
£216.02 for a headset and £195 for the damaged bag itd found. But it hadnt included a 
drone Mr T had in his luggage, which hed paid around £1799 for. Arch calculated the total 
value of Mr Ts baggage and clothing claim was £831, less the policy excess of £35. So it 
considered hed been compensated in full already for these items. 
But as the airline had left the drone out of its settlement, Arch agreed to pay £500 for it in 
line with the policy single article limit.
Mr T wasnt happy with Archs settlement. He didnt think it was fair for Arch to take into 
account the way the airline had internally allocated its compensation. The settlement of the 
claim had left him substantially out of pocket. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator considered that taking into account wear and tear and the single 
article limit, Arch needed to pay Mr T a further £12.16 in settlement of his claim. She felt that 
was its limit of policy liability.
Arch agreed to the investigators recommendation. 
Mr T didnt. He remained of the opinion that it wasnt fair for Arch to take into account the 
airlines breakdown of its settlement. He said the purpose of insurance was to cover total 
loss, rather than separately insuring each item he travelled with. He didnt think the policy 
included any reference to the fact that compensation from other sources had any impact on 
the amount insured or how it would alter the way compensation was calculated. Hed 
claimed for his lost luggage as a whole  not the individual items contained in it. He 
considered the settlement should be considered as if there were no other third-party 
compensation, as long as the settlement didnt result in a double recovery. He didnt think it 
was fair and reasonable to take into account the airlines records which wouldnt usually be 
available to an insurer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Archs agreement to pay a further £12.16 is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
I can understand why Mr T is upset and frustrated by the way his claim has been settled. 
Hes significantly out of pocket as a result of the claim and I appreciate he feels the evidence 
from his airline shouldnt be taken into account in the calculation of the settlement. And I 
accept that his policy doesnt explicitly state that compensation from other sources will be 
taken into account when Arch deals with a claim.
But the general purpose of an insurance policy is to put a policyholder back in the position 
they were in before the loss occurred  in line with the policy terms. In this case, while its 
unusual for an insurer to see an airlines compensation breakdown, I do think this is 
evidence of how the airline allocated payments and what its compensation represented. So I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Arch to take this evidence into account when it 
calculated what settlement Mr T was due.
On that basis, Im satisfied that taking together the airlines contribution for Mr Ts clothing 
and bags and the additional £12.16 Arch has now agreed to pay, Mr T has been indemnified 
for these listed losses by the airline. It seems his replacement bag cost significantly more 
than the bag that was lost, but I wouldnt expect Arch to have to pay for the replacement bag 
 because Mr T didnt own it at the time of the loss. His old bag and its age would be taken 
into account in calculating any liability, because the policy doesnt provide new for old cover. 
This means I think it was fair for Arch to make a deduction for wear and tear based on the 
age of the bag. I can also see that the airlines compensation payment separately 
indemnified Mr T for his headset. So I dont think Arch needs to pay anything more towards 
this item.
It isnt clear why the airline didnt mention the drone in its compensation allocation. But 
based on the evidence, this was the only item that Mr T wasnt compensated for. So it was 
appropriate for Arch to agree to settle this item. Having carefully considered the policy 
schedule, its clear that the single article limit under the baggage section of the policy is 
£500. While I appreciate this is substantially less than Mr T paid for the drone, Im satisfied 
Arch has settled this part of the claim in line with the policy limits.
I appreciate Mr T feels the claim hasnt been settled fairly and reasonably. And that if the 
airline hadnt provided its compensation breakdown, its likely his whole claim wouldve been 
considered, less the airlines payment and the policy excess. Its possible this mightve been 
the case. But I need to think about what actually happened. In this case, Arch was able to 
see how the airline had broken down its payments and what the payments were for. So as 
Ive explained, I think it was reasonable for it to take this evidence into account. And I dont 
think it did anything wrong by doing so.
Overall, I think the fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint is for Arch to pay a further 
£12.16 in settlement of Mr Ts claim, as its agreed to do.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Arch Insurance (UK) Limiteds 
offer to pay Mr T an additional £12.16 is fair and reasonable.
I direct Arch to pay Mr T £12.16 in settlement of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman