DRN-2300175
The complaint
Mr M complains about Santander UK Plc (Santander) in relation to difficulties he 
experienced using his new cards and PINs. He is also unhappy with the telephone banking 
system and does not think it a suitable system for him. 
What happened
Mr M previously held a Santander basic account. This was closed in 2016 after the 
relationship between Mr M and Santander broke down. 
In May 2020, Mr M applied again for a Santander basic account and was accepted. In line 
with the basic account terms, Santander sent Mr M two cards, one ATM card and one debit 
card. Santander also sent the PINs for both cards, by letter. 
Mr M paid a cheque into his account and after it had cleared he tried to withdraw cash. 
He entered the wrong PIN a number of times and his card was automatically locked.
He contacted Santander and explained to the agent what had happened. The agent 
unlocked his card and advised that the PIN he had been attempting must belong to his other 
card, and that the matching PIN for the card Mr M was trying to use would be among Mr Ms 
post. 
Mr M was not happy with this response and complained. He was also unhappy that the 
telephone banking system used voice recognition, and with the customer service he had 
received.
Santander wrote to Mr M in June 2020 rejecting his complaint. Santander stated that the 
cards were issued in line with the account terms. 
Mr M had further calls and contacts with Santander agents and these sometimes became 
heated. 
In mid-June 2020, Santander wrote to Mr M giving him notice that it intended to close his 
accounts in mid-August 2020, due to his communications with staff. 
Mr M was not happy with this and contacted us. He told us that he suffers from a mental 
health condition which sometimes causes him to become agitated. He did not think that 
Santander had taken this into account in its treatment of him.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that Santander had acted in line with the basic account terms and had issued cards and 
PINs as normal. Our investigator found that Mr M had not told Santander about any health 
conditions, so Santander was not able to make any adjustments. She therefore did not think 
that Santander had done anything wrong. 
Mr M did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M has found his experience with Santander frustrating and, in places, 
distressing. 
As my colleague explained, however, our role is to consider whether financial businesses 
have done anything wrong in the particular circumstances, or if they have treated an 
individual fairly and reasonably. If they have, then we can direct the business to take action 
to make amends. 
Our role is not to consider whether systems (such as the telephone banking system) or 
facilities are generally adequate. This would need to be referred to the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
In this case, Mr M applied for a particular type of account. I have reviewed the terms and 
conditions for this account, and it makes clear that it uses an ATM card and a separate top-
up card. 
The cards issued by Santander were the types of card detailed in the terms and conditions 
and I do not think that Santander has done anything wrong in issuing both of these. I 
appreciate that Mr M explained in his calls to Santander that he did not want more than one 
card, but I think this simply means that the type of account Mr M applied for was not suitable 
for him, rather than that Santander was wrong to issue them. 
Santander sent individual PINs for the two cards, and I do not think this is unreasonable. It is 
common practice to issue a new PIN for a new card and then customers are able to change 
their PIN at a later point if they wish to. 
I appreciate that receiving multiple PINs and cards could have been confusing, but I think 
Santander was up front with Mr M about what would be sent, and he then chose to apply for 
that account. Mr M explained during one call that he had not read the documents he 
received fully as he was too busy, but I cannot say that Santander did not provide him with 
sufficient, clear information. 
Mr M complained that Santander had not taken his health condition into account, but I have 
not seen any evidence that Mr M told Santander about any health condition. Consequently, I 
cannot say they have acted unfairly by not making adjustments for him. In the available calls, 
I consider that Santander staff were polite and endeavoured to help Mr M through the 
difficulties he had encountered. 
Overall, I have not seen evidence of failings from Santander and so I agree with my 
colleagues view and do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. I realise this decision will be 
disappointing to Mr M but I hope it makes clear the reasons I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and do not ask Santander 
UK Plc to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman