DRN-4022393
The complaint
Ms F complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined to cover her 
claim for her dogs treatment. 
What happened
Ms F has insurance for her dog with Red Sands. Her policy started on 14 July 2022. The 
policy has a 14-day waiting period, so it doesnt cover any illness that starts within the first 
14 days of cover. And it doesnt cover pre-existing conditions or any claims for retained 
testes. The policy says that Red Sands consider a condition to be pre-existing if your pet 
showed any signs or symptoms of it before your cover start date, whether they needed 
treatment or not.
On 31 August 2022 Ms Fs dog had surgery to remove a retained testicle which tests had 
shown was cancerous. The dogs other testicle was removed at the same time.
She submitted a claim to Red Sands for the cost of her dogs treatment and surgery. This 
was initially declined as Red Sands said they didnt cover claims for retained testicles. Ms F 
raised a complaint and her claim was reassessed.
As part of their reassessment of the claim Red Sands considered the dogs clinical records. 
These showed he was first seen by an emergency vet on 12 July 2022 as Ms F said he 
seemed unwell. She said the dog had been lethargic and had diarrhoea and she thought he 
had heatstroke. X-rays were taken which showed an abdominal mass, but Ms F says she 
was told this was a bladder stone. She was advised to register with a vets practice near to 
her home.
The dog was seen at a local vets surgery on 18 July 2022. Ms F reported that the dog had 
been hiding away since 14 July 2022. The diarrhoea and lethargy the dog had first been 
taken to the vet about, were noted to have resolved. Several possible causes for the mass 
seen on the x-rays were noted, including a cryptorchid (retained) testicle or testicular cancer. 
On 29 July 2022 the original x-rays were received, and further x-rays were recommended. 
Ms F was advised that if the mass was still present an abdominal scan was needed, as the 
vet was concerned her dog could have a testicular tumour, due to his age and having a 
retained testicle. 
The dog had further x-rays on 1 August 2022 which confirmed a lemon sized mass in his 
abdomen. This was confirmed by ultrasound and it was thought this was likely to be the 
retained testicle, which was now neoplastic (cancerous). On 4 August 2022 the cytology 
results confirmed a Sertoli cell tumour. Ms F was seen on 8 August 2022, advised of what 
had been found and agreed to both of her dogs testicles being removed. 
Having reviewed the dogs clinical records Reds Sands wrote to Ms F on 22 September 
2022 once again advising her that her policy doesnt cover retained testes. But in addition, 
they said that the policy doesnt cover any pre-existing conditions, and the first signs or 
symptoms of her dogs condition were seen before the policy started on 14 July 2022, so the 
condition was pre-existing and not covered by her policy.
Ms F responded to this letter telling Red Sands that the vets notes werent accurate, and her 
dogs condition wasnt diagnosed until 1 August 2022. Red Sands treated Ms Fs response 
as a complaint. They told Ms F theyd need further information from her vet if they were 
going to review her claim, but warned her that even with further information, there was no 
guarantee theyd change their minds.
Red Sands issued their final response to Ms Fs complaint on 21 October 2022. In this they 
said that her policy documents made it clear that they didnt cover claims for retained testes. 
As she hadnt contacted them to discuss or dispute this, before she made a claim, theyd 
taken this as confirmation that she accepted and understood the cover they provided. 
The exclusion in relation to retained testes was the main reason her claim had been 
declined. But Red Sands said that the condition being pre-existing was a secondary reason. 
Ms F had disputed the accuracy of her dogs clinical records, but they said they had to 
accept these as being accurate. And if Ms F wanted to challenge what was recorded in her 
dogs records, shed need to take this up with the vets. So her complaint wasnt upheld.
Ms F then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold 
the complaint. She said the terms and conditions of Ms Fs policy made it clear that retained 
testes werent covered. She considered what Ms F had said about her policy schedule 
saying there were no exclusions. But she said not covering retained testes was a general 
exclusion applying to all policies. And Ms Fs policy schedule would have listed any specific 
exclusions applied to his policy, based on the information shed provided when she took out 
her cover. 
Our investigator also thought it was fair for Red Sands to say the dogs condition was pre-
existing, as his clinical records showed the abdominal x-rays taken on 13 July 2022, showed 
a cryptorchid testicle. And on 4 August 2022 Ms Fs vet said it was highly likely that the 
retained testicle was now neoplastic. 
Our investigator also said that Ms Fs dog started receiving treatment for a retained 
neoplastic testicle on18 July 2022. And as this was within the 14-day waiting period it wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
In response to our investigators opinion Ms F has told us that shes unhappy with the advice 
provided by her vet. She thinks the vet should have done further investigations before saying 
her dog had cancer. She says she was initially told her dog had a bladder stone, and she 
wasnt told the dog had a cancerous mass. She was surprised to find reference to testicular 
cancer when she received the records from the emergency vet on 13 July 2022, as this 
wasnt mentioned during the consultation. Shes complained to the vets about the records 
being changed.
She says when she took out the policy, she answered all the questions she was asked 
honestly. She doesnt understand why Red Sands dont cover retained testes. She says she 
wasnt told this when she took out the policy. And she claimed for the treatment of her dogs 
testicular cancer, not a retained testicle.
She doesnt accept that her dog had a pre-existing condition, or one that first showed signs 
or symptoms within the 14-day waiting period, as she wasnt given a diagnosis until August 
2022, when the waiting period had passed.
Finally, she doesnt think its fair that after she made her claim Red Sands added an 
exclusion to her policy in respect of treatment for cancer.The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im aware that Ms F is unhappy with the vets who treated her dog and has raised 
complaints about them, I cant consider those complaints, as theyre outside our jurisdiction. 
Reds Sands have considered her claim based on the clinical records the vets have provided. 
This is what Id expect them to do. And they did tell Ms F theyd have to consider the records 
as accurate, and if she wanted to challenge the records, shed need to take this up with the 
vets.
I understand that shes done this, and if the vets accept her dogs records arent accurate, 
shell need to contact Red Sands to see if theyre prepared to review her claim.
Ms F has told us why her dogs testicles hadnt been removed before August 2022. That was 
her decision based on the advice she says she was given when the dog was younger. Red 
Sands havent commented on that decision, they simply declined the claim on the basis that 
the policy doesnt cover claims for retained testes. This is a general policy exclusion and its 
clearly set out in Ms Fs policy booklet, under the heading Conditions we dont cover.
As its a general exclusion its not listed on Ms Fs policy schedule, under the heading,  
Exclusions. This says None, as there were no specific exclusions added to the policy 
when it was taken out, based on the information shed provided about her dog.
Ms F has said she doesnt understand why Red Sands dont cover retained testes. Its one 
of a number of conditions they dont cover. Its for individual insurers to decide what 
conditions theyre prepared to cover. And I just have to be satisfied that Ms F was notified of 
any conditions that werent covered. The general policy exclusions, including that theres no 
cover for retained testes, are set out clearly in Ms Fs policy documentation. And if she 
wasnt happy with this, she had the opportunity to speak to Red Sands and if necessary, 
seek alternative cover.
As retained testes arent covered and Ms F was advised of this, I think Red Sands were 
entitled to decline the claim. I appreciate that her dog needed surgery due to cancer in the 
retained testicle, but based on the clinical records, this is directly related to the testicle being 
retained.
Even if the policy didnt exclude cover for retained testes, Ms Fs dog was first seen by a vet 
on 12 July 2022, two days before her cover started. She says she was told her dog had a 
bladder stone, and the vet later added testicular cancer to the records. But regardless of 
what she was told about the diagnosis, x-rays taken on this date showed an abdominal 
mass, which was later confirmed to be the cancerous retained testicle. 
The policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It says, We consider a condition to be pre-
existing if your pet showed any signs or symptoms of it before your cover start date, whether 
they needed treatment previously or not.
We dont consider it unreasonable for insurers to say they wont cover something thats 
already present. Theyre entitled to decide what risks they want to cover. But this is a 
significant term, so it needs to be made clear to the consumer. In this case Ms Fs policy 
schedule states that pre-existing conditions arent covered and provides the definition Ive 
quoted above. So Im satisfied the policy wording is clear on this point.But I also need to consider whether Ms F knew there was something wrong with her dog, 
which shed need to make a claim for when she took out his policy. And I think the answer in 
this case has to be yes, she did. 
Her dog had been seen by an emergency vet on 12 July 2022 and x-rays showed an 
abdominal mass. The vets notes say that Ms F told her the dog had an undescended 
testicle and she was advised that the vet suspected the had either a testicular tumour, or a 
bladder stone. And the vet told her that undescended testicles very often become 
cancerous.
I know that Ms F disputes whats recorded in her dogs records, but these havent been 
changed. So I think its reasonable for Red Sands to rely on the dogs clinical records and 
say, based on these, that her dogs condition was pre-existing. 
When Ms F registered with a local vet on 18 July 2022, she said the dog had been hiding 
away and not wanting attention from 14 July 2022. And shed looked up possible causes of 
an abdominal mass, which included testicular cancer. So based on this, and the clinical 
records Im not persuaded that she didnt know his dog was likely to require treatment for 
testicular cancer until the diagnosis was confirmed on 4 August 2022. 
So Im persuaded that Red Sands acted reasonably when they declined Ms Fs claim and 
Im not going to ask them to do anything.
Ms F has also told us shes unhappy that Red Sands have added an exclusion to her policy 
in respect of any treatment for cancer. As she hasnt raised this with Red Sands its not an 
issue I can address. If Ms F wishes to pursue this, shell need to contact Red Sands.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint about 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman