DRN-2751494
The complaint
Mr M complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited have made an error when reporting 
an accident under his car insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Advantage are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr Ms car was unfortunately involved in an accident on 8 December 2017 while it was 
parked on the street. Mr M was told the claim was registered as a non-fault. In August 2020 
he said he recently became aware that Advantage had recorded the claim as a fault claim on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). To resolve his complaint, he asked for 
Advantage to:
Provide a detailed explanation for the error
Asked what action had been taken against the person responsible for the error
Asked what actions Advantage had taken to prevent this from happening again
Wanted CUE updated immediately to reflect the correct information
And he asked for compensation for his time spent dealing with the clear service 
failure by Advantage
CUE is a database insurers use to record incidents and claims  and typically this 
information will show the status of claims, whether theyre recorded as fault or non-fault, 
amongst other pieces of information.  
Advantage replied to Mr Ms complaint. They explained although the incident wasnt his fault, 
theyve remained responsible for the costs as theyve not made a recovery from the other 
insurer. They said they were aware theres been significant delays in Mr Ms claims journey 
so wont be commenting on that further. They said the recovery is ongoing, and once theyve 
done that the claim will be closed as non-fault and his no claims discount wouldnt be 
affected  theyd send a letter to confirm this. Advantage said they appreciated Mr M has 
asked for compensation and action against the person who recorded things incorrectly  but 
thats not possible because the claim is correctly recorded on CUE at the moment.
 
Mr M then contacted us and asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said she didnt think 
Advantage had done anything wrong in the way they recorded information on CUE. Because 
of that she didnt ask them to do anything further. 
Mr M didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. Because of 
that its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M raised a separate complaint which was dealt with under a different reference which 
addressed how long itd taken Advantage to settle his claim. What he says Advantage have 
recorded on CUE could only have happened after he provided them with information to 
progress his claim. From the information I have, although the incident was 8 December 
2017, he didnt give Advantage information to progress matters until 6 February 2020.
 
So, Ive looked at whats happened since then, regarding Mr Ms concerns about the 
information on CUE. I would like to add though, if I think CUE have recorded the information 
correctly since they processed his claim after 6 February 2020, then I wont be telling them 
to take any action.
After Mr M got in touch on 6 February 2020 Advantage were able to settle Mr Ms claim and 
paid him out a few days after this. So, I dont think theyve caused any unreasonable delay in 
settling his claim from when he got back in touch, to when they settled his claim.
Mr Ms main concerns though are about how the information is recorded on CUE, as he 
believes its been done incorrectly and thats stopping him from getting competitive 
insurance. So, Ive looked at what the information shows.
The claim is shown as outstanding, as a result of an accident and NCD allowed  NCD 
stands for no claims discount. By showing it as allowed this is Advantage saying the claim 
is not Mr Ms fault. In addition, the claim is outstanding as all costs have yet to be recovered 
 and its correct its showing as an accident.
With that in mind, I cant say Advantage have recorded information incorrectly on CUE as 
they have recorded it as a non-fault claim. So, I wont be asking them to take any of the 
actions Mr M has mentioned.
I note from the file there has been issues raised by Mr M about how long the recovery of the 
funds is taking, and that he wasnt told this process had been started. But those are separate 
issues to this complaint, so Ive not considered them in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman