DRN-3314441
The complaint
Mr D complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
AJH Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to AJH.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to AJH 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. A client agreement was signed with 
AJH on 13 December 2017 and a fact-find completed the same day. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr D was 38 years old, living with his partner aged 35. They had an 11-year-old 
dependent child. 
They lived in a home valued at approximately £110,000, which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £65,000. The mortgage had 24 years left to run. 
Mr Ds partner (Ms D) also worked and was contributing to a public sector pension of 
her own. Together they had a joint income of over £3000 (net) per month and a 
disposable income of around £1200 per month, after expenses. They had savings 
comprising over £21,000 mainly in cash accounts and individual savings accounts 
(ISAs).
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds BSPS was approximately 
£218,399 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. AJH said Mr D wanted to 
retire early if possible.
Mr D and Ms D were in good health. 
AJH commissioned a transfer analysis in January 2018 and set out its advice in a suitability 
letter on 12 February 2018. It advised him to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in 
a personal pension plan. AJH said this would allow Mr D to achieve his objectives.
Mr D accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal pension. In 2021 Mr D 
complained to AJH about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of 
the BSPS. In response, AJH said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr D had at the time. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered with great care, the final 
response from AJH, and in particular, all the points made in a comprehensive document 
from AJHs legal advisers. But whilst Ive noted all the points made, Ive rightly focussed on 
what I think to be the relevant aspects and points in this case. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AJH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, AJH should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ds best interests. I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
AJH referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is essentially the 
average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. It is 
therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal 
pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a transfer-out to become 
financially viable. As well as considering the critical yield, Ive looked at other financial 
projections too. 
Ive also noted that, at the time of the advice, AJH first considered one platform for the 
personal pension it was advising Mr D to transfer to, but then later considered another one. 
Both were large and well-known providers and I dont think there was a demonstrable 
difference between the two. When considering the first platform, AJH said the critical yield 
required to match the benefits of the proposed BSPS at the age of 65 was 5.3% if he took a 
full pension and 4.6% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. At the age of 57 these 
figures were 6.1% and 5.2% respectively.
However, Ive noted that these comparisons were made against buying a single-life annuity. 
Given Mr D was at the time unmarried, I think its reasonable that these comparisons were 
included. But Mr D and Ms D had a child together and the evidence Ive seen implies a long-
term partnership between them. Im also aware that Mr D and Ms D did go on to marry, in 
2019, and I see this issue did come up during the discussions with the adviser. The 
relevance of this is that comparisons with a joint-life annuity were higher  the critical yield 
figures at 65 were 5.9% and 5.3% respectively. At 57, they were higher still: 6.9% and 6%. 
At several points in the discussion documents  and later in AJHs final responses - much 
mention is made of Mr Ds apparent wish to retire at 57. So I think all these critical yield 
figures should have raised a concern from AJH in that improving upon these growth rates, 
year-on-year, would be unlikely.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, AJH also made mention of the PPF. It said the critical 
yield to match the benefits available at age 65 was 4.8% per year if Mr D took a pension 
under the reduced terms of the PPF and 4.4% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash 
element and a further reduced pension. For the age of 57, the yields were 6.1% and 5.6% 
respectively under the PPF. However, no critical yields were provided in relation to a joint-life 
annuity. So, overall I think there were certain limitations here to Mr D being given enough 
information with which to make an informed choice. 
Nonetheless, AJH said matching the critical yield was potentially achievable in Mr Ds case 
although it didnt say which one it was targeting.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.6% per year for 26 years to retirement (to age 65). For age 57, the discount rate was 4.4%. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
In my view, these figures show that improving upon the critical yields would be unlikely. 
AJHs advice to transfer away from the BSPS to a personal pension was largely based on its 
view that Mr D could grow his pension outside the DB scheme, in the recommended plan, to 
an extent that made transferring worthwhile. But at the time, AJH assessed Mr Ds attitude to 
risk (ATR) firstly as high medium although this was later reduced to low medium. 
AJH therefore needed to consider all these issues together with the loss of guarantees and 
benefits transferring to a personal pension would incur. Its also important to bear in mind the 
additional costs and charges associated with a personal pension and that these would 
effectively reduce the growth rate further. And with all this in mind, I think its reasonable to 
say that a maximum potential growth rate in these circumstances could be assumed as 
being around 4 to 4.5%. 
There would be little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees and benefits available to him 
through this scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a personal pension. Here, 
the discount rate, the regulators lower-end mid-projection rate and the figures Ive used 
above myself were all materially below the relevant critical yield figures at 65 and 57. 
So, in my view, there was simply no reliable evidence from AJH here that Mr Ds transferred 
funds could confidently exceed the critical yield rates to an extent that supported the advice 
to transfer away from a DB scheme. Even small differences in projected growth rates can 
have a substantial effect over time, so I think these figures show Mr D would most likely 
receive lower pension benefits in the longer-term by transferring to a personal pension. I 
think that would also be the case even if Mr D moved with his existing scheme to the PPF.
Of course, AJHs recommendation was evidently supported by other reasons to transfer 
away. Ive therefore thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons the transfer was based on
In its suitability letter AJH recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it 
said were Mr Ds objectives. In addition to potentially matching the critical yield, which Ive 
dealt with above, it listed the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer 
away:
Mr D could take benefits at 57 and could draw his desired retirement income until 
beyond his life expectancy which was 87 years
There would be more flexible access to the pension and more flexible death benefits
Stability of the scheme was a concern
So, it seems that AJH also recommended the transfer for the flexibility and control it offered 
to Mr D. I have therefore considered all of these issues in turn. 
Drawing his desired income until beyond his life expectancy 
AJH said Mr D wanted to have around £1,300 per month in his retirement. However, 
retirement for Mr D, aged 38 years old, was a long time off. And so I think AJH should have started from the position that this could be no more than an educated guess at that point in 
time. I think its fair to point out that in reality both he and Ms D were in mid-career and they 
had many years before them where their family situation would evolve and their priorities 
and challenges could change. 
So, AJHs job here was to provide realistic advice with this in mind which was in Mr Ds best 
interests. And basing a recommendation to irreversibly leave his DB pension, on retirement 
aspirations that were so far off was, in my view, a poor start. 
Ive noted that AJH provided a range of scenarios whereby Mr Ds transferred-out funds 
could last him well into retirement. Specifically it said hed be able to draw £1,300 per month 
to beyond his life expectancy age. But this simply wasnt using like-for-like comparisons 
with the BSPS2. So, when AJH said that when taking your benefits at age 57, based on 
your desired income of £1,300, your fund will exceed your life expectancy of 87 this was 
based on a growth rate which I dont believe was reasonable to use in the circumstances 
because it was too high. In reality Mr Ds funds, if transferred, could have been depleted 
sooner, particularly if returns were poor. But more so, by transferring out, Mr D was also 
giving up substantial guarantees and benefits associated with the DB scheme. 
Flexibility of a personal pension
In its suitability letter, AJH referred to Mr D being able to access the maximum tax-free cash 
via a personal pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a 
personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and 
benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But AJH should have been telling 
Mr D at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, 
potentially from the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his 
later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr D faced, including opting for the 
BSPS2. Again, I also come back to Mr Ds age at the time and the fact that these 
assumptions about what Mr D would or wouldnt need when he retired, were effectively a 
best guess.
Even if I were to accept £1,300 per month was roughly what Mr D needed to fund a 
retirement  which at best was some two decades away  Ive seen nothing that shows the 
BSPS2 wouldnt have helped meet these needs anyway. In its transfer analysis AJH said 
that Mr Ds estimated annual pension upon his NRA was £8,834 per year under BSPS2. But 
I cant see that AJH identified and promoted the additional income and flexibility Mr D would 
enjoy at retirement because he had also recently joined his employers new defined 
contribution (DC) scheme. 
So, even if he did retire at the comparatively young age of 57, Mr D (and also his employer) 
would have been making contributions to this second pension for around twenty years. This 
means he could have accessed this second pension as he saw fit or when he wanted to 
retire and it would have complemented his existing BSPS2 scheme. In my view, he would 
have been in a good position: the DB pension (BSPS2) was guaranteed and index linked; 
and the DC pension had the added flexibility were his circumstances to change. I think this 
fitted in very well with Mr Ds likely financial needs going forward.
I therefore think Mr Ds circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring from a DB 
scheme in this case, such as BSPS2, and drawing this pension in the way it was originally 
intended. So, I think AJHs advice should have reflected this.Death benefits 
AJH says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr D died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr D. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think AJH explored to what 
extent Mr D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Ive noted that at the time Mr D was unmarried. But there was clearly a discussion about this 
as its referred to in documents Ive seen from the advice session. We also know Mr D did 
marry the following year. I therefore think this is relevant to the way the significant death 
benefits in BSPS2 ought to have been viewed.
Whilst it could be alleged that this is using the benefit of hindsight, what was known at the 
time is that Mr D and Ms D had a dependent child. The facts also strongly imply theirs was a 
long-term relationship and so, at the ages of 38 and 35, I think marriage was something that 
ought to have been clarified more by the adviser. If married, this made the death benefits in 
BSPS2 very relevant to their situation. 
In this context, I think the likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme (BSPS2) 
were underplayed. Mr Ds child already qualified for certain benefits under the BSPS2 and 
as they were only 11 years old, this benefit was relatively long lasting as at the point of the 
advice. But the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Ms D if 
she and Mr D married and he then predeceased her. I dont think AJH made the value of this 
benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon 
Mr Ds passing, particularly if he lived a long life. So I dont think the advice should have 
implied Ms D and / or their child would benefit more from a personal pension. Furthermore, it 
doesnt appear that AJH took into account the fact that Mr D could have nominated Ms D as 
the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr D had already 
ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I see AJH itself has later said he had very little life cover. Its likely this area was discussed in 
this case as it does look like some quotes were obtained. However, it looks to me as if some 
of these were essentially quotes based on the transfer value of Mr Ds full pension benefits 
and assumed that he could pass away on day one following the transfer. Accordingly, they 
were most likely very expensive and somewhat unrealistic for Mr D. At 38 years old and 
apparently healthy, term life insurance may have been a much more affordable product if 
he really did want to leave a legacy for his loved ones. This would have been a good 
alternative to transferring to a personal pension just for the supposed death benefits.
Im therefore clear that in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a 
transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of the valuable retirement benefits 
Mr D would enjoy through the BSPS2.  
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme Ive seen no evidence that Mr D had the capacity or desire to manage his own pension 
affairs. The evidence here suggests quite strongly that he was a relatively inexperienced 
investor whos only exposure to money market investments was a high street stock and 
shares ISA with pre-selected stocks. Mr D told us he played no active part in the investment 
strategy and at the time of the advice there was under £2,000 in the ISA, a small percentage 
of his overall savings. AJHs implication that Mr D might have wanted to be actively involved 
in a personal pensions investments after the transfer therefore lacks evidence.
However, I do accept that its clear that Mr D, like many employees of his company, was 
concerned about his pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its 
plans for the scheme and AJH said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and AJH said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr D was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was AJHs obligation to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Ds concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AJH should 
have reassured Mr D that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr D through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely 
to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to AJHs 
recommendation to Mr D to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But AJH 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr D was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think AJH ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties in February 2018 that BSPS2 was going ahead. Mr D still 
had many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr D would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, although not yet married, I think he would have wanted to at least consider a wifes 
pension and that it would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would 
be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr D chose to do so). I say this 
because of the particular relationship Mr D was in at the time. That he and Ms D also had a 
child was another factor, as the child may have been able to draw benefits from the scheme 
under certain circumstances. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think AJH should have advised Mr D to opt into the BSPS2. And given the 
dates Ive set out above, I think there was plenty of time for AJH to do this within the 
deadline. AJH said in its final response to our Service that the deadline was extended again, 
to 16 February 2018 due to high demand from pension members  and we know it had been 
discussing these matters with Mr D since late 2017. 
I have considered whether Mr D would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. I 
accept that AJH disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr D, and provided him with a 
certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr D to transfer out, and I think Mr D 
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against AJHs advice. I say this because of what Ive said about Mr Ds inexperience; and 
this pension also accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at that time. So, if AJH 
had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if AJH had explained Mr D was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think AJH should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for AJHs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, AJH should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mr D has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
So I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. 
For clarity, Mr D has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
AJH may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date AJH receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AJH to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I have also considered the impact on Mr D of the unsuitable advice and transfer. For this I 
direct AJH to additionally pay Mr D the sum of £300 for the stress and anxiety caused by this 
unsuitable transfer. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AJH to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct AJH 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
AJH Financial Services Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AJH 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
AJH Financial Services Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman