DRN-2871144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T asked this service to reopen the complaint they made in 2015 about the sale 
of their lifetime mortgage with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. The complaint was that the 
mortgage had been mis-sold; including them not having been made aware that an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would be payable if the mortgage was repaid in certain 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T were also unhappy in 2019 that they wouldnt be allowed to transfer the entire 
amount of their existing mortgage to a new property if they chose to move; theyd have to 
pay some of the mortgage back. They say they werent told about this in 2010 when they 
took out the mortgage. They also referenced Avivas comments accompanying the 2019 
statement which said it might not be able to transfer a mortgage to a new property if that 
property wasnt acceptable to it. They asked why they werent told about these changes to 
the lending criteria when they were made.  
Mr and Mrs T also raised concerns about some information they found when reviewing the 
paperwork they held for their mortgage. They found some information about a different Aviva 
customer and were concerned about the possibility their details had been sent to someone 
else. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2010. The mortgage offer from the 
time detailed, under the section titled What happens if you dont want this mortgage 
anymore?:
You are able to move home and take your lifetime mortgage with you, subject to your new 
property meeting our lending conditions at the time.
The offer then directed Mr and Mrs T to the mortgage terms and conditions. The relevant 
section says:
6. If you move home
During the Term of your Lifetime Mortgage, you may wish to move home without repaying 
your Lifetime Mortgage. This Section sets out what happens if you want to do this.
6.3 If the Valuer recommends your New Home as suitable security for a Lifetime 
Mortgage and you have kept to the terms of your Lifetime Mortgage Offer and these 
Conditions, we will compare the value of the Property with the value of your New Home and 
proceed as follows:
If the value of your New Home is lower than the value of the Property:
a. You may have to repay part of your Lifetime Mortgage. This will depend on the Total 
Amount You Owe at that time and the amount you would be entitled to borrow if you 
were applying for a new Lifetime Mortgage at that time. If you do have to repay part 
of your Lifetime Mortgage, you will not have to pay us an Early Repayment Charge.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs T moved home. Subsequently they made a complaint about the 
mortgage having been mis-sold, including concern about the potential ERC.  This complaint 
was considered by both Aviva and this service  an ombudsman issued a final decision in 
2015.
Mr and Mrs T raised their complaint (about the mortgage having been mis-sold) again in 
2019. They also added in concerns about the information theyd been given about moving 
home and the information about another mortgage theyd been sent by mistake. 
In relation to the complaint about the partial redemption that would be needed for the 
mortgage to be moved to the new property Mr and Mrs T were considering moving to, Aviva 
said that a partial repayment to the mortgage might be due if the new property value was 
lower than the originals. It explained that when Mrs T had initially called, it had worked out 
how much needed to be repaid based on the value Mrs T had given it in a call  the 
mortgage amount could only be 40% of the property value. This meant the lending had to 
reduce from approximately £116,000 to £110,000. 
However, subsequently, Aviva had made Mr and Mrs T aware that there were new 
percentages allowed for lending and so they could move their mortgage to a property with a 
42% loan to value. This would mean they only had to reduce the lending by around £600 as 
at 22 August 2019. It would be able to provide Mr and Mrs T with more information if they 
provided the postcode of a property they wanted to buy. It said in relation to Mr and Mrs T 
being sent documentation that wasnt theirs and letters being sent out late, these were not 
the standards it expected, and it would deal with these issues internally with the personnel 
involved. Aviva offered Mr and Mrs T £100 to apologise for the service issues. 
Aviva declined to reconsider the complaint about the mis-selling of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators considered whether Mr and Mrs Ts complaint was one we could, 
and should, consider. He concluded that the complaint about the mis-sale, including the fact 
that an ERC would be incurred when the mortgage was partially or fully repaid, had already 
been considered by this service and so we wouldnt look at it again. He was, however, 
satisfied that we could look into the matter of them potentially transferring the mortgage to a 
new property and the concerns about Mr and Mrs T having received information about 
another customers mortgage.
Both parties accepted the investigators conclusions. 
The investigator then considered the remaining aspects of the complaint. He was satisfied 
that Aviva had acted according to the mortgage conditions when it had told Mr and Mrs T 
they would need to reduce the amount of their mortgage. In addition, he pointed out that this 
may well be to Mr and Mrs Ts advantage as they would be accruing interest on a lower 
balance going forward. He also explained that he understood that Mr and Mrs T receiving 
another consumers information would be concerning. However, as it was not their 
information that was compromised, the complaint was rightfully that of the other consumer. 
As such, he had asked, and had it confirmed by Aviva, that Mr and Mrs Ts details had not 
been sent out to any other consumer. Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
investigated further. They said the member of Avivas staff who dealt with the administrative 
complaint was under the impression theyd taken out the mortgage through an independent 
third party, rather than Aviva as they did. In addition, they highlighted that receiving another 
persons statement was a breach of data protection regulations and should be dealt with as 
such, rather than being brushed aside because their details hadnt been sent out to 
someone else.  Mr and Mrs T also commented that as they now understood any money they 
would have to pay to Aviva was coming off the mortgage balance (rather than being an 
ERC), they would be moving forward with moving home.
Our investigator asked for clarity about Mr and Mrs Ts response  that they no longer 
wished to pursue the complaint about the reduction in the amount of mortgage. They 
confirmed that they only wanted the matter of the breach of data protection regulations to be 
considered by an ombudsman. They provided a copy of an annual mortgage statement from 
2014 that related to a mortgage held by customers of Aviva other than themselves. It was 
determined that this aspect of the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
For completeness before I look into the merits of the complaint, I would like to confirm that I 
am in agreement that this service shouldnt reconsider the issues Mr and Mrs T complained 
about, and which were considered by another ombudsman, in 2015.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It would appear there was some confusion about the payment Aviva wanted Mr and Mrs T to 
make if they were to move to a property with a lower value. This confusion has now been 
cleared up and Mr and Mrs T dont want to pursue that part of their complaint. As such, I 
wont comment on it and will restrict myself to considering the concerns about Mr and Mrs T 
being sent a statement for a mortgage other than their own.
I can entirely understand Mr and Mrs Ts concern that they received a statement for 
someone elses mortgage, as this could mean that their data is not adequately protected. 
However, our investigator is correct in saying that it would be the consumers whose data 
was breached that would have the right to complain about the event. It would also be most 
appropriate for the Information Commissioners Office to deal with such a complaint, rather 
than this service.
However, what I would explain to Mr and Mrs T is that the current regulations would require 
Aviva to log any data breaches with the relevant supervisory authority (in this case likely the 
Information Commissioners Office). In addition, if it considered the breach had a high risk of 
adversely affecting the consumers Mr and Mrs T had seen information about, Aviva was 
required to inform those customers that there had been a breach. As such, I think 
Mr and Mrs Ts concerns about the other parties rights in relation to the matter, can 
reasonably be allayed, as the regulations will have taken care of those issues. 
This would also mean that had there been any data breach of Mr and Mrs Ts information, 
they would have been made aware of it. Whilst it cant be guaranteed that human error wont 
cause something to go wrong and information to be incorrectly released about their 
mortgage in the future, there are safeguards in place to prevent such things happening. Aviva offered Mr and Mrs T £100 for the administrative issues theyd encountered. I consider 
that is a reasonable sum in the circumstances. As such, if Mr and Mrs T want to accept that 
sum, they should contact Aviva directly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman