DRN-4014592
The complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) provided him with a loan when 
he couldnt afford the repayments on it.
What happened
Mr T entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in December 2015 for a car.
He borrowed around £6,000 to be repaid over 60 months. The total amount repayable with 
interest was around £14,000 and the monthly repayments were around £230.
Mr T has said Moneybarn didnt do enough to make sure he could afford the repayments on
the loan. He said all it asked him for was identification and payslips. He said if it had asked
him about his expenditure or looked at his credit file it would have seen he had defaults and
late payments, would have seen he was in arrears with several lenders and would
have seen he had recently failed an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
Mr T complained to Moneybarn in November 2021.
In response to Mr Ts complaint Moneybarn said it carried out appropriate affordability
checks. It said it had run a credit check on Mr T which showed satisfactory results and it said
it had verified his income by checking payslips. Moneybarn said it carried out an estimated
calculation about Mr Ts outgoings which showed he had sufficient disposable income to
make the repayments on the agreement.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. I said, in summary:
Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr T could afford to make the monthly repayments before bringing about this 
loan for him. 
Generally, the scope and extent of Moneybarns checks needed to reflect the nature 
of the loan, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.
Mr T was borrowing a not insignificant sum in absolute terms over a relatively long 
period of time. That suggested to me that the checks should have been relatively 
rigorous.
Moneybarn hadnt sent us the full results of the credit check, just its own, non-
contemporaneous, summary of it. So, I couldnt be sure what Moneybarn saw when it 
carried out the credit check in December 2015. On that basis, I couldnt say 
Moneybarn had demonstrated it checked Mr Ts credit commitments.
This was something it should reasonably have done in Mr Ts case given what Id 
said about the sum he was borrowing, the monthly repayments and the duration of 
the agreement. So, without this information, I didnt think Moneybarn had 
demonstrated that the affordability checks it did were proportionate.
In trying to piece together what Moneybarn would most likely have seen on a credit 
check, I acknowledged that Mr Ts current credit file was unlikely to show me 
everything I needed to know given the time that had passed. For example, records of 
defaults or insolvency made before Mr Ts credit application might not have been 
present now as they often disappear from a credit file after six years.  
Mr T had provided persuasive evidence that he had an IVA that had likely failed 
sometime before he borrowed from Moneybarn. This included the initial set up 
paperwork from the insolvency practitioner, his bank statements showing the 
payments to the insolvency practitioner failing, and a letter from one of his creditors 
saying it had been told his IVA had failed. 
I thought it was likely a credit check would have identified this. And I thought this 
ought reasonably to have led Moneybarn to ask more questions about Mr Ts level of 
indebtedness  given a failed IVA likely meant he still owed money to creditors.
Even if it a credit check hadnt shown this, I thought it was likely it would have shown 
that Mr T hadnt been making payments in the months before his application to a 
number of creditors hed likely defaulted with after the IVA failed. His bank 
statements showed he hadnt paid most of these creditors for at least the three 
months before his application. So, questions should still have been asked.  
Had reasonable enquiries have been made of Mr T, its likely they would have 
uncovered that he still owed significant sums of money to as many as a dozen 
lenders as a result of the failed IVA. The IVA related to around £20,000 of debt. 
Mr T had provided evidence that at least some of those lenders were still pursuing 
him for the full repayment of his debts to them after the IVA had failed. 
Having considered what Mr T likely owed to these lenders in conjunction with the 
information Moneybarn obtained about his monthly income, and also having regard 
for Mr Ts other outgoings I thought that proportionate checks would most likely have 
shown the monthly repayments were unaffordable for him. 
Mr T said that although hed prioritised the repayments with Moneybarn and had not 
missed any of them (save for a payment holiday), this led to him having to take credit 
elsewhere to meet his other expenses. 
I thought therefore that Moneybarn had failed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and had lent to Mr T in circumstances where the repayments 
appeared to be unaffordable for him. 
In thinking about how to put things right I thought it was fair and reasonable that Mr T 
should repay the principal amount that he borrowed, because he had the benefit of 
that lending via the use of the car for the entirety of the agreement. But he had paid 
interest on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, I thought Mr T had 
lost out and Moneybarn should put things right for him by refunding all the interest he 
paid.
I thought Moneybarn should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan 
from the outset. I thought that any payments made by Mr T should then be deducted 
from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr T had made totalled more than the 
amount he was originally lent, I thought any surplus should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple interest calculated on any 
overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Mr T to the date the complaint 
is settled.
Moneybarn had made some errors in respect of a payment holiday Mr T asked for 
during the Covid-19 pandemic but had paid him appropriate compensation for this 
already.
Mr T agreed with my provisional decision. 
Moneybarn didnt provide a response before the deadline I set the parties. The complaint has therefore been returned to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr T has agreed with my provisional decision and Moneybarn hasnt provided any new 
comments or evidence in response to it, I see no reason to change my findings. 
So, for the reasons I have summarised above, I still find that Moneybarn provided lending 
that was unaffordable for Mr T and should refund the interest he paid on the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. To put things right Moneybarn No.1 
Limited must:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any
payments made by Mr T should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If
the payments Mr T has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple
interest calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Mr T 
to the date the complaint is settled*, and;
arrange for the removal of any adverse information about the loan that may have
been recorded with the credit reference agencies.
*If Moneybarn No.1 Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman