DRN-2264219
The complaint
Miss M has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Miss M bought the policy in May 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Miss Ms outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Miss M returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss M says that when she completed her application, she was under the impression PPI 
was necessary in order to get the store card. She also says she was given little information 
about the PPI in the busy store, and the assistant told her where to sign.
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Ms application form. Looking at the form, there is a 
section about Account Cover  PPI. This broadly explains what the cover is and 
underneath, there is a statement to say yes to Account Cover. In brackets it says, Only 
sign this box if you require Account Cover. I can see Miss M signed in the box, indicating 
she wanted the PPI added to her account.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Miss M had the option of 
selecting whether or not she wanted a Card Protection Plan. Miss M didnt select this 
product, so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not Miss M would have understood the PPI was optional. 
And I dont think she would have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA says it didnt recommend PPI to Miss M, but Miss M says it did. I havent seen anything 
on the application form to suggest AXA reviewed Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale 
and Miss M said herself that she was given very little information. So, I dont think AXA did 
recommend the PPI to Miss M, which means it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
AXA did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide herself 
whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about 
her circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think 
better information would have stopped her buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
the policy wasnt affordable for Miss M.
Ive considered that Miss M says she was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six 
months half sick pay from her employer and that she would have received redundancy pay if 
she lost her job. But as the policy would have paid out on top of her sick pay entitlement and 
potentially for longer, I think Miss M still could have found the cover useful if she fell on hard 
times. And overall, I dont think better information would have changed her decision to take 
the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman