DRN-3663334
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc refused to process a cheque 
that they deposited, and instead closed the account. 
What happened
K is represented by its director Ms E. K held an account with Barclays. Ms E went into a 
Barclays branch to deposit a cheque from a third-party bank for payment to K. Barclays had 
concerns about the cheque and didnt process it. They also closed Ks account.
Ms E raised a complaint on behalf of K. She asked for the funds from the cheque to be 
released to her, or for the cheque to be returned to her. But Barclays didnt feel theyd done 
anything wrong. They said the terms of Ks account allowed them to close the account at any 
time. They explained that as the cheque was never processed there were no funds to be 
released. But they accepted they had provided K with some wrong information about 
needing proof of the funds and offered £200 compensation.
Barclays later clarified to K that they would be returning the cheque to the issuing branch of 
the third-party bank.
Unhappy with this K referred their complaint to our service. One of investigators looked into 
what happened but didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further. She thought it was 
reasonable for Barclays to have concerns about the cheque and to decline to process it. She 
also felt it was reasonable for Barclays to decline to return the cheque, considering their 
concerns. She said the account closure was in line with the terms of Ks account, and that 
the £200 Barclays had offered was a fair amount for the incorrect information given.
K disagreed and asked for the cheque to be returned. Because no agreement could be 
reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to have concerns about the cheque, 
considering its high value. A cheque is a promise to pay an amount, but it is not a guarantee. 
So, if a bank has valid concerns that a cheque will not clear  for example if there is not 
enough money in the account the cheque is from  then its reasonable to not process the 
cheque.
From Barclays notes I can see that after Ms E deposited the cheque, she told Barclays that 
the funds werent yet in the third-party bank account. Ive seen nothing to suggest this 
cheque would have cleared, or that this money should be available to K. The information Ive 
seen suggests there wasnt enough money in the third-party bank account. Therefore, its 
completely reasonable that Barclays declined to process the cheque.
As the cheque wasnt processed no funds were transferred to Barclays. There is nothing to 
return to K, aside from existing balance on Ks account which Barclays have already done.
Im satisfied that Ms E would have been aware of this at the time she attempted to deposit 
the cheque into Ks account. Having reviewed Barclays terms, Im satisfied this gives them 
grounds to close Ks account in the manner they did.
Barclays are not obliged to return the cheque to K and have explained theyve returned the 
cheque to the third-party bank. I consider this to be a reasonable course of action, 
considering the very valid concerns about this cheque. 
Overall, Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays have been unreasonable in declining to pay 
the value of the cheque into Ks account or return the cheque to Ms E. 
Barclays have already offered £200 for giving K incorrect information about needing proof of 
funds. If K wishes to accept this, they should contact Barclays directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc do not need to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman