DRN-3495961
The complaint
Mr M complains about TenetConnect Limiteds (Tenet) advice in connection
With his desire to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational
pension scheme to a personal pension arrangement. Tenet recommended Mr M should not 
transfer the benefits from his DB scheme, which Mr M feels is generic advice based on 
regulatory guidance rather than what best suits him as an individual.
What happened
In 2020 Mr M approached Tenet for advice about his DB pension scheme because he was 
interested in transferring the benefits to a personal pension for the primary reason of leaving 
a legacy to his partner and/or her child upon his death.
Tenet gathered information about Mr Ms circumstances at the time as well as
information about the benefits available from his DB scheme. Amongst other things
Tenet recorded that:
Mr M was 56, single and a houseperson.
He rented his home, he had no significant cash assets and had a credit card balance 
of around £6,000 on a 0% interest rate.
His income and expenditure recorded a monthly deficit of around £200.
He anticipated not needing an income from his DB pension and that the state 
pension would meet his income needs  so his intention for his pension was to 
provide greater lump sum death benefits.
Mr Ms attitude to risk was deemed to be highest medium  a score of 7 on a scale 
of 1-10.
Mr Ms DB pension had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of around 
£430,000
Mr M had an existing personal pension with a value of just under £25,000.
In early 2021 Tenet produced a Financial Planning Report in which it recommended that 
Mr M should not transfer out of his DB scheme because it deemed it wasnt in Mr Ms best 
interests to be exposed to the risks it outlined. Its recommendation was instead that Mr M 
take his tax-free cash entitlement and reduced pension immediately to enable him to repay 
his debt, provide some emergency funds and provide a guaranteed indexed pension for life.
In April 2021 Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr M said 
that he wanted to transfer his pension but Tenet wouldnt recommend it because of the 
regulators rules. 
He said the reasons he wants to transfer are because he doesnt want a regular income, he 
doesnt want to be forced to make a decision about taking his tax-free cash once, he wants 
to take money out when needed in a tax-efficient manner and he wants to provide as much 
money by way of death benefits as possible. Mr M says he was told by Tenet these reasons 
were irrelevant and was told to take a regular income. Mr M believes hes been misadvised.
Ive not been able to review Tenets full response to Mr Ms complaint  but I understand that 
in summary it said it believed its advice was suitable based on Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time. Mr M has told us that Tenets decision about his complaint was based on three key 
reasons  the transfer wasnt financially viable because it didnt purchase the same level of 
benefits as the DB scheme, Mr M had a credit card debt and he had an income shortfall.
Mr M disagreed with Tenets response and he entered into further correspondence with it. In 
doing so Mr M informed Tenet that his partner was due an inheritance and I understand that 
he asked if this had been considered as part of the advice he received.
Tenet replied that there was no evidence of an inheritance discussed at the time but that in 
any event it didnt think it would have impacted on the recommendation made to not transfer 
out of the DB scheme. It said that it could see that life cover was discussed as part of the 
advice to meet Mr Ms objective of wanting to look after his family in the event of his death 
and said this could be discussed further if he wanted to pursue this. It concluded that its 
advice was suitable and so didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Because Mr M remained dissatisfied he asked this service to consider the matter. In doing 
so Mr M said that the reasons Tenet gave for not recommending the transfer were irrelevant 
 he says transfer values will never purchase greater benefits than a DB scheme unless the 
value has been overstated; his credit card debt wasnt an issue and his income shortfall was 
based on a telephone call in which he quoted figures off the top of his head. Mr M provided 
details of the inheritance his partner received, which he says means he has savings in the 
bank. And he repeated his reasons for wanting to transfer out of his DB scheme as Ive 
previously referred to. 
One of our investigators considered the matter and they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In 
summary they said they didnt think it was in Mr Ms best interest to transfer his pension 
given his circumstances at the time and given the transfer wasnt financially viable. They 
said that a pensions primary purpose is to provide an income in retirement and not as an 
inheritance vehicle. They said they considered Mr Ms other reasons for wanting to transfer 
but didnt think there was a compelling reason to do so which would justify losing the 
guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme. They acknowledged the point that Mr M had made 
about Tenets refusal to carry things out on an insistent client basis  but said this decision 
was down to Tenet and not one the Financial Ombudsman Service could change.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment. Amongst other things he repeated the 
reasons he wants to transfer his pension and why he believes the reasons Tenet gave for 
not recommending the transfer are irrelevant. Mr M said he doesnt think hes received 
individual advice based on his circumstances and that Tenet is hiding behind the stipulation 
from the financial regulator that a transfer value comparison must be carried out, which will 
almost always show that a transfer isnt financially viable. Mr M later added that he thought 
the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service was to see if advice had been given on an 
independent and individual basis and not whether the adviser had followed regulatory rules.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made many points in bringing his complaint. While Ive carefully read and 
considered everything, I havent addressed every point here. Instead Ive focused on what I see as the crux of Mr Ms complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulators position
I think its important to highlight to Mr M that the the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that its unsuitable. So, Tenet should only 
have considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Tenets recommendation
I think the conclusion reached by Tenet that transferring Mr Ms DB scheme benefits was 
likely not in his best interests from a financial viability perspective, was reasonable. Mr Ms 
DB scheme provided a guaranteed escalating pension from age 60. And the information 
Tenet recorded at the time and relied on support the view that it was highly unlikely Mr M 
would be better off financially in retirement as a result of transferring. Specifically, the cost of 
purchasing equivalent benefits would cost Mr M over £200,000 on top of the CETV being 
offered by the DB scheme  the critical yield was also likely unrealistic based on investment 
returns at the time and how long Mr M had until reaching his normal retirement age under 
the existing scheme.
I can see that Mr M has questioned the validity of this financial viability assessment and says 
that Tenet is hiding behind the requirement from the FCA that this should be carried out. But 
Tenet was required to produce this analysis under FCA rules  it couldnt simply ignore this 
regulatory requirement in Mr Ms case. And in my view the comparator is important because 
it highlights the risks involved in transferring and the valuable benefits provided by a DB 
pension.
But financial viability is not the only consideration  there might be other compelling reasons, 
which would make a transfer suitable. And here Mr M has been clear that he wanted to 
transfer out of the scheme and reinvest it in order to provide a legacy for his family. This is 
clearly documented in the advice paperwork.  
But, as I've said above, the regulators position is that the starting point for Tenet would be to 
consider that a transfer was not in his best interests. So it could only reasonably make a 
recommendation to transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that such a transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And, in giving that advice, the priority for Tenet was to make a 
recommendation concerning Mr Ms retirement provisions. Thats because a pensions 
primarily purpose is to provide an income in retirement  thats what it is designed for. It is 
not designed to be primarily used as an inheritance planning tool.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Tenet to place great weight on Mr Ms retirement 
income needs over potentially higher death benefits for his loved ones  particularly when it 
appears Mr Ms objective of wanting to provide for his family could likely be met by other 
means such as taking out life cover. I appreciate the suitability report mentioned a whole of 
life policy with a sum assured equal to the transfer value at a cost of around £270 a month, 
which was clearly unaffordable. But as Tenet says, this was just a starting point. I think there 
were other options that couldve been explored  for example term assurance and/or looking at the amount Mr M ideally wanted to leave to his family, which would likely result in a lower 
cost.
I think its important to stress that Tenets role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr M 
wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr M, and in doing so it had to look beyond what Mr M 
wanted and make a determination of what it believed was in his best interests. And from the 
recommendation report Tenet produced, its clear that it believed Mr Ms chosen path, which 
was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement for the opportunity to leave a higher 
legacy to his family, wasnt in his best interests. I think this was a fair and reasonable 
conclusion for Tenet to make at the time.
Mr M says the advice he received wasnt independent or on an individual basis. But from 
what I can see I think Tenets advice was based on Mr Ms individual circumstances and 
objectives at the time. I say this because Tenet completed a fact-find document, which 
captured Mr Ms circumstances and requirements at the time including setting out why he 
wanted to look into transferring. The suitability report was also clear about what the adviser 
had considered in giving their advice - this included their research that Mr Ms existing DB 
scheme would likely pay death benefits to an unmarried partner, Mr M could defer taking his 
benefits at 60 if he didnt want to take additional income at this time and that by remaining in 
his DB scheme Mr M retained flexibility because he still had the option to transfer in the 
future or he could take the guaranteed income depending on his circumstances at that time.
I understand that Mr M disagrees with Tenets advice and recommendation. But Im satisfied 
Tenets advice was based on his individual circumstances and needs at the time and that 
having considered these it deemed it wasnt in Mr Ms best interests to transfer the benefits 
from his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement.
Mr M has said that Tenet failed to take into account an inheritance Mr Ms partner was due 
to receive. But theres no reference to any inheritance in the advice paperwork  if this had 
been discussed I would expect to see it here. And given Mr M likely saw the advice 
paperwork, I think its reasonable to assume he couldve queried its omission at the time. 
Mr M also says the income shortfall noted in the advice paperwork was based on figures he 
gave to Tenet off the top of his head. But again, if on reflection having received the advice 
paperwork Mr M thought this was wrong, he couldve told Tenet to correct things at the time.
I can see that Mr M has also complained that Tenet has refused to transact the transfer from 
his DB scheme on an insistent client basis. But Tenet isnt under any obligation to do so. 
And I cant compel Tenet to do so. Mr M is free to approach another firm if he still wishes to 
transfer his pension.
Finally I want to clarify that I cannot change or influence the rules the FCA sets for 
businesses  thats not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. My role is to consider 
individual complaints to assess if any wrongdoing requires putting things right. And in this 
case, Im satisfied Tenet hasnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly here - so I 
dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman