DRN-3673222
The complaint
Mr J complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd (James Hay), the administrator 
of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), provided him with a poor service. He says this 
led to increased costs, unfair terms and conditions, and the effective blocking of a transfer of 
the SIPP to another provider.
Mr J is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only give a summary 
here.
Mr J had a SIPP which was administered by James Hay. I understand that Mr J had 
originally taken out the SIPP in 2000 with an organisation which hed chosen because it was 
a small company with easily contactable staff. And with a dedicated contact person.  Mr J 
said this arrangement was very important to him as he didnt have access to other support. 
But that this company was acquired by James Hay. He said that although James Hay had 
claimed that the operation of his account would remain the same, hed experienced poor 
customer service.
Mr J said that he tried to move his external bank account from his existing provider to a 
different provider Ill refer to as provider A. He said he wanted to do this in order to benefit 
from a time-limited offer that was worth £1,500. But that hed missed out on the switch as 
James Hay had caused issues with the transfer which werent resolved until after the offer 
was withdrawn. 
On 24 July 2020 James Hay wrote to Mr J to tell him that it was changing the charging 
structure of the SIPP with effect from 1 September 2020. The letter detailed the changes and 
explained why they were being made. It also said that Mr J could transfer his SIPP to 
another provider if he wasnt happy with the changes. And that if he wanted to transfer out 
by 30 November 2020, James Hay would waive any additional product charges incurred as 
a result of the changes, including any property transfer out charge. The letter noted that 
there would be other costs associated with transferring a property which it wouldnt cover. 
Mr J complained to James Hay on 23 October 2020 about the poor service hed received. 
He said James Hay hadnt responded to emails or letters and that hed been unable to 
contact it on the phone. Mr J also said that he wanted to move his SIPP to another provider. 
So he asked James Hay to cancel its latest invoice. He also said he didnt accept the revised 
terms or conditions. 
James Hay issued its final response to the complaint on 16 June 2021. It acknowledged that 
it had taken too long to return communications with Mr J on several occasions. And 
apologised for this. But it didnt uphold Mr Js complaints about the charges it had applied. It 
said the invoice Mr J had asked it to cancel was the annual property charge, which it said 
had been charged correctly and in line the terms and conditions. 
James Hay said it wasnt unreasonable for it to review its terms and conditions and charges 
from time to time, or to introduce changes. It also said that Mr J was allowed under the terms 
and conditions to transfer his SIPP away from James Hay if he was unhappy with any 
changes. It said that if Mr J wanted to transfer away from James Hay, as a gesture of 
goodwill it would be prepared to waive the transfer out fee. And that this offer would be in 
place until 14 September 2021. 
Mr J said he sent a follow-up complaint on 22 June 2021. He felt that most of his complaint 
points had been ignored. 
James Hay wrote to Mr J on 31 August 2021 about his insurance arrangements for his 
commercial property. It said that its records didnt hold a current insurance schedule. It noted 
that its terms and conditions required sufficient insurance to be in place. And detailed the 
requirements for the cover. It asked Mr J to forward the renewed insurance as a matter of 
urgency. And said that if he couldnt provide the insurance schedule within 14 days, it would 
arrange for cover to be added to its block policy, with the cost being met from his SIPP.
One of the requirements for cover was that three years loss of rent had to be included. But 
Mr J had an arrangement with his tenant in which he wasnt paying rent. So he said the 
cover James Hay required wasnt possible. 
James Hay wrote to Mr J again on 30 September 2021 and 23 November 2021 as it still 
hadnt received the requested current insurance schedule.
Mr J was unhappy with James Hays request. So he complained again on 6 December 2021.  
He said he was still receiving poor service. And that hed been unable to access his online 
account for a while. He felt that James Hays failure to provide a functioning and responsive 
Customer Services Department meant that he couldnt transfer his SIPP away from it. 
Mr J provided James Hay with extracts from the insurance cover that was in place for his 
commercial property. He said this showed that his cover met most of James Hays 
requirements. But that he couldnt get loss of rent cover as his current tenant wasnt paying 
any rent. He said that another policy shouldnt be set up on his behalf as it might invalidate 
both sets of cover.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service on 14 December 2021.
On 17 December 2021, James Hay replied to Mr Js 6 December 2021 complaint letter. It 
said it wasnt possible to put all matters on hold regarding the insurance cover, as this could 
place a potential financial risk to the pension scheme. It asked Mr J to explain the existing 
legal position of the tenancy. It said this was because it needed to be completely clear about 
the exact basis of the arrangement so it could understand the risks. And that until Mr J 
provided this information it couldnt agree that no loss of rental cover was required.
On 3 May 2022, James Hay confirmed to this service that it had offered to waive its normal 
transfer fee if Mr J elected to transfer his pension plan to another provider. But that it hadnt 
to date received any formal instruction to arrange the transfer of Mr Js plan away from 
James Hay. 
On 9 May 2022, James Hay told this service that it would be prepared to further extend its 
offer to waive its normal transfer fee until 9 August 2022. It said that in order to waive its 
fees, it would expect to have received a formal instruction to transfer Mr Js plan by that date 
at the latest. It also confirmed that its offer didnt include any additional costs such as 
solicitors fees that might also be incurred.On 17 June 2022, James Hay told this service that it didnt hold the details of any insurance 
that was currently in place in respect of Mr Js SIPP. Or if any such policy met its current 
requirements in full. It said the last policy it had on its records expired in April 2022.
On 30 June 2022, Mr J provided a detailed summary of his complaint to this service. He 
made complaint points about the following issues:
- Poor customer service including: no regular point of contact for queries and no 
individual ownership of an issue; central helpline where questions cant be answered 
directly, leading to wasted time and effort getting the required answer; difficulty 
contacting the named person who issued correspondence making it difficult to 
resolve issues or get more details about something; delays in receiving 
correspondence; failure to respond to written correspondence; excessive call wait 
times; confusion over the use of secure message or normal email; problems with 
online access; issues with VAT; confusion over the account name; appointment of a 
solicitor.
- The change to the terms and conditions. And the increased charging. 
- The insurance cover required.
- The missed opportunity to transfer his bank account to provider A.
- The effective blocking of his desired transfer to another SIPP provider.
Mr J felt that he should be entitled to a refund of the service charges paid. And financial 
compensation for James Hays failures.
Mr J provided this service with evidence that he had some insurance cover for his 
commercial property over the period from 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023 on 29 July 2022.
On 5 August 2022, James Hay told this service that if Mr J wanted to transfer to another 
provider, it would be happy to extend its previous offer to waive the property transfer fee, 
which was normally £450 plus VAT, and that this offer would be open for 90 days from the 
date of the view or the date of an ombudsman decision.  
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint in August 2022. He didnt feel that the 
complaint should be upheld. He considered that James Hay had fairly followed its terms and 
conditions in relation to charges and insurance. He also felt that both James Hay and Mr J 
couldve done more to mitigate the delays to the transfer to provider A. So he didnt consider 
that it was fully James Hays fault that the transfer hadnt taken place. He also felt that 
James Hays offer to waive the property transfer fee represented a fair and reasonable 
gesture if Mr J were to transfer to another provider. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr J. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Before I consider each complaint point Mr J raised, I note that James Hay has acknowledged and apologised for its service levels. Its also agreed to extend its offer to 
waive the property transfer fee of £450 plus VAT for 90 days from the date my final decision.    
I need to decide if the steps James Hay has taken to put things right are fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances of the complaint.  
I first considered Mr Js complaint that James Hays actions led to him missing the 
opportunity to transfer his bank account to provider A by the end of August 2020. 
Bank account transfer to provider A
Mr J wanted to benefit from a time-limited offer that he said was worth £1,500. He feels he 
missed out because James Hay caused delays. 
Mr J said he sent James Hay an opening application form to complete for provider A on 25 
February 2020. He said that James Hay replied on 9 March 2020 that the document had 
been completed and sent to provider A by special delivery. And that the letter stated that 
James Hay expected to receive confirmation within 15 business days. But that it would 
periodically chase provider A if it hadnt heard from them. 
Mr J said that he sent a template form to James Hay to complete on 22 June 2020. He said 
this was the final part of the paperwork provider A required to open the account.
I understand that James Hay sent the document to provider A on 29 June 2020, although 
there was some confusion at the time about when it had actually been sent. 
Mr J said that provider A emailed him on 7 August 2020 to confirm that some paperwork had 
been completed incorrectly by James Hay. He said that provider A said that as soon as the 
paperwork was corrected it would open the account.
Mr J said that hed later called provider A to explain itd been difficult contacting James Hay. 
He said provider A had agreed that he could correct the paperwork on behalf of James Hay. 
But due to issues with the account name, Mr J had to try to get James Hay to assist. He said 
he sent an urgent email to James Hay on 14 August 2020 about this. But that it didnt reply 
until 20 April 2021, which was too late for the account to be opened.
Mr J feels that James Hay is fully responsible for his missed opportunity to open the new 
bank account. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, including what Mr J has told this service. 
I note that provider A withdrew a service - a current account linked to a SIPP pension - that it 
had offered towards the end of August 2020. This meant that Mr Js application wasnt made 
in time. Provider As decision to withdraw the service was clearly outside the control of 
James Hay. So I cant hold it responsible for that decision. But I can consider if James Hay 
and Mr J couldve taken actions to mitigate the delays in completing the required paperwork.
I acknowledge that James Hay couldve responded much more quickly to Mr Js 14 August 
2020 email in which he asked it for help. Its clear that its eventual reply in April 2021 wasnt 
within normal service standards. But Ive gone on to consider whether other actions couldve 
been taken by either party to mitigate this delay.
From what Ive seen, Mr J only sent James Hay one request for help with the forms on 14 
August 2020. Ive seen no evidence that this request was followed-up or chased in any way. 
And while I appreciate that Mr J has told this service hes had several other issues in getting 
in touch with James Hay, I consider that it wouldve been a good idea for him to have followed up his original email to make sure James Hay had received it and were aware of 
how important it was that it responded to it quickly.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that James Hay is fully responsible for Mr Js 
missed opportunity. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
I next considered Mr Js complaint that James Hay had effectively blocked his desired 
transfer to another SIPP provider.
Did James Hay prevent Mr J from transferring to another provider?
Mr J said hes been trying to leave James Hay since 2020. He said he wanted to move to 
another SIPP provider whose costs, policy and insurance requirements were much better 
suited to him. And who he felt provided more responsive customer services.
Mr J said that James Hay had effectively blocked him from transferring. He said this was 
because of how difficult it was to contact it. And because of the support he would need from 
it on his desired transfer. 
James Hay said that although it had extended its offer to waive its normal transfer fee, Mr J 
hadnt sent it any formal instruction to arrange a transfer of his plan to another provider. 
Ive not been presented with any evidence that Mr J has requested a transfer to another 
provider. So I cant fairly say that James Hay has effectively blocked such a request. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr J couldnt have transferred his SIPP to another provider. As such, I 
cant fairly uphold this part of Mr Js complaint.
I next considered Mr Js complaint about the change to the terms and conditions and the 
increased charging.
Did James Hay act fairly when it changed its terms and conditions?
Mr J said that James Hay has increased its general administration and property charges 
since 2019. And that these were now almost double that of the SIPP provider he wanted to 
move to. He said that James Hays charges had increased every year. He felt this had led to 
a financial loss of £1,992.
James Hay said that it wasnt unreasonable for it to review its terms and conditions and 
charges from time to time, or to introduce changes. It also said that the particular fee that Mr 
J had questioned had been raised and paid in accordance with the charging schedule that 
was applicable to Mr Js SIPP. It provided a copy of this. James Hay also said that it had 
offered to waive its normal transfer fee as Mr J had now said that he didnt want to accept 
the revised terms and conditions that were introduced in 2020. It said it had notified him of 
those changes in writing on 24 July 2020. 
The 24 July 2020 letter stated that James Hay would allow customers 90 days to arrange a 
transfer to another provider if they didnt agree with, or want to accept, the changes. Im 
satisfied that James Hay is entitled to change its terms and conditions as long as it provided 
its customers with fair notification. From what Ive seen, it did this here. Mr J couldve 
decided to transfer his SIPP once hed been informed about the changes he didnt want to 
accept. 
As our investigator noted, its not the role of this service to tell a business how much they 
can or should charge for their services. So while I acknowledge that Mr J didnt want the 
terms and conditions to change, I cant fairly say that James Hay wasnt entitled to make changes. Nor can I reasonably say that, just because James Hays charges are greater than 
that levied by another provider, its charges are unfair. Again, if Mr J felt he could pay lower 
charges for better services elsewhere, he couldve moved to a different provider.
Ive seen no evidence that James Hay levied charges outside of its terms and conditions. So 
I cant reasonably ask it to refund the SIPP administration charges. 
I next considered Mr Js complaint about the insurance cover James Hay required.
Did James Hay act fairly when it required specific insurance?
Mr J felt that James Hay had unreasonably required his commercial property insurance to 
meet certain conditions. He said that its proposed solution to his failure to provide proof of 
the cover it required  to insure him on its block policy  wouldve invalidated both insurance 
policies.
James Hay said that one of its key duties was to ensure that all property investments held on 
a co-trustee basis had appropriate levels of insurance cover in place. It said it had engaged 
with insurance professionals for advice on the appropriate minimum level of cover expected 
to protect the investment while it is held in the pension scheme. And that it had been advised 
that the minimum levels of cover was:
-That any building was covered against events of fire, flood, subsidence, landslip, 
terrorism, lightning strike, explosion or earthquake up to the stated reinstatement 
value as advised by a qualified surveyor.
-Three years loss of rent in the event that the property or land is damaged through 
one of the above incidents to the point that it cannot be occupied.
-Property Owner liability cover to a minimum level of £10 million.
James Hay said that when it didnt receive appropriate evidence that a property investment 
was appropriately covered after two requests, it would immediately organise for cover to be 
arranged through the block insurance policy it held. And that if it subsequently received 
evidence that appropriate insurance was in place, the property could be removed from the 
block policy and a refund arranged.
Ive reviewed the information within James Hays Commercial Property Purchase and 
Maintenance Guide as this contains the specific requirements under Mr Js SIPP. Page 12 
explains the level of insurance required and what would happen if James Hay wasnt 
satisfied that adequate insurance was in place. Im satisfied that this information is 
consistent with the minimum levels of cover James Hay asked Mr J to have. Im also 
satisfied that the requirements are reasonable given James Hays duty to ensure that all 
property investments are fully protected while the asset is held in the pension scheme.
I understand that Mr J felt that James Hay acted unreasonably when it continued to require 
him to have three years loss of rent insurance, despite his existing tenant paying no rent. 
But Im not persuaded that it did. I say this because James Hay told this service that 
because of its requirement that property insurance included cover for three years loss of 
rent, it needed Mr J to provide it with specific details of how his agreement with his tenant to 
pay no rent had been formalised. This was so that it could further consider whether cover for 
loss of rent was appropriate or not.
Ive no evidence that Mr J ever provided the requested information on his agreement with his 
tenant. But I consider that it was reasonable for James Hay to ask for this information under the circumstances. I consider that its only alternative wouldve been to arrange for Mr Js 
property to be covered by its block policy. But Mr J had asked it not to do that. 
Overall, I consider that James Hay acted fairly when it required specific insurance, or further 
information from Mr J if he couldnt get the specified insurance. So I dont think it did 
anything wrong here.
I finally considered Mr Js complaints about the poor service he received from James Hay.
Poor service
James Hay has accepted that its service levels fell short. I need to decide if its apology and 
its offer to waive transfer fees in line with its original 24 July 2020 offer is fair under the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr J has provided detailed information to this service about the poor customer service he 
received. I can see that he didnt get the service hed hoped for or expected. The difficulty he 
had in communicating with James Hay clearly caused Mr J inconvenience.
From what Ive seen, Mr J wanted the service hed signed up for in 2000 to continue when 
the business hed originally chosen was taken over by James Hay. He wanted a dedicated 
contact person so he could make contact easily and get the help he required in a timely 
fashion. Unfortunately, that service wasnt available with James Hay.
I understand why Mr J was disappointed with the service he received from James Hay. So 
Ive gone on to consider if its apology and offer to waive the normal transfer fee was fair 
compensation for the poor service Mr J received. 
From what Ive seen, James Hay has offered to waive the property transfer fee as long if Mr 
J still wants to move his SIPP to another provider, as long as he takes action to do this within 
90 days of this decision. I understand that the property transfer fee would normally be £450 
plus VAT. 
Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable response and in line with what this service 
would have recommended. As such, I dont require James Hay to take any additional action. 
And I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman