DRN-3195211
The complaint
Mr K and Mr M complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wouldnt allow 
them to take a new preferential interest rate as they use their property partly for commercial 
purposes and Virgin Money doesnt allow that with residential mortgages.
Mr K and Mr M say that the lender they took the mortgage out with, which Ill call N, agreed 
to them using the property in this way.
What happened
Mr K and Mr M took out their mortgage with N in 2003 through a mortgage broker. They 
were buying their current property and borrowed around £740,000 on an interest only basis 
over 25 years.
They took a further advance in 2004 for around £260,000 on an interest only basis over 24 
years.
In 2005 their initial preferential rate came to an end and they took out a new fixed interest 
rate until 1 January 2008.
In March 2008 Mr K contacted N and various other parties (such as the regulator and his 
MP) as he was unhappy that his interest rate was so high (by then he and Mr M were on the 
standard variable rate). He said that N had a large number of good quality borrowers that 
were being penalised and N should arrange to migrate those good mortgages to another 
lender.
N responded to thank Mr K for his comments and said that it was considering numerous 
factors when planning its strategy. It said that a manager from the mortgage review 
department would call Mr K.
Unhappy with that Mr K replied to say it was an inappropriate response, and said that he 
required N to arrange to sell on the clean mortgages.
A response was sent from the then Chief Executive, saying hed noted Mr Ks suggestion 
and said N was already looking into ways to transfer existing customers to alternative 
lenders, with him anticipating them concluding an arrangement later in the year.
Mr K responded to say that higher value borrowers could be sliced off sooner, and hes 
unhappy at paying an additional £25,000 a year.
Theres no note of any further correspondence at that time.
Mr K and Mr M then took out a new interest rate with N in December 2009 which ran until 1 
January 2012.
The mortgage was transferred to Virgin Money in 2012.
In 2013 Mr K and Mr M complained to Virgin Money as they were unhappy their mortgage 
had reverted to the standard variable rate. They said N should have been more proactive in 
bringing the fact their rate was ending to their attention. They also complained that Virgin 
Money wouldnt allow them to take a new interest rate because it had been told that Mr K 
and Mr M were running a Bed and Breakfast business from the property.
Virgin Money didnt uphold the complaint, saying a letter was sent in October 2011 to tell 
Mr K and Mr M that their interest rate was coming to an end, and it only offers residential 
mortgages and as Mr K and Mr M were using their property partly for commercial purposes 
they didnt qualify for a new interest rate.
Mr K and Mr M referred that complaint to our service in 2015 and one of our adjudicators 
said we couldnt consider it as the complaint hadnt been referred to us within six months of 
the final response letter from the business. We said whilst Mr K and Mr M felt that Virgin 
Money may have waived its objection to us considering the complaint, none of the evidence 
suggested that was the case. Unfortunately, for data retention reasons, we no longer hold 
the file for that complaint but it doesnt appear that Mr K and Mr M requested an ombudsman 
consider matters at that time.
Mr K and Mr M then complained to Virgin Money again in 2020. Virgin Money didnt uphold 
the complaint, saying it hadnt changed its position from the 2013 final response letter. It also 
said it couldnt facilitate a face to face meeting between Mr K and Mr Ms solicitor and its 
senior management, it had referred the rate issue to its private banking area that were also 
unable to help, and that Mr K and Mr M should consult an independent financial adviser. 
Finally, it said it was sorry that Mr K and Mr M were unhappy with some of the wording used 
in a recent phone call, and the call handler had meant no offence and also passed on her 
apologies.
The complaint was then referred to this service. Whilst the complaint was with us Mr K and 
Mr Ms mortgage broker arranged a new rate online with Virgin Money. As that happened 
after the complaint was with us and Mr K and Mr M didnt consent to us sharing the 
information Virgin Money needed to complete an investigation into what happened, I wont 
be making any findings on that point, but I will need to mention it as it forms part of the 
overall circumstances.
One of our investigators looked at things and didnt uphold the complaint. She found, in 
summary:
Virgin Money doesnt have to agree to meet in person.
Mr K and Mr M should raise their issues with the data subject access request with the 
ICO, and she was unable to recommend Virgin Money take any action. If the ICO felt 
action was needed then it would say so.
Virgin Money hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr K and Mr M had an agreement with 
N about how they could use the property, but even if there was that agreement then it 
wasnt reasonable to assume it would continue indefinitely or that it would carry over 
to a new lender.
The property is being used commercially and Virgin Money doesnt allow that for 
residential mortgages.
Virgin Money couldnt complete an investigation into how Mr K and Mr Ms broker 
obtained a new rate in 2021, but from what she could see it was because the broker 
didnt disclose the true use of the property, instead just applying for a standard 
residential rate switch.
Mr K and Mr M didnt agree and so the matter was passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr K and Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that 
we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on a 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what 
happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good 
industry practice, the business acted fairly and reasonably.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, we look at things independently without 
taking sides and we dont take directions on what questions should be asked and answered 
or how our investigations should be carried out. Ive considered the various alleged breaches 
of MCOB and other regulations (such as the UTCCR) but I wont be detailing each of those 
points individually, as whilst Ive taken those submissions into account my role is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the round.
Mr K and Mr M have said:
The agreement we had with [N] came about at the time of the 2008 banking crash when 
members of the Monetary Select committee were contacted by me and in turn asked 
[Mr H] the CEO of [N] to speak with me about concerns we had over our [N] Mortgage. 
Our agreements were made at the highest levels within [N].
Theyve said these were conversations and havent indicated that anything was put in writing 
by either side, and havent said exactly when these conversations took place, with another 
submission saying 2009 rather than 2008. In one submission, under the date range 
11 March 2008 to 19 May 2008 they said:
DSAR from [Virgin Money] reflects CEO engagement with us but the entries have been 
redacted like most of the DSAR and all entries in this date range have nothing of value to 
support our claims. Our claim has always been that [Mr H] had agreed it was ok to 
operate the BnB and that less than 12 Weddings a year were also OK. We have never 
done more than 8 in a year usually less than 6.
It became public knowledge that N was in trouble in September 2007, and then it was 
nationalised in February 2008. 
We have on file copies of emails between Mr K and N from March 2008 and one of those is 
from the then-CEO, however that isnt the CEO that was named by Mr K and Mr M as the 
one who made this agreement. Mr H (who Mr K and Mr M say made this agreement) didnt 
join N until October 2008 (which was a few months after the first online reviewer said they stayed at Mr K and Mr Ms B&B business). Theres also no mention in any of those emails of 
Mr K and Mr Ms plans to use the property for commercial purposes.
It seems unusual that Mr K and Mr M didnt get an agreement as important as this one 
confirmed in writing, and unfortunately there simply isnt anything to indicate they spoke to 
Mr H (as CEO of N) and that he agreed that they could retain a residential mortgage 
indefinitely (and obtain preferential residential mortgage rates) whilst using the property 
commercially. That would be an exceptional concession, and highly uncommon. 
Having considered everything, on balance I dont find it likely that the incoming CEO of N 
agreed that Mr K and Mr M could use their property commercially whilst retaining a 
residential mortgage (and benefitting from preferential residential mortgage rates) for the life 
of their mortgage. A concession like this  if agreed  was more likely to be a temporary 
measure to allow a customer time to find a commercial mortgage elsewhere, otherwise it 
defeats the purposes of there being separate mortgages for wholly residential purposes and 
those for properties with commercial use. 
I understand Mr K and Mr Ms broker obtained a new preferential rate for them in 2021, but 
as Ive said I cant make a decision on this aspect as Virgin Money hasnt had the chance to 
consider it. But I would say that for normally for rate changes there isnt the manual 
intervention that Mr K and Mr M seem to think  that is, Virgin Money hasnt now given 
permission for them to use the property commercially just because the rate change went 
through as they are generally just an automated process without underwriter input. 
Mr K and Mr M hold a residential mortgage with Virgin Money, and Im satisfied  on balance 
 they dont have permission to use their property commercially whilst still benefitting from 
preferential residential mortgage interest rates. For that reason, Im satisfied Virgin Money 
did nothing wrong when it told Mr K and Mr M that they cant have a new preferential interest 
rate.
Mr K and Mr M have said that Virgin Money wouldnt agree to a face to face meeting. Virgin 
Moneys business model doesnt involve face to face meetings, and theres no reason why 
any senior member of Virgin Moneys staff needs to meet with Mr K and Mr M (or their 
solicitor). Mr K and Mr M have a mortgage with Virgin Money, just like many other 
customers, and Virgin Money isnt treating them any differently here than it would treat any 
other of its mortgage customers by not meeting face to face as it simply isnt a service it 
offers.
There were delays in Mr K and Mr M obtaining their full data subject access request, and 
they were unhappy with both the format of that (such as information that was redacted) and 
how it was sent to them. As our investigator explained, the ICO is the specialist organisation 
for issues relating to data subject access requests (and other data protection issues). That 
said, I cant see theres been any financial detriment to Mr K and Mr M due to the issues with 
the data subject access request, so even if we did consider that issue we wouldnt look to 
award any redress. Any information we need to decide a case we can request directly from a 
business so we dont need the information that a consumer would obtain from a data subject 
access request, and whilst Mr K and Mr M want that information themselves  which is 
completely reasonable  any issues with the provision of it wouldnt have caused any 
detriment in our deciding this complaint.
Mr K and Mr M are unhappy about how Virgin Money handled their complaint both now and 
back in 2013-2015 when they previously complained. 
Our rules set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment 
services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with 
the above. 
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the Financial 
Conduct Authority requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a 
regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out 
in the legislation from which we derive our powers. 
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Virgin Money handled Mr K and Mr Ms 
complaint. 
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any service in handling a complaint if were upholding the underlying issue being 
complained about. As Ive not upheld Mr K and Mr Ms complaint it follows I cant uphold any 
complaint about how Virgin Money handled it either now or in 2013-2015.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman