DRN-3771773
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the time it took Inter Partner Assistance SA to register her claim 
when her flight from South Africa to London was cancelled in November 2021.
What happened
Mrs J had travel insurance with IPA. She was due to fly from Cape Town to London on 28 
November 2021. She received notification on 27 November 2021 that her flight had been 
cancelled. She wasnt able to contact the airline she was booked to travel with, but she was 
able to arrange an alternative flight to London with another airline on 3 December 2021. In 
the interim she was required to pay for Covid testing and accommodation in a quarantine 
hotel. 
Mrs J has told us that she contacted IPA on 7 December 2021 to make a claim. But despite 
sending further emails and attempting to contact them by phone, her claim wasnt set up 
until she raised a complaint on 7 February 2022.
IPA upheld Mrs Js complaint on 31 March 2022 confirming her claim had been set up, 
apologising for the delay in doing this and offering her £100 for the poor level of service 
shed received.
Mrs J wasnt happy with this and complained to our service. By the time Mrs J did this her 
claim had been considered and declined by IPA. Our investigator considered the case and 
initially said that he thought the £100 compensation IPA had offered Mrs J was reasonable, 
as IPA had said they hadnt heard from her until 7 February 2022, when she raised her 
complaint. But he said hed consider this further if Mrs J was able to show shed tried to 
contact them before this date. 
In his opinion our investigator made it clear that he was only considering the delay in setting 
up Mrs Js claim. And if she wanted to complain about her claim being declined, shed need 
to raise this with IPA first.
In response to our investigators opinion, Mrs J provided a copy of a chain of emails between 
herself and IPA. These show that she attempted to make a claim on 7 December 2021. IPA 
responded asking her to provide further information, and she did this the same day. 
On 8 December 2021 IPA told Mrs J that she needed to contact their claims helpline to 
obtain a claim form. Mrs J attempted to do this but on 9 December 2021 she emailed IPA to 
say shed been on hold for over an hour on 8 December 2021, and a further 46 minutes on 
the 9 December 2021. She asked if IPA could send her a claim form, but they didnt 
respond.
Mrs J emailed IPA again on 7 January 2022 to say shed hadnt received a response and 
again asked them to send her a claim form. She also said shed attempted to call the claims 
helpline many times but hadnt been able to get through. Once again, IPA didnt respond. 
She emailed them again on 7 February 2022, raising a complaint. This was picked up by IPA 
and her complaint and claim were registered. 
Having considered the further evidence our investigator said he appreciated that IPA had 
been busy around the time Mrs J attempted to make her claim, and its not our role to punish 
businesses for having long hold times on the phone. He also said he didnt know how many 
times Mrs J had attempted to call IPA or how long shed been on hold each time. And he 
thought Mrs J could have emailed more frequently if shed been desperate to register the 
claim. Although, he acknowledged that it would have been off-putting to keep doing this 
when she wasnt getting a response.
But overall, he thought IPA should have done more to respond to Mrs Js emails. And the 
fact they raised a claim when she made a complaint showed this could have been done 
without her calling the claims helpline.
So he felt IPA had caused Mrs J unreasonable frustration and delay and the £100 theyd 
offered wasnt enough to compensate her for this. He recommended they increase their 
compensation offer to £250, which he felt was a fair level of compensation for the impact of 
what shed been through.
Mrs J was happy with the increased level of compensation our investigator recommended 
but IPA werent. They suggested £200 was a more appropriate figure.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only considering Mrs Js complaint about the delay in IPA registering her claim. As our 
investigator has said, if Mrs J wants to complain about her claim being declined, shell need 
to raise this directly with IPA.
IPA have accepted that the level of service Mrs J received when she was trying to register 
her claim wasnt acceptable, and I agree. She first tried to register the claim on 7 December 
2021, but it wasnt registered until she raised a complaint on 7 February 2022.
I appreciate that when Mrs J was trying to contact IPA their phone lines would have been 
busy. But when she wasnt able to get through, she asked them to send her a claim form. 
And I think matters would have progressed more quickly if this had been done.
When Mrs J complained, IPA were able to set up her claim based on the information shed 
provided in December 2021. So I think its reasonable to say there was an unnecessary 
delay. Mrs J had told IPA of the impact her cancelled flight had on her, so they knew how 
important it was to her, to get a response to her claim.
While I think Mrs J could have emailed IPA more frequently, when she couldnt contact them 
by phone, I appreciate she may have been reluctant to do this, as she hadnt received a 
response to her earlier emails.
But shed provided all the information IPA needed to set up her complaint in December 
2021, which IPA could have acted on. So I think IPA caused Mrs J unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, at what was a difficult time for her. I dont think the £100 theyd offered is a 
fair level of compensation for this. Taking everything into account I think £250 is the correct 
level of compensation.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA. 
And to put things right I require them to pay her £250 compensation for the distress the 
inconvenience the delay in registering her claim has caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman