DRN-3588678
The complaint
Mrs L and Mrs I have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC has declined their request for a 
three-year term extension. To settle the complaint, Mrs L and Mrs I would like Lloyds to 
extend the mortgage term. Mrs L has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 7 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs L and Mrs I being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In June 2010 Mrs L and Mrs I took out an interest-only mortgage with Lloyds over a four-year 
term. They told Lloyds that when the term ended in 2014 they would sell the property and 
downsize. However, Mrs L and Mrs I didnt do so, and in 2016 the term was extended to 
December 2020. There is currently about £350,000 outstanding on the mortgage, on a 
property which Mrs L estimates to be worth about £850,000.
Although Mrs I (who is Mrs Ls mother) is a joint borrower, I understand she doesnt live in 
the property; she joined in the mortgage initially as it wasnt affordable in Mrs Ls sole name. 
However, Mrs I makes no contribution towards the monthly repayments, and I am told she 
and Mrs Ls father live elsewhere.
Mrs L had a conversation with Lloyds on 3 December 2020. Mrs L says she thought Lloyds 
had agreed a three-year term extension. However, she was surprised to receive 
correspondence in October 2021 that the term had ended.
Mrs L complained, saying she thought the term had been extended for two years from 
October 2021  so until October 2023. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said 
that during the call on 3 December 2020 it had been explained that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) had told lenders to delay repayment of expired interest-only mortgages to 
October 2021, due to the pandemic. However, Lloyds said there was never any agreement 
for a further extension.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Mrs L referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that, during the call on 3 December 2020, 
Lloyds had clarified that the term would only be extended to October 2021 and there was no 
other extension agreed by the bank.
Mrs L asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mrs L says that she is exceptionally 
deaf and this made her telephone calls much harder. Mrs L says that long calls with people 
with a disability need to be followed up in writing so mistakes arent made.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I note that Mrs L would like to speak to me before I issue my decision. However, I am 
satisfied I have all the evidence that is required to enable me to reach my decision. I will also 
explain that it is not part of our process for an ombudsman reviewing a case to speak to only 
one of the parties to a complaint before issuing a decision.
I confirm Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation between Mrs L and Lloyds on 
3 December 2020. The investigator has set out in detail what was discussed, so I dont need 
to repeat this. 
At the start Mrs L told the advisor she was hard of hearing, and he said that if there was 
anything that wasnt clear or that she wasnt able to hear properly, all she needed to do was 
to ask him to repeat it. However, nothing in the call suggests Mrs L wasnt able either to hear 
or understand what was discussed  it was a free-flowing conversation between Mrs L and 
the bank.
Having listened to the call, Im satisfied that Lloyds did not agree to a two-year or three-year 
term extension. Lloyds confirmed the term extension put in place by the FCA would end in 
October 2021. Lloyds also recommended Mrs L should take independent financial advice to 
discuss her options.
Mrs L explained that she intended to make the property her permanent home, and wanted to 
use a potential future inheritance as her repayment vehicle. It was explained that this didnt 
meet Lloyds criteria as a suitable repayment vehicle.
An extension on a repayment basis over a term of 20 years was affordable in terms of 
Lloyds criteria, but Mrs L wasnt comfortable with this. The adviser explained that it wasnt 
possible to extend on a part-interest-only, part capital repayment basis, as this was outside 
Lloyds lending policy, although other lenders might agree to this. Mrs L explained that her 
neighbour is a mortgage broker, and so she would speak to him about her options.
Overall, Im not persuaded Lloyds has done anything wrong. Im satisfied Lloyds didnt 
extend the term beyond October 2021. Im also not persuaded, from listening to the call, that 
Lloyds explanation was unclear or that Mrs L didnt understand or didnt hear what Lloyds 
had said to her about the date when the bank would expect repayment of the balance.
In the circumstances, Im unable to uphold the complaint. I appreciate this isnt the outcome 
Mrs L was hoping for. I understand she would like to stay in the property indefinitely, until 
she comes into an inheritance on the death of her parents. But this isnt realistic, as its not a 
viable repayment strategy. The contract between Mrs L and Mrs I and Lloyds has now 
expired, and Lloyds is, I find, entitled to ask for the outstanding balance to be repaid.Lloyds has put recovery action on hold while we have been considering this complaint. Mrs L 
will now need to give careful thought about how this mortgage will be repaid. Mrs L is not 
without options  there is about £500,000 equity in the property. According to online property 
portals, if she sold the property, Mrs L would be able to purchase a three-bedroomed 
property in the same area for between £350,000-£450,000. Mrs L might also be able to 
arrange another mortgage with a new lender over a longer term on a repayment basis that 
fits more comfortably in her budget than the option she discussed with Lloyds.
It would be remiss of me if I did not emphasise to Mrs L the importance of taking immediate, 
proactive steps to repay the mortgage. As a last resort, Lloyds is entitled to take 
repossession action to recover the debt. I sincerely hope that will not be necessary and that 
Mrs L will be able to put a suitable repayment strategy in place at the earliest opportunity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman