DRN-3915892
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
Mr D, jointly with his wife, bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in or around March 
2007. The total cost of membership was £21,610, which was paid for under a finance 
agreement with BPF in Mr Ds sole name. BPF have confirmed the amount borrowed was 
repaid in full and the account closed in November 2008.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Ds because they stem from a 
finance agreement in his sole name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract 
entered into by him and Mrs D, Ill refer to Mr & Mrs D at times throughout this decision.
In February 2021, the CMC made claims on Mr Ds behalf against BPF under sections 75 
and 140a of the CCA. To support the claims, the CMC made the following points:
The timeshare was sold as an investment contrary to section 14 of the 2010 
Timeshare Regulations; 
the timeshare was sold under extreme sales pressure; 
the timeshare supplier knew or ought to have known there was no secondary 
timeshare market to enable its resale; 
the inability to sell the timeshare required Mr and Mrs D to continue to pay annual 
maintenance fees which continued to increase; 
the terms of the agreement were unfair under section 140a of the CCA as 
commission paid to the timeshare supplier wasnt declared; 
the timeshare supplier negligently failed to ascertain whether Mr D could afford the 
finance;
due to the insolvency of the timeshare supplier, the benefits were no longer available 
which constituted a breach of contract.
BPF responded to the claim in a letter. In summary, they said:
Mr Ds claim under section 75 of the CCA wasnt brought in time under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA);
the timeshare agreement was for holiday purposes and despite the supplier entering 
liquidation, Mr and Mrs D were still able to use their timeshare rights to book 
holidays. So, there was no breach of contract; and
as the finance agreement had been repaid in November 2008, Mr Ds claim under 
section 140a of the CCA was not brought in time under the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA).
Mr D remained unhappy, so the CMC referred his concerns to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and reached a view. She thought BPF 
had acted fairly in turning down the claims. She thought the claims Mr D made under 
sections 75 and 140a of the CCA were brought too late under the provisions of the LA. She 
also didnt agree thered been a breach of contract as holidays were still available for Mr and 
Mrs D to book under their timeshare agreement. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view and the CMC asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
And given the facts of this complaint, one of the most relevant pieces of law is the LA, 
because the original transaction took place in 2007 and the claim wasnt made to BPF until 
2021. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The claim under section 75
Mr D says the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the agreement to him and his 
wife when they bought it. 
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against the lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr D had to make that 
claim within six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which 
was in March 2007  because that is when they say they lost out having relied upon the 
alleged false statements of fact.
Mr D made his claim to BPF in February 2021. So, as this is 14 years after he first says they 
lost out, the claim is likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set by the LA. 
The claim under section 140a
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is six 
years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, the trigger point here is 
slightly different. Any relationship between Mr D and BPF continues while the finance 
agreement remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the 
borrowing under it has been repaid.
BPF confirm that Mr D repaid all money owed under the agreement and the account was 
closed on 17 November 2008. So, that is the point at which the relationship between them 
ended. Under section 9 of the LA, Mr D had to make a claim within six years of when the finance agreement/relationship ended. So, as this was more than 12 years after that point, 
his claim here is also likely to have fallen outside of the time limit set by the LA.
Could limitation be postponed?
The LA does postpone the relevant limitation period in certain circumstances. But Ive 
considered the facts of this complaint and Im still not persuaded Mr Ds claims can be said 
to have been made in time. 
Was an adequate affordability assessment completed?
Neither party have provided any specific or further information in relation to this. And I 
havent found anything to suggest there were affordability issues here, such as missed 
payments or other financial difficulties at the time the finance was in place. And Im mindful 
the borrowing has been repaid in any event. So, in the absence of that, I cant reasonably 
say whether reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown that Mr D was more likely 
than not unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent? 
Was there a breach of contract?
The contractual documentation Ive seen from the time of sale is Mr and Mrs Ds purchase 
agreement  which includes details of the resorts and properties the agreement provided 
them with access to. 
The CMC have pointed out that the timeshare supplier are now in liquidation. And as they 
cant provide the service sold, they are in breach of contract. 
BPF told our investigator theyd obtained confirmation from the existing management 
company for the resorts that customers were still able to book holidays and/or be able to list 
their property for resale in accordance with their agreement. In the absence of evidence to 
the contrary, it appears Mr and Mrs D still retain the rights originally afforded to them under 
the timeshare agreement. And because of this, Im not persuaded theres been detriment to 
Mr and Mrs D sufficient to constitute a breach of contract.
Summary
I want to again reassure Mr D that Ive carefully considered everything hes said together 
with all the information and evidence provided. I can also see that he, and his 
representatives, have been provided with additional time to provide further detailed 
submissions in relation to the effects of the LA in this complaint. But those submissions 
havent been forthcoming.
I do realise Mr D will be disappointed. But for the reasons Ive mentioned, I think its likely his 
claims was brought too late under the LA. And because of that, Im not persuaded that his 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman