DRN-1648527
The complaint
Mr A complains that Rational Foreign Exchange Limited (RFE), trading as Xendpay, 
cancelled his order for a money transfer, and would not let him cancel another order.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A ordered a money transfer of a six-figure sum, placing the order 
online through RFEs website. He thought this order was guaranteed to go through, because 
the acknowledgement message on his screen said Your transaction has been agreed. But 
RFE did not process the order. Mr A complains about the order not being completed, and he 
also complains that RFEs communications being unclear and misleading, since the 
transaction had not been agreed after all.
The next day, Mr A placed another order, for a larger sum. But when he realised that this 
was at a less favourable exchange rate than the day before, he tried to cancel the order. He 
says RFE told him there would be a cancellation fee, which Mr A describes as a penalty. Not 
wishing to pay the cancellation fee, he went through with the order, but he delayed sending 
RFE the money for about two weeks, when the exchange rate was better. The order was 
processed at the exchange rate which applied when the order was made, but Mr A argues 
that if he had been allowed to cancel the second order, then he could have made a third 
order when the exchange rate had improved, so he should be reimbursed for the difference 
between the exchange rate when he placed the second order and the rate when he sent 
RFE his money  £3,683.29. He also asked for another £1,000 for his trouble.
RFE did not agree that it had done anything wrong. It said that the first order had been 
placed out of office hours, and that the exchange rate had changed so much by the time 
RFE was able to fulfil the order. Mr A did not accept that explanation, because RFEs 
website describes itself as a 24/7 online payments platform, so all hours should count as 
office hours. RFE also said that there had been no cancellation fee for the second order; all 
it had said was that if Mr A cancelled the order then the exchange rate might have changed 
in the meantime and cause him to lose money. Being dissatisfied with this answer, Mr A 
brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that RFEs terms and conditions had 
made it clear that an order was not effective as soon as it was placed, but was awaiting 
confirmation, and that this had been reiterated in RFEs email acknowledging the first order. 
Its decision to cancel the first order had been a matter for RFEs commercial judgement, with 
which she could not interfere. The next day, when Mr A phoned RFE, he had been told that 
the order had been cancelled, so she did not think that RFEs communication had been 
unclear. Regrettably, she did not address Mr As complaint about his second order.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for this case to be assigned 
to an ombudsman.
I do not uphold the complaint about the first order being cancelled, because of what it says in 
the terms and conditions. Paragraph 7.1 says (bold type in original):
An acknowledgment will appear on screen and sent via email at the time the order 
is placed online, which confirms that we have received your request to place an 
order.
Deal confirmation will be sent via email once the order has been processed. The 
Contract will be legally binding on you when we provide you with the Deal 
Confirmation.
Paragraph 7.5 says:
While we will endeavour to comply with your requests for Services, there may be 
circumstances in which we are unable to do so. Therefore, we always reserve the 
right to refuse to accept your Orders and to do so without giving you any reasons 
and without incurring any liability to you
I therefore dont think RFE contravened its terms and conditions or breached a contract with 
Mr A when it declined to process his order.
I recognise that the website describes itself as being available 24/7, but most orders placed 
out of business hours are still processed. Orders can be placed at any time, but are only 
processed during RFEs business hours. RFE has explained that it only declines such orders 
in cases where the exchange rate changes have been unusually volatile during the period 
between the order being placed and when it is processed. 
I agree with Mr As point about the acknowledgement on his screen being unclear, in that it 
describes the transaction as agreed, which seems stronger than a mere acknowledgement 
and could certainly seem like confirmation. But while this is arguably misleading, it does not 
appear to have affected the outcome, or misled Mr A into doing anything differently to what 
he would have done if the message had only said acknowledged or received. He would 
still have found out the next day that the order had been declined, and nothing different 
would have happened in the meantime.
On learning that the first order had been declined, Mr A placed the second order, for nearly 
double the amount of the first. Shortly afterwards he changed his mind, because the 
exchange rate was less favourable than it had been the day before. He therefore asked to 
cancel the order, with a view to placing a third order once circumstances had improved.
Paragraph 8 of the terms and conditions deals with cancellations. It says that an order 
placed before it is confirmed and binding may be cancelled free of charge. After that, a 
cancellation fee may be incurred. It is not clear to me whether or not Mr A would have been 
charged a fee if he had insisted on cancelling the second order, but I do not think I need to 
decide that point. It is clear that it was Mr As decision to place the order, and it was his 
decision not to cancel it. Its clear that he regretted placing the order, and that he persevered 
with it reluctantly, but I do not agree that those things are RFEs fault. He was not 
misinformed about the exchange rate on the day he placed the order, so I dont think it would 
be fair to require RFE to fulfil the order at some other rate.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman