DRN-2619374
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of I, a limited company, that HSBC UK Bank plc charged the 
company for a failed transfer payment. He would like the amount charged refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
HSBC has given us various pieces of evidence to show that Mr A should have known 
he would risk a foreign exchange loss if a payment couldnt go through. And that the 
transfer might not show up on his account for up to 24 hours.
I found HSBCs evidence persuasive. Its terms and conditions clearly state that if a 
foreign currency payment cant be made, as was the case here, that the payment will 
be reversed using HSBCs exchange rate at the time. And it warns that if the 
exchange rate has changed the reversed payment might be different to the initial 
payment made. I think HSBC made the correct charge according to its own terms 
and conditions.
HSBC has also shown that when payments are made in a foreign currency a warning 
message shows on screen advising of the same risk as outlined in the terms and 
conditions referred to above.
I accept Mr A has shown that when completing a transaction online the screen 
doesnt show the transaction within the pending transfers immediately. But HSBC 
has shown us that on the transfers page there is a ? tab explaining there might be a 
possible delay of up to 24 hours in balances being shown in accounts. And of course 
Mr A could have called HSBC to see if the first payment had gone through or not.
I  think the information was there for Mr A to see. As I have no evidence that HSBC 
has done anything wrong, I cant reasonably ask it refund the charge it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman