DRN-2703971
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy, esure Insurance
Limited didnt offer him enough for his written-off car and provided poor service to him.
What happened
esure relied on the valuations it got from four national trade guides to arrive at a market
value offer for Mr Hs car. He thought the lowest valuation should be removed, in order to
increase the settlement sum. And although esure had paid him compensation for its poor
service, Mr H also wanted an apology from it, plus a refund of his premium.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. She thought esure had acted
reasonably by offering Mr H £200 for its poor service and delays. But she thought it should
also offer him an apology. In terms of the valuation, she found that the lowest figure obtained
by esure had increased by £2,159 by the time she checked it. She thought it wasnt
reasonable for esure to rely on the initial figure it got from the guide in question. The average
of all four guides (including the increased valuation) was £533.50 higher than esure had
offered Mr H. The investigator said esure should pay him that sum, plus interest.
esure didnt accept the investigators view. It said it had followed our guidance and had
obtained trade guide valuations that were correct at the time the offer was made. It didnt
think Mr Hs case should be upheld against it in these circumstances. It said if the valuation
had reduced over time, we wouldnt be suggesting the offer should be reduced.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Mr H reported the accident to esure on 28 February 2020 and had complained about the
valuation, plus the delay and the poor contact on its part, by 20 March 2020. I dont think
three weeks is necessarily an excessive time in which to deal with a disputed valuation. But
esure has accepted that the initial decision to write the car off should have been made more
quickly. So in this case there was some avoidable delay on its part.
Theres also evidence that Mr H was given conflicting information by esures advisors and
was asked more than once for the same details. In error, he was asked about the settlement
cheque well before an offer was made for his car. A promised call from an engineer wasnt
returned, and Mr H had to chase for updates. I think the contact from esure was below the
expected standard, but I think it recognised that in paying Mr H £200 compensation.
Mr H says he wants an apology from esure as well, but in its final response letter, it said the
compensation it offered was its way of saying sorry. As I think it made a reasonable attempt
to put right that part of Mr Hs complaint, I dont think it needs to do anything more about the
issue of poor service.
I dont think Mr H is entitled to a refund of his premium, because he made a successful claim
on the policy. As esure dealt with the claim, it carried out its part of the annual contract with
Mr H, so it was entitled to keep the full premium.
esure followed our guidelines in trying to establish the likely market value of Mr Hs car. It
used the four valuations that were available to it at the time its engineer did his research. We
usually say that if one of the figures shown in the trade guides is out of line with the others,
the insurer should disregard it and base the valuation on the average of the other three. In
this case, there was a difference of just over £3,000 between all four valuations. Mr H says
there was a gap of £1,068 between the lowest valuation (which he thinks should be
disregarded) and the next valuation. But there was a gap of £1,105 between the second and
third valuations, too. I think it was reasonable for esure to conclude that as all four valuations
were fairly evenly spread, it was acceptable to take an average of all four of them.
When the investigator checked the figures set out in the trade guides, the lowest valuation
found at the time by esure had risen substantially. Using the new figure, the average of all
four trade guides was £533.50 more than esure had offered Mr H. But I dont think its fair to
uphold the complaint against esure based on that. I dont think we can say that say that
esure acted unreasonably in using the valuations that were available to it at the time (shortly
after the date of loss) to reach an average sum to offer Mr H.
Whilst its open to esure to increase its offer to Mr H if it thinks that would be appropriate, as 
I dont think it has acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure didnt comment, but Mr H 
didnt accept them. He didnt explain why, except to say that in his opinion, I hadnt read the 
file properly and had simply sided with esure.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr H that I read the file and reviewed all the information provided by him and by 
esure. Having done so, I thought esure had shown that it acted reasonably in this case. In 
particular, I thought it had followed our established approach in valuing Mr Hs car - and it 
had also dealt with the service issues he raised by paying him a fair sum in compensation. 
As Mr H hasnt provided any further information to persuade me that I should change my 
provisional view, I still dont think his complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
27 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman