DRN-2904715
The complaint
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says Mr A was given unsuitable advice by Legal & General Assurance Society 
Limited to invest in a unit trust and a capital investment bond in 1997.
What happened
The CMC first complained to L&G in 2020. It said the funds within the unit trust provided too 
much risk for a first time investor. Further, the total investment represented too great of a 
proportion of Mr As savings at that time. 
L&G rejected the complaint. It said Mr A had approached L&G with a view to investing 
£10,000 in order to achieve a better return than his cash accounts were offering over the 
medium to long term. He also declined the recommendation of considering a Personal 
Equity Plan as he preferred an investment fund with switch capabilities. 
L&G said it took the view that Mr A was actively seeking investments of a medium/high risk 
with the potential to earn greater returns than his existing savings or endowment-based 
investments. And the two investments proposed to achieve this aim were reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
The CMC said Mr A remained unhappy with that outcome, and accordingly it referred his 
complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. He said that 
whilst there was limited information because of the passage of time, L&G was able to supply 
the fact find information that Mr A had signed as correct. Looking at his circumstances, 
objectives and needs, he felt the recommendations for the two investments were a 
reasonable means of achieving Mr As stated aims.  
The CMC said Mr A disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
It had no fresh comments to make but it wanted to reiterate that the three funds within the 
unit trust represented too much risk for Mr A. 
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am also of the view that this 
complaint cannot succeed and I will summarise my reasons out for that below.  
Unfortunately, because of the passage of time L&G does not retain full records of the advice 
from 1997. I do not believe this is unreasonable, given the sale was almost 25 years ago, 
and L&G has acted in accordance with relevant data protection rules. Consequently, there is 
no confirmed evidence of the advice and recommendations made by the adviser in the form 
of reasons why documentation, other than what is combined within the fact find. 
Nonetheless, there is some evidence available in the form of recollections from both parties 
and other wider circumstances in the form of a signed handwritten fact find document dated 
12 September 1997. At that time businesses were required to produce fact find 
documentation showing that any recommendations made were supported by evidence of the 
customers needs and priorities, and that a suitable product had been recommended in the 
context of what was known about the customers personal circumstances. Where there is 
conflicting evidence, such as between the documentary evidence and what is being said by 
the parties now, I will determine what I believe is most likely on the balance of probabilities.
At the time, Mr A was recorded as being aged 39 with no dependants. He earned £1,650 per 
month after deductions with a disposable monthly income of £600. Mr S had an endowment 
savings policy and no documented debts or other financial liabilities. He was recorded as 
wanting to invest £10,000 with a higher risk appetite in order to achieve greater returns than 
he could in savings accounts. Mr A declined to set out what his other savings were, other 
than to confirm he had sufficient emergency funds available to him. 
When considering the investments, the adviser recommended a PEP to Mr A, but he 
rejected this in favour of the capital investment bond because he had control over the funds 
invested in, and he could actively switch them as required. It seems to me, on balance, that 
Mr A wanted to place his capital into investments where there was a greater possibility of 
achieving higher returns  and that he appreciated he would be taking a medium to high risk 
in order to do so. I say this since Mr A signed the fact find documentation, declaring that he 
was satisfied his needs had been assessed and he had received appropriate 
recommendations based on those needs.  
I cannot make findings on whether Mr A was left with sufficient capital on deposit, because 
the CMC has not set out any evidence of Mr As position at the time and there is no 
information that Ive seen on file relating to exact amounts  this isnt surprising given Mr A 
declined to provide that information to L&Gs adviser. 
But, I can see that it was discussed with the adviser as notes were made about it, and Mr A 
had a healthy amount of disposable income should he need to consider making contributions 
into further savings vehicles at a lower end of the risk spectrum.  I also believe Mr A had 
sufficient means, without liabilities or dependants, to take a risk of the nature set out by the 
recommendations.  
I havent seen any clear evidence that would lead me to conclude think the amount invested 
was inappropriate or that a split across the two types of investment was unreasonable for the 
adviser to suggest. Mr A wanted the flexibility of the particular bond, and the mix of funds 
within the unit trust do not, in my view, pose too much risk for Mr A merely because he was a 
first time investor into products of this nature.  
When completing the fact find, discussions took place about the level of risk Mr A was 
prepared to take with his investment. There will be a point at which all investors undertake 
investment decisions for the first time. What I need to consider is whether L&Gs adviser 
took sufficient care to assess Mr A requirements, his financial circumstances, investment 
objectives and that the adviser used the fact find information to make suitable 
recommendation(s). In the circumstances taking particular note of the limited information 
we have available- I believe the adviser likely did so.  
I therefore consider on balance that Mr A likely wanted to go ahead with his combined 
investments and that on the information Ive seen, the advice was suitable in the circumstances noting his financial situation and recorded investment objectives. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman