DRN-4139615
The complaint
Mr P complains, via a professional representative, about the advice given by Intelligent 
Financial Advice Limited (IFAL) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr P approached IFAL in February 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
IFALs records show it first spoke to Mr P on 16 February 2017. He explained his current 
situation, that he was looking to retire at age 60 and the assets he had available. 
A fact-find was completed to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. 
It was recorded that Mr P was 59, single, in good health with no dependents. He was 
employed, with his income exceeding his outgoings by over £600 per month. He owned his 
own home, mortgage free and had no other debts or liabilities. Mr P also owned a 33% 
share of his brothers property. He had investments valued at approximately £24,000 and an 
emergency savings fund of £20,000.
Mr P expected to receive approximately £7,500 per year in state pension from age 66. 
Details of three private pensions held by Mr P were also recorded. He was a member of a 
money purchase pension through his employer. He was making an increased contribution to 
this pension of approximately £2,040 per month, with his employer also contributing £680 
per month. And it was noted this pension was valued at roughly £110,000 in February 2017.
Mr P also held two defined benefit pensions. One was from a period of employment between 
1989 and 1996 which had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £140,998 as of June 
2016. In the notes about his pensions, it was recorded that Mr P did not intend to transfer 
this pension.
His other, larger DB scheme pension was in relation to 18 years of employment from 1996. 
This had a CETV of £340,556. It was noted that this was the pension Mr P intended to 
transfer and wanted advice about. And this is the pension that was then reviewed.
The fact find said Mr P intended to retire as soon as possible. He expected to need an 
income of around £15,000 per year in retirement to maintain his standard of living but noted 
additional funds could be required for non-regular expenditure on occasions. He wanted to 
draw this income from a combination of his pensions and savings. 
The fact-find also included a section of questions in order for IFAL to assess Mr Ps attitude 
to risk (ATR).
The fact-find was signed by Mr P on 5 March 2017 to say that the information contained was 
correct. And IFAL says this was actually sent to Mr P and completed by him independently, 
ahead of later discussions.
On 19 April 2017, IFAL carried out two transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports. These gave 
an indication of the likelihood of Mr P being able to replicate the benefits the DB scheme 
offered, by a transfer to two different providers. The reports both set out that at age 65, the 
normal scheme retirement age, Mr P was estimated to be entitled to a full annual pension 
starting at £15,976 under the DB scheme. The reports included a calculation of the critical 
yield - the annual growth rate required of a new pension to allow Mr P to purchase 
equivalent benefits that would match the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme at 
retirement. The critical yield to match the benefits of the DB scheme at age 65 were 6.78% 
and 7.54% depending on which of the two providers IFAL compared was chosen.
Ive also seen evidence that, on the same day, IFAL obtained illustrations and retirement 
modellers from the two pension providers that it considered in the TVAS reports. It also 
obtained annuity quotes, showing what level of guaranteed pension could be taken outside 
of the scheme.
IFAL has provided notes of a follow up meeting held on 20 April 2017. The notes say the 
content of the fact find was discussed, with it being recorded that Mr Ps savings were in fact 
worth approximately £200,000. IFAL said it had assessed Mr Ps ATR as moderate. The 
discussion then turned to the DB scheme pension. The notes say that the advantages  
such as the escalating guaranteed income  and the disadvantages  the relative inflexibility 
of the benefits  were discussed. It says the critical yield was discussed as well as 
retirement modellers and quotes for immediate annuities. The notes said that IFALs 
recommendation was not to transfer, because the income from the DB scheme was 
guaranteed for life, regardless of how inflexible it was. And that meant that if Mr P wanted to 
transfer, this would need to be done on an insistent customer basis. But the notes go on to 
indicate that the merits of the two pension providers compared in the TVAS reports were 
then also discussed with Mr P.
An insistent customer disclaimer was completed at the time of the meeting. This said IFAL 
had advised Mr P not to proceed with the transfer. But he had decided to proceed against 
this advice and, having made that decision, wanted IFAL to recommend a suitable pension 
provider. The form stated the provider that IFAL recommended. Mr P signed this document 
on 20 April 2017. It was also signed by an independent witness. But the person that signed 
as a witness was also a financial adviser associated with IFAL who I understand was party 
to the advice and subsequently went on to provide ongoing advice to Mr P. I dont think it 
was reasonable to imply that this person was independent. 
An application form was then signed and completed, also on 20 April 2017, for Mr P to 
transfer out of his DB scheme and take out a personal pension with one of the two providers 
IFAL had considered. Forms instructing the trustees of the DB scheme to release funds were 
also completed with Mr P on the same day. 
IFAL emailed Mr P on 28 April 2017 saying, as agreed, it hadnt submitted the application to 
give Mr P a chance to think over the transfer. So, it asked if he wanted to still go ahead. Mr P 
replied on 2 May 2017 and said he wished to go ahead. And Ive seen evidence that IFAL 
sent the application forms on the same day.
On 4 May 2017, IFAL wrote to Mr P. It confirmed that it had submitted his application for a 
personal pension. It also enclosed a suitability report which it said confirmed the reasons for 
the potentially suitable recommendation which we have agreed to continue with on an 
insistent customer basis.
The suitability report recapped Mr Ps circumstances largely in line with the fact find. It again 
noted though that Mr P had £200,000 of savings, rather than £20,000. It said Mr Ps 
objectives were to retire that year and have flexibility in terms of how he could draw his 
benefits from this scheme to meet his income needs for the first few years of retirement before his other DB scheme came into payment from age 65, estimated to provide £9,600 
per year, and he began receiving his state pension from age 66. It also said Mr P was 
interested in leaving any remaining pension benefits to his siblings and nieces. It re-capped 
the benefits of the DB scheme. And IFAL said it thought the critical yield of 6.78% was 
unlikely to be achieved.
IFAL said its recommendation was That you do not transfer the [DB] Scheme due to the 
guaranteed income you would be giving up. But it went on to say However, you have 
insisted that you wish to transfer out of the [DB] Scheme because a flexible personal 
Pension meets your priority of being able to take flexible income payments in the early years 
until your [second DB pension] and State Pension begins. I have therefore, agreed to treat 
you as a potentially suitable insistent customer because we have used cash flow 
forecasting and established that there is a good chance the transferred benefits and your 
existing Pensions and assets will meet your income needs in retirement. I will help you to 
transfer the money out of the [DB] Scheme and advise you on a suitable provider to look 
after your money.
IFAL went on to explain it had recommended a specific pension provider and managed fund 
which it felt was in line with Mr Ps conservative / moderate ATR. It was also recommended 
that Mr P receive ongoing servicing, at a cost. Which I understand he agreed to.
Mr P complained in 2022, via his representative, to IFAL about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. His representative said IFAL had contacted him unprompted about a pension review. 
They said Mr P had been advised to transfer to a personal pension as this would be more 
beneficial and hed make more money by transferring. But they felt IFAL hadnt considered 
Mr Ps circumstances, the recommendation was not suitable for him and IFAL hadnt made 
the risks clear. 
IFAL didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had approached it for advice and had 
formed an opinion about transferring his DB scheme to meet his needs before taking advice. 
IFAL said it had advised Mr P not to transfer but he had chosen to do so against its advice. It 
had subsequently recommended a provider to him, and it felt that recommendation was 
suitable.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. He said when hed spoken to IFAL it had only 
focused on the positives of a transfer and hadnt discussed the risks in any great detail. He 
also said hed been told he needed to complete the insistent client declaration for legal 
reasons at the end of the process, with the CETV shortly due to expire. He confirmed he had 
retired within a year of the advice but, if IFAL hadnt emphasised the positives of the transfer, 
hed have likely looked to take benefits under the DB scheme to achieve the same outcome.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He recommended that it be upheld and 
that IFAL compensate Mr P for any loss the transfer had led to. The Investigator said he 
thought it was unlikely Mr P would improve on his DB scheme benefits by transferring and 
he didnt think Mr P had a need to transfer as he couldve achieved his objectives through 
other means. But, while IFAL said it had advised against a transfer, he thought the process it 
followed was flawed and didnt allow Mr P to make an informed decision about whether to 
proceed as an insistent client. And he felt, if clearer information had been given, Mr P would 
not have proceeded with the transfer.
IFAL said it did not agree with the Investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint was 
referred to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFAL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. This includes COBS 19.1.6G which says that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable, and should only be 
considered if it can be clearly demonstrated that the transfer was in the consumers best 
interests. 
Was a transfer suitable for Mr P? 
IFAL carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator). This said, in 
order to purchase equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme guaranteed to provide at age 
65, Mr Ps new pension would need to grow by 6.78% per year (the critical yield that would 
need to be achieved). Or indeed 7.54% had he chosen the other provider IFAL compared. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the point of the advice was 3.1% per year for 5 years to retirement. 
Which wouldve been the case if Mr P took benefits at age 65. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%. Suggesting achieving the required critical yield was unlikely. And 
indeed, I note that IFAL acknowledged in the suitability report that a consistent return of 
6.78% was unlikely to be achievable.
Mr P was interested in retiring imminently at the time of the advice. Early retirement was possible under the DB scheme. And Ive seen a copy of a quote from December 2016, that 
said at that time Mr P could take immediate retirement under the scheme and draw either an 
annual pension starting at £11,412.64 or take tax-free cash (TFC) of £54,458.35 and a 
reduced starting pension of £8,168.75 per year. 
By comparison, using the CETV he couldve purchased an annuity paying £7,799.04 per 
year. Or taken tax-free cash of £85,660.54 and an annuity paying £5,822.04. 
There would be little point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here I 
think Mr P was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme 
as a result of transferring. 
IFAL noted that Mr P was said to be interested in being able to access his pension flexibly, 
to meet his stated income needs of £15,000 per year in retirement until his other guaranteed 
pensions began. 
The TVAS report estimated that the pension Mr P would be entitled to at age 65 would start 
at £15,976 per year. The suitability report said that Mr P could take his benefits from age 60 
without incurring an actuarial reduction. So, this suggested that Mr P couldve deferred his 
retirement by less than a year and met his income needs from his DB scheme alone. 
However, Im not sure the statement in the suitability report that this could be taken without 
actuarial reduction from age 60 is accurate. The scheme information suggests benefits could 
be drawn from age 62 without actuarial reduction but only for active members  whereas 
Mr P was a deferred member.
But this notwithstanding I still dont think Mr P needed flexibility to meet this goal. As Ive 
said, Mr P couldve drawn immediate pension benefits under the DB scheme, as Ive set out. 
These benefits wouldnt have been sufficient to meet his income needs on their own. But 
Mr P was recorded as having a significant amount of savings  in excess of £200,000. 
Which he couldve used to supplement the benefits from his DB scheme to meet his income 
needs until his other DB scheme came into payment. And I note the fact-find even 
suggested that this was Mr Ps intention, to supplement his pension income with savings.
And in fact, given Mr Ps level of savings and relatively modest income needs, he couldve 
used his savings to meet his income needs entirely for the five years until the normal 
retirement age of this DB scheme and his other DB pension. Which wouldve then combined 
to more than exceed his expected needs. 
And that is not even accounting for the money purchase scheme he was a member of 
through his employer at the time of the advice. This couldve been accessed flexibly through 
early retirement and, based on its value and before even accounting for further growth, 
wouldve been enough to meet his income needs until age 65, had Mr P wanted to leave his 
savings intact.
So, I dont think Mr P needed to transfer to meet his income needs.
I note that IFAL said another of Mr Ps objectives was to potentially be able to leave his 
pension fund as a legacy to his siblings and nieces. But while death benefits are an emotive 
subject the priority here was to advise Mr P about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. And I dont think transferring for this purpose was in his best interests given he 
was likely to see his pension benefits reduce  particularly when he couldve taken life 
insurance to provide a legacy to his extended family had he so chosen.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ps best interests here.Was Mr P insistent and would he have acted differently?
In February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what steps it 
expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are 3 key steps, which 
it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must 
be clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If 
the advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not 
suitable (see COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that he 
or she is acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clearer.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good and 
poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the receiving 
product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome in a 
separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected IFAL to have been aware of this 
and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the regulators 
expectations.
IFAL says it agreed that a transfer was not suitable and didnt recommend a transfer to Mr P. 
But he chose to proceed despite that advice, as an insistent client. The summary notes of 
the meeting on 20 April 2017 do include a line that its recommendation is not to transfer. And 
the same is repeated in the suitability report. But I think there were flaws in the process that 
IFAL followed that undermined this.
The meeting of 20 April 2017, which was attended by two financial advisers associated with 
IFAL and Mr P, was where the recommendation was first discussed. The meeting notes 
indicate that Mr Ps circumstances and objectives were discussed, comparisons of the 
benefits the DB scheme offered with alternatives talked about and that IFAL then said it 
didnt recommend a transfer. So, this would appear to suggest a potentially balanced 
discussion taking place. But Mr Ps recollections are that the positives of transferring were 
given significantly greater emphasis that the negatives. 
The reasons for not recommending a transfer recorded in the meeting notes are also sparse 
 simply that the income was guaranteed. There was no other commentary recorded at that 
point about the reasons for IFALs recommendation. But, as Ive explained above, there were several other things that in my view meant a transfer was not in Mr Ps best interests. 
And these shouldve been considered and explained to Mr P so that he could make a fully 
informed decision. And I cant say that they were at that stage.
The notes also indicate that, immediately on saying a transfer was not recommended, it was 
explained to Mr P that he could proceed on an insistent client basis. And Mr P has said that 
this was positioned as simply being part of the process that he needed to follow. This being 
presented immediately as part of the same discussion, didnt in my view provide Mr P with 
sufficient time to consider the recommendation itself.
The notes also say that the meeting then went on to discuss potential providers for Mr Ps 
new pension and said that the two advisers had chosen a provider that they believed was 
suitable for Mr P. This recommendation of a provider having been prepared in advance of 
the meeting and then immediately put to Mr P, as part of the same discussion, in my view 
undermined the significance of the recommendation not to transfer.
During the same meeting Mr P completed application forms to enable the transfer. And he 
was asked to sign a pre-prepared declaration that he wished to proceed on an insistent 
client basis. The fact that this declaration had clearly been drafted in advance of the meeting 
indicates IFAL always intended to give Mr P the immediate option to disregard its advice. I 
dont think by doing that it was acting in his interests. And completing the application forms 
at the meeting again in my view undermined the apparent recommendation.
The declaration that Mr P completed didnt include any explanation as to his reasons for 
wanting to proceed. Nor did it ask Mr P for an explanation in his own words why he wanted 
to go ahead. And there is no evidence that IFAL sought clarification as to why he was 
apparently disregarding its advice or that it challenged these reasons. Given the regulator 
says the starting position is to assume a transfer from a DB transfer will be unsuitable, and 
IFAL said it thought that was the case here, Id have expected to see some evidence of this 
happening. Because by not, at the very least, recording Mr Ps reasons or addressing these, 
I dont think IFAL was acting in his best interests.
IFAL did follow up with Mr P by email to ask him if he wanted to proceed. But by that point it 
hadnt provided any further information for him to consider. And Mr Ps response to this was 
a one line email saying he did want to go ahead. No further reasons were sought from him 
and IFAL made no attempt to handle his apparent objections to its initial advice.
The other thing that I think was a significant flaw in the process that IFAL followed is that the 
suitability report was not provided until after all of this had happened and the application had 
been submitted. So, Mr P wasnt given the option to consider IFALs written advice at all, 
prior to a decision to proceed on an insistent client basis having been made and the 
application submitted. And even when the suitability report was provided, it referred to the 
recommendations as being that a transfer was potentially suitable because IFAL though 
there is a good chance the transferred benefits and your existing Pensions and assets will 
meet your income needs in retirement. The report also didnt provide any real further 
context why the transfer was not in Mr Ps best interests. 
I think a fairer process wouldve been for IFAL to present its advice to Mr P, verbally and 
through a suitability report, and allow him the opportunity to go away and consider this. If he 
had then come back to IFAL, it couldve explored his reasons for still wanting to proceed and 
looked to address these, given it says it didnt recommend a transfer. And then, if Mr P still 
wanted to proceed and it agreed to assist, given a recommendation about a potentially 
suitable provider.
But the process IFAL followed here means I dont think it gave Mr P sufficient information about its recommendation to make an informed decision. Or sufficient time to think about 
this. It then in my view undermined that recommendation by immediately presenting what it 
deemed to be a suitable new pension provider. Which was further compounded by later 
referring to this as a potentially suitable transfer. And by presenting the option of 
proceeding on an insistent client basis, and preparing that option in advance, I think shows 
that IFAL made it altogether far too easy for Mr P to agree that he was an insistent client 
rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer. So, 
I dont think he truly could make an informed decision about this. And I dont think therefore 
he can reasonably be said to have truly been an insistent client.
Would Mr P have acted differently?
While I think there were failings in the advice process by IFAL, I have to consider whether 
Mr P would've gone ahead anyway as an insistent client, if clearer advice had been provided 
and a more appropriate process followed.
IFAL has said that Mr P approached it with the idea of transferring his DB scheme pension 
already in mind. It also says hed obtained a transfer value before contacting it. And in the 
fact-find, which IFAL says he completed independently, Mr P referred to his DB scheme as 
the pension he intended to transfer. But IFALs role wasnt to facilitate what Mr P mightve 
thought he wanted, it was to advise him on what was in his best interests.
The meeting notes refer to the reason for the discussion as being Mr P wanting to establish 
if a transfer out of the scheme would benefit him and to review his pension to see if it is right 
for him. The suitability report also refers to the meeting between the parties having been 
arranged because Mr P would like to know what benefits the Pension Scheme provides, 
how the Pension Scheme compares to a Personal Pension and the options available to you. 
So, these dont reflect that he was as unequivocal in his intentions as IFAL now claims.
From the information Ive seen Mr P doesnt appear to have been an experienced investor. 
Or that he had any specific knowledge relating to pensions, above that of a normal 
consumer.  And as Ive said, I cant see that IFAL did enough, or anything for that matter, to 
address why Mr P apparently wanted to proceed with the transfer against its 
recommendation. If this had been properly addressed, and a more appropriate process -
which made the advice clearer and allowed Mr P to make an informed decision having fully 
considered the advice - followed, Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against IFALs advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ps preconceived thoughts on transferring, if he had any, were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests, with all of the reasons for this having been explained. Rather I think more fully 
formed advice wouldve carried significant weight if hed been given the appropriate 
opportunity to consider this, rather than immediately being directed towards proceeding as 
an insistent client. So, I dont think Mr P would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
As a result, I think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld and that IFAL should compensate him 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. IFAL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand Mr P retired at age 60 and, in the circumstances, I think hed have 
likely drawn benefits from the DB scheme at that point had he remained in the scheme. So, I 
think compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFAL should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts IFALs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IFAL may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Intelligent Financial 
Advice Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Intelligent Financial Advice Limited pays Mr P the balance.If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Intelligent Financial 
Advice Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman