DRN-3506780
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) delayed repairing his 
property under his home emergency cover following a roof leak caused by slipped tiles. He 
also complains that they provided him with a poor service. 
Another business has carried out the complaint handling for this complaint. But Ill only refer 
to RSA in my decision. 
What happened
Mr Y said he contacted RSA on 30 December 2020 to report a leak in his roof. He said the 
adviser he spoke to didnt understand that although his property is three storeys high  
including the attic  the issue related to missing tiles on the second storey roof. The claim 
was accepted and RSA assigned a contractor to survey the damage. 
Mr Y followed up on his claim on 31 December 2020. RSA told him that the contractor theyd 
assigned has passed on the job as they couldnt work on three-storey properties. RSA said 
theyd look for another contractor who could complete the work. Mr Y called RSA again on 1 
January 2021 for an update. They told him there were delays due to the bank holiday and 
the difficulty in finding a contractor who could work on a three-storey house.
RSA found out on 2 January 2021 that another of their contractors might be able to attend 
the property on 4 January 2021, dependent on the weather. They updated Mr Y when he 
called then for an update on the same day. They also told Mr Y that he could find his own 
roofer to complete the repair if he preferred, but he didnt want to do this. 
On 4 January 2021 the second contractor told RSA that they couldnt complete the repair 
without scaffolding, due to the number of storeys. RSA called Mr Y again on 5 January 2021 
to explain the situation. They said that he if he put scaffolding up, they would do the work. 
They told him his buildings and contents insurer might cover the cost of the scaffolding. 
Mr Y didnt agree with RSA as he said that the issue related to the leak was on the second 
floor.  He sent in pictures to evidence this. So he didnt consider that scaffolding should be 
needed. And he complained to RSA, as he wasnt happy with the delays and the poor 
service. 
RSA spoke again to Mr Y on 12 January 2021. He told them his property was still damaged. 
And that hed found the claims team to be rude, and that theyd failed to keep him updated. 
RSA called their first contractor to ask them to confirm why theyd said scaffolding was 
needed, given the issue was on the second storey. The contractor said that the property was 
still classed as three storeys. RSA also asked their second contractor to reconsider the work 
required.
On 13 January 2021 the second contractor agreed to attend the property to assess the 
claim. They said that the picture of the property suggested that it was taller than a regular 
two-storey house, which they said was usually about 4.7 metres high. They said that their 
insurance only let them work from a ladder for properties slightly taller than an average two- 
storey property. And otherwise they would need a different form of access. 
RSA told Mr Y what their contractors had told them. Mr Y was unhappy, as hed previously 
been told the problem was related to the number of storeys, not a specific height. RSA again 
gave Mr Y the option of using his own contractor, but he didnt want to do this as he thought 
it might be difficult to get his money back. RSA tried unsuccessfully to source a contractor 
who could carry out the work. I understand that at this stage, Mr Y agreed to find his own 
contractor.
Mr Y said he found a contractor who could do the required work without scaffolding. They 
sent a quote and a breakdown of costs to RSA on 19 January 2021. RSA agreed to pay Mr 
Ys contractor directly so he wouldnt be out of pocket. 
RSA issued their first final response to the complaint on 4 March 2021. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. They apologised for the delays. But said that theyd been caused by the poor 
weather and the health and safety needs of the contractors due to the height of the property.
For various reasons, Mr Ys contractor was delayed from doing the work until 15 March 
2021, when the repairs were completed.
Mr Y was still unhappy, so RSA issued a further final response on 8 April 2021 after the work 
had been completed. They didnt uphold the complaint. They acknowledged that Mr Ys 
property wasnt a three-storey property for the purposes of the claim, but said that their 
contractors hadnt been able to work on it without scaffolding as it was above average height 
for a two-storey house. They acknowledged that Mr Ys contractor had been able to 
complete the repairs without scaffolding.
RSA also covered Mr Ys concerns about the service hed received from the claims team. 
RSA said theyd reviewed the calls hed had with them. They said they felt that more 
empathy couldve been shown to Mr Y, given the delays hed experienced. They said theyd 
provided feedback to the call handler in question. They said that Mr Y himself had told the 
original call handler that his property was three-storeys. And that this had caused confusion.
Mr Y wasnt happy with this response, so referred his complaint to this service. In addition to 
his other complaint points, he felt RSA had tried to close his complaint down without his 
permission. He said the leak had caused water damage to his bedroom ceiling and that hed 
not been able to sleep in the bedroom. He said this had been inconvenient. He said hed had 
to chase RSA for updates. He wanted RSA to refund the £25 excess hed paid and to give 
him compensation for the inconvenience theyd caused.
Our investigator considered that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr Y had 
experienced delays which couldve been avoided. He didnt consider that RSA had gathered 
enough information at the start of the claim. And felt that if the specific location of the leak 
had been confirmed earlier on, an appropriate engineer wouldve been found sooner. He 
also felt that Mr Y hadnt been kept updated throughout the course of his claim. And that he 
hadnt always been treated with empathy. He thought that a fair amount of compensation 
under the circumstances would be £100.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that RSA couldve found 
out earlier that Mr Ys property wasnt really three-storeys high for the purposes of his claim. 
Ill explain why. 
Mr Ys position is that RSA failed to understand that the problem was connected to his 
second storey, not his third storey. He considers that this caused delays and led to 
prolonged inconvenience for him. He also feels that RSA didnt update him as often as they 
should have. And that they didnt always treat him empathetically. 
RSAs position is that none of their listed contractors were able to carry out the required work 
without scaffolding  which the policy wouldnt cover the cost of  due to the height of the 
property. Therefore they dont agree that they were responsible for the delay to the repairs. 
They acknowledge that they couldve shown Mr Y more empathy in one particular call hed 
had with them, but that they had shown him empathy in other calls. They didnt agree that 
they didnt regularly update him. They said thered been a total of 46 calls to and from Mr Y, 
which they felt showed that theyd kept him informed of the process. 
RSA have provided a number of calls to this service, including the one Mr Y said showed a 
lack of empathy. Ive listened to all the calls provided. Ive also reviewed all of the other 
information provided by both parties.
RSA also said that they hadnt needed to get more information from Mr Y during the initial 
assessment as he had clearly answered the questions theyd asked him. They shared a list 
of the questions that were asked. Ill cover this point first.
Should RSA have realised sooner that the roof damage could be repaired with no 
scaffolding?
From what Ive seen, the questions RSA required their call handlers to ask didnt cover 
identifying the storey at which the roof damage had occurred. RSA did identify that the 
property was a three storey one, and that the roof damage was causing a leak to a bedroom 
ceiling. They said that Mr Y had told them his property was a three-storey one, and that this 
had caused the confusion.
During the initial claim call, RSA asked Mr Y how many storeys his property had. And Mr Y 
told them it had three. However, RSA didnt ask any further questions about the location of 
the damage.
Mr Y did actually explain exactly where the damage was located on a call to RSA the day 
after the initial claim call. He said:
The problems on the normal house roof. The roofer doesnt need to get onto the dormer to 
resolve the issue. 
Mr Y also told RSA on 5 January 2021 that the damaged tiles were only on the second 
storey. And that there was no issue with his dormer (third storey) roof. 
From what Ive seen, RSA struggled to understand what had happened. This mustve been 
very frustrating to Mr Y. However, RSA did ask two different contractors to assess the 
damage. Both gave what I consider reasonable reasons for not being able to carry out the 
work without scaffolding. RSA also said that none of their listed contractors wouldve been 
able to carry out the repairs without scaffolding given the height of the property. This is 
contrary to Mr Ys experience as he was able to find a contractor who could carry out the work without scaffolding.
From what Ive seen, RSA took reasonable steps to progress Mr Ys claim. Their contractors 
assessed the damage, and werent able to carry out the repairs without scaffolding due to 
their own health and safety requirements. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold 
RSA responsible for this. 
However, I acknowledge that RSA couldve been clearer with Mr Y from the outset about the 
potential need for scaffolding given the height of the property, rather than because it had 
three storeys. I can see why this wouldve caused Mr Y frustration, as he knew the issue with 
his roof wasnt at the third storey level.  I also consider that if the specific location of the leak 
had been confirmed earlier on, an appropriate engineer wouldve been found sooner. I say 
this because if RSA had confirmed to Mr Y earlier in the claim that none of their contractors 
could carry out the repairs without scaffolding, Im persuaded that he wouldve chosen to find 
his own contractor sooner.
I next considered if RSA kept Mr Y appropriately updated throughout his claim. And if they 
treated him with empathy throughout.
In order to assess if RSA kept Mr Y updated throughout the claim, Ive produced a concise 
timeline of the claim based on RSAs complaint notes.
Customer service issues
30 December 2020 - Claim reported and accepted. £25 excess taken.
31 December 2020  RSA looked to allocate a contractor to the property.
1 January 2021 - RSA told Mr Y that due to the bank holiday and the fact that his property 
was three-storey, there may be delays. The notes record: PH OK with this, keep updated
2 January 2021  RSA told Mr Y that their contractor may be able to visit his property on 
Monday if the weather didnt prevent the visit. They also told him that he could employ his 
own contractor if he preferred. Mr Y didnt want to do this.
4 January 2021 - RSA note that their contractor is to visit the property. They told Mr Y that if 
the engineer stated that scaffolding was required this wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
The notes record that Mr Y understood.
5 January 2021  Mr Y disputed that his property was three-storey. He agreed to send 
pictures to RSA.
12 January 2021  Mr Y was unhappy with the lack of service. It was two weeks since he 
reported the claim. He said RSA hadnt updated him and the damage to his roof was still 
there. RSA called their first contractor to check why theyd felt scaffolding was needed. They 
explained why. They also noted that their second contractor couldnt do the work either as 
the property was too high.
13 January 2021  RSA told Mr Y that theyd spoken to all of their listed contractors and 
none were able to work on a property of his propertys height, so scaffolding would be 
needed.
19 January 2021  RSA reviewed the complaint and considered that Mr Y had caused 
confusion by telling them his property was three-storey.20 January 2021 - RSA agreed to cover Mr Ys contractors costs and offered to pay him 
directly.
21 January 2021  RSA noted that the Mr Ys contractor had a backlog due to the bad 
weather, but would attend on 5 February. They agreed to follow up with Mr Y on 6 February 
after the repairs had been completed.
26 January 2021  RSA noted that the repairs hadnt been carried out yet due to the 
contractor needing to self-isolate due to his wife testing positive for coronavirus.
18 February 2021  Mr Y told RSA that his contractor had attended that day but it hadnt 
been safe to do the work due to high winds.
4 March 2021  First final response letter sent. Mr Y said his complaint points werent all 
covered. 
18 March 2021  RSA noted that the repair work had now been completed. 
From this, and from other information provided by both parties, I can see that RSA generally 
kept Mr Y updated. However, as our investigator noted, there dont appear to have been any 
updates between 5 January 2021 and 12 January 2021. And Mr Y didnt have full use of his 
bedroom during this time. 
RSA said that theyd agreed to wait for the pictures Mr Y had agreed to send. They said this 
was why they hadnt updated Mr Y between 5 January 2021 and 12 January 2021.
From the evidence, the delay from 19 January 2021, when RSA had accepted that the repair 
work could be carried out by Mr Ys own contractor, and 15 March 2021, when I understand 
the repair work was finally completed, wasnt in RSAs control. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to hold them responsible for his period of delay. Or to say that they 
shouldve provided more updates during this period. From what Ive seen, RSA did try to 
ensure the claim was progressing over this period. And agreed to follow up to check that the 
work had been carried out. 
However, I earlier concluded that Mr Y couldve found his own contractor sooner if RSA had 
confirmed earlier that none of their contractors could carry out the repair work without 
scaffolding. The timeline above shows that it took RSA two weeks to tell Mr Y that none of 
their listed contractors was effectively available. I consider that RSA couldve explained to Mr 
Y after their second contractor had told them they werent able to carry out the work without 
scaffolding that it could be the case that none of their contractors would be in a position to 
carry out the repair work without scaffolding. This wouldve meant that Mr Y couldve looked 
for his own contractor two weeks earlier than he did. 
I acknowledge that RSA did generally keep Mr Y informed. And I can see that they took 
reasonable steps to find a contractor in the first instance. I also note that they agreed to use 
Mr Ys contractor and to pay him directly. But I consider they couldve told Mr Y sooner that it 
may be beneficial for him to employ his own contractor. 
In their second final response letter, RSA said they reviewed the call recordings and 
acknowledged that one of their call handlers hadnt been as empathetic as they shouldve 
been, particularly given the delays Mr Y had experienced. Ive now heard a recording of this 
call. I dont think the call handler acted particularly badly, but RSA have acknowledged that 
she couldve been more empathetic. I agree with our investigator that in such circumstances, 
an apology may not be enough. However, I have listened to a number of other calls between 
Mr Y and RSA and I consider that for the most part, the call handlers acted as I wouldve expected.
Mr Y also complained that he received an incomplete final response letter before his claim 
had been fully resolved. This made him feel like RSA were trying to close his complaint 
down without his permission. 
I can understand why Mr Y felt this way, but from what Ive seen, his claim was still being 
progressed. RSA were acting within guidance when they sent their first final response letter. 
They explained that Mr Y could refer his complaint to this service when they sent the first 
final response. But I understand that Mr Y agreed to give RSA more time to complete their 
investigation after the repairs had been completed. I consider that this approach was fair and 
reasonable. And I dont consider that RSA did anything wrong here. 
Overall, I consider that RSA couldve reduced the delays to the claim by up to two weeks if 
theyd better understood the situation in the first instance. The delay prolonged the 
inconvenience Mr Y was living with. RSA have also acknowledged that they werent always 
empathetic to Mr Y. I dont agree that RSA should return the excess as they have accepted 
and paid for the claim.
I understand that Mr Y doesnt agree that £100 is sufficient compensation. But, based on 
what Ive seen, I consider that it is reasonable under the circumstances. I uphold this 
complaint, for the reasons Ive discussed.
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr Y £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by the delays to his claim, and for the lack of empathy they consider 
one of their handlers showed him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman