DRN-3428196
The complaint
Mrs K complains Blemain Finance Limited failed to disclose the commission they paid to her 
broker when she took out a loan with Blemain in 2011.
Mrs Ks complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative. For ease, Ill refer to Mrs K 
throughout. 
What happened
In June 2011 Mrs K took out a 25 year loan with Blemain Finance Limited for around 
£19,000, which was secured over her property. The loan was arranged through a broker who 
was paid commission by Blemain. She redeemed the loan in 2015.
Mrs K complained the loan was mis-sold and that the broker commission wasnt disclosed to 
her. She said this created an unfair relationship and there was a breach of fiduciary duty 
which meant Blemain should refund everything shes paid, plus interest. 
Blemain rejected Mrs Ks complaint so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator said Mrs K had brought her complaint about the sale too late. And she said 
Blemain had disclosed the commission. Mrs Ks accepted shed brought her complaint about 
the sale of the loan out of time. But she didnt agree with our investigators view relating to 
the commission. So, her complaints been passed to me for a final decision in relation to that 
issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K argues that Blemain procured a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by the broker to her 
by failing to disclose the commission they would pay the broker. And she says the payment 
of the undisclosed commission created an unfair relationship between her and Blemain.
The terms and conditions of the loan agreement set out, Any broker fee shown overleaf 
represents a fee that you have agreed to pay to the Broker. You authorise us to pay the 
Broker Fee shown overleaf from the Total Loan. We will also make a commission payment 
to the Broker up to a maximum of an amount of £661.00 for fully packaging the case and 
introducing the loan to us. This amount could be reduced dependent on the quality of 
packaging of the loan by the Broker. By signing the Agreement you consent to us making all 
these payments to the Broker.
Mrs K signed the agreement on 16 June 2011 confirming she wanted to be legally bound by 
its terms. I think the terms of the loan agreement Ive set out above were clear, fair and not 
misleading, as Id expect them to be. Id expect Mrs K to have read the terms and conditions 
before she signed the agreement. And, given the terms were clear, Id expect her to have 
understood Blemain would pay the broker commission of up to £661. 
In the end, Blemain paid the broker around £284. That was in line with the amount the terms 
of the agreement anticipated theyd pay. So, Im satisfied Blemain had disclosed the 
commission they were likely to pay before Mrs K agreed the loan and got her consent to 
paying it. 
Mrs K made some detailed legal arguments in connection with her complaint. Broadly, they 
relate to undisclosed commission where the consumer wasnt aware that commission would 
actually be paid or what the amount of any commission would have been. As Ive set out 
here, it would have been clear to Mrs K that commission was being paid by Blemain to the 
broker and that the amount was up to £661. I dont therefore consider it necessary to 
respond in detail to the legal arguments Mrs K has presented. Whilst I understand Mrs K will 
be disappointed, I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman