DRN-4095868
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy because Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank rejected her 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms M purchased a hot tub from a supplier and paid using her Tesco credit card.
Ms M says that the brochure provided to her by the supplier stated that the cost of running 
the hot tub would be £1.00 - £1.20 per day, but that the actual cost is around £7.00 - £8.00 
per day.
Ms M contacted Tesco to make a claim for misrepresentation. Tesco reviewed the claim 
under the chargeback scheme first but said that the card issuer didnt have a process in 
place for misrepresentation claims. Tesco then reviewed the claim under section 75 but said 
it wasnt able to hold the supplier liable because the costs provided to Ms M were 
approximate.
Ms M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the supplier hadnt made an untrue 
statement of fact because by using the words approximately and on average, the supplier 
had reflected the fact that costs could vary due to a number of factors.
Ms M didnt agree. She said the brochure provided to her by the supplier and the information 
provided to her verbally pre-sale led her to believe that the cost of running the hot tub was 
between £1.00 - £1.20 per day and that this information influenced her decision to purchase 
the hot tub.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provided of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Ms Ms complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Tescos response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
Ms M hasnt said that theres been a breach of contract, so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a customer to enter into a 
contract.
In this case, Ms M says that the costs of running the hot tub were misrepresented to her by 
the supplier. She says she was provided with a brochure which stated that spa pools will 
increase your electricity bill by approximately £1.00 - £1.20 per day on average, with a 
maintained temperature of 39 degrees. Ms M says that the supplier made verbal 
representations about the cost of running the hot tub which were the same as what was said 
in the brochure.
Theres no dispute that the words appeared in the brochure. And I have no reason to 
disbelieve Ms M when she says that the supplier provided her with the same information 
verbally.
Ive thought about whether the statement about the costs of running the hot tub amounted to 
an untrue statement of fact. On balance, Im not persuaded that it does. This is because the 
supplier used the words approximately and on average. These words  in my opinion  
are absolutely key here. It wouldnt have been possible for the supplier to provide specific 
costs to individual customers because there are so many factors which are likely to affect the 
running costs, such as (for example) the cost of electricity from the customers electricity 
supplier, the customers usage of the hot tub, the outside air temperature and the general 
maintenance of the hot tub. In this case, the supplier has provided an approximate running 
cost based on the average cost. But this doesnt amount to a statement of fact that this is 
what it would cost Ms M to run the hot tub.
For these reasons Im not persuaded that theres been a misrepresentation. I dont think 
Tesco acted unfairly when it rejected the claim under section 75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman