DRN-4074439
The complaint
Mrs S complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) and the service he received after he 
made a claim on the Home Emergency (HE) cover included within his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs S held a home insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. This policy included HE cover. 
UKI use a separate company, who Ill refer to as C, to handle claims made on the HE cover 
included within the insurance policies they underwrite. UKI remain accountable and 
responsible for the actions of C and so, any reference to UKI includes the actions of C.
On 18 November 2022, Mr S boiler broken down, leaving him and his family without access 
to heating and hot water. So, he called UKI to make a claim on this HE cover. UKI arranged 
for an engineer to attend on the same day. This engineer identified a loss of pressure to the 
system, caused by a leaking diverter valve. So, new parts were required. But the engineer 
re-pressurised Mr S system, restoring the boiler function while the parts were obtained.
These parts were fitted on 24 November, maintaining heating and hot water to the property. 
But Mr S boiler began to make noises on 30 November, before breaking down again on 2 
December. UKI sent another engineer to the property, who identified another issue they felt 
was separate to the previous one repaired. And further parts were required. At this point, Mr 
S home had no heating or hot water.
These parts, and the labour needed to fit them, took Mr S over his policy limit and so, UKI 
advised Mr S he would need to make a payment of £214.10 before the repair could be 
authorised. Mr S challenged this and following internal conversations, UKI agreed to waive 
this cost on 6 December. An engineer attended Mr S home again on 8 December and 
completed the repair, with heating and hot water being restored. But Mr S was unhappy with 
the service hed received, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with the number of visits needed to repair his boiler. He didnt think the 
engineer who attended on 24 November had fitted the correct parts and so, had broken his 
boiler leading to the breakdown in December. And he felt this had left him and his family 
without heating and hot water during winter for an extended period, which had led him and 
his son to become ill. Mr S was also unhappy UKI had failed to provide him with the 
alternative accommodation he was entitled to under the policy, and the conduct of the first 
engineer who attended. So, Mr S wanted to be compensated significantly for the upset he 
and his family had been caused.
UKI responded to Mr S complaint and upheld it. They accepted they had failed to arrange 
alternative accommodation for Mr S and his family. And they accepted there had been 
delays in arranging the repairs to Mr S boiler, alongside a lack of communication. So, they 
offered to pay Mr S £105 to recognise the impact this caused. And despite being unable to 
evidence the conversation between Mr S and their first engineer, they agreed to provide 
feedback to their network manager about this. But they didnt agree their engineers had 
failed to replace parts or done something else that led to Mr S boiler breaking. So, they 
didnt offer any further compensation to address this aspect of the complaint. Mr S remained 
unhappy with this response and so, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think the £105 offer was 
enough to compensate Mr S for the complaint issues UKI had already accepted fault for and 
recommended UKI increase this offer to £200, to adequately reflect the impact caused to Mr 
S considering his situation and the time of year. But our investigator explained they were 
unable to say for certain exactly what was discussed between Mr S and the first engineer 
and so, they were unable to say UKI had done anything wrong here. And they didnt think 
they were able to say Mr S illness was caused solely by the actions of UKI. 
UKI didnt respond to our investigators recommendation. And Mr S didnt agree. Mr S didnt 
think the increase to £200 was enough to compensate him and his family for the upset they 
were caused. Mr S explained both he and his son had become unwell and wanted this 
considered. Mr S also felt the delay in the third repair was due to the dispute over the 
£214.10 payment, rather than a part delay. And finally, Mr S offered to take a lie detector test 
to provide his testimony regarding the conduct of the first engineer.
Our investigator considered these points, but their view remained unchanged. Mr S 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note in their response to Mr S complaint, UKI have already accepted they failed to ensure 
Mr S was offered the chance to utilise his alternative accommodation allowance. And, that 
there were avoidable delays and a lack of communication during the claim process. As these 
points arent in dispute, I dont intend to discuss the merits of them in any further detail. 
Instead, I will refer to these later within my decision when considering what I think UKI 
should do to put things right.
Instead, Ive focused on the main areas that remain in dispute. I recognise Mr S strongly 
feels that, on the second attendance, the engineer failed to fit the required parts correctly, if 
at all. And he feels this led to the boiler breaking down again on 2 December. And Ive 
considered his detailed testimony about this attendance at length.
But Ive also seen UKIs system notes, and the notes of the attendances in November and 
December. On the attendance in question, the engineer noted both parts had been fitted as 
intended. And that Mr S had been left with heating and hot water, which isnt in dispute.
And in the engineers report from 2 December, an entirely separate engineer noted they had 
checked the previous parts that had been fitted, and that these were working okay. The 
engineer went onto explain that the reason for the breakdown in December was due to the 
failing of another, unrelated part within the boiler. 
As I wasnt present at the time the parts were fitted, Im unable to say for certain exactly 
what happened and what work the engineer completed. So, I must make a decision based 
on the information I have available, and the balance of probabilities. And in this situation, I note the attending engineer stated the parts had been fitted. And Ive no evidence, other 
than Mr S recollection of a call he overheard, to say this may not have been the case.
And, further to this, a separate engineer has then inspected these parts and deemed them to 
be in good working order. As this opinion has been provided from another entirely separate 
engineer with no involvement previously in the claim, I think its fair for me to rely on this 
opinion. And so, based on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely the second 
engineer did fit the parts as intended, correctly. So, I dont think I can say this engineer, and 
so UKI, did anything wrong here.
I note Mr S has also raised concerns regarding the conduct of the first engineer who 
attended his property. And I dont dispute Mr S recollection of events, or the way he recalls 
being made to feel. But again, I wasnt present at the time the engineer attended. And Ive 
seen no evidence to substantiate Mr S testimony, nor have I been able to consider the 
attending engineers recollection of events. So, while I dont dispute Mr S was unhappy with 
the treatment he received on this attendance, I dont think Im able to say for certain that the 
engineer definitively did something wrong. And so, I dont think Im able to then consider 
what compensation, if any, should be appropriate. I note UKI have provided feedback to the 
engineers network manager, and I think this shows UKI taking Mr S testimony seriously, 
which Id expect them to do.
I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree with this approach. And I note his offer to take a lie detector 
test to show his testimony is truthful and correct. But this isnt something our service would 
consider. Nor is it something we could force the attending engineer to comply with. And even 
if it was, this decision isnt disputing Mr S version of events, or the truthfulness of how he 
was made to feel on the attendance. But our service is an evidence-based organisation and 
for me to consider compensation for any complaint issue, I must be able to rely on a certain 
level of substantive evidence. And in this situation, I dont think there is any.
Ive then turned back to the complaint points that UKI have already accepted fault for, to 
consider what I think UKI should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what UKI should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr S back in the position he wouldve been, had UKI acted fairly in the first 
place. And it must also consider the actions UKI have already taken in their own complaint 
response.
In this situation, I dont think I can say UKI did anything wrong regarding the actual repairs 
they made to the boiler. So, I think Mr S would always have needed three attendances to 
fully diagnose and repair his boiler.
But I do think UKI couldve ensured the final repair, completed on 8 December, was 
completed sooner. Ive seen UKIs system notes, which show a delay of two days for them to 
receive the attending engineers report and to calculate the cost of the repair compared to Mr 
S policy limit. Considering the time of year, and the fact Mr S and his family were without 
heating and hot water, I think this couldve been done sooner.
And Ive seen another delay of two days, where Mr S claim was on hold why UKI awaited an 
internal decision from a claims manager regarding the waiving of the £214.10 over limit fee. I 
think UKI couldve looked to authorise the repairs while this decision was made, to ensure 
Mr S and his family had heating and hot water restored at a particularly cold time of year.
But I do note Mr S policy contained a limit of £500. And, Ive seen the total part and repair costs exceeded this amount, through no fault of UKIs. So, I dont think UKI were unfair to 
initially ask Mr S to pay the £214.10, and I do think Mr S has received a financial benefit from 
this amount being waived by UKI. And this is something Ive taken into consideration.
I also think its clear Mr S has needed to chase UKI for updates during the claim process, 
rather than UKI proactively updating him. And I appreciate the inconvenience this wouldve 
caused Mr S. I also note its accepted by UKI that they didnt call Mr S back to arrange 
alternative accommodation and so, Mr S has been unable to utilise this cover, which is 
included in his policy. 
Our investigator recommended UKI increase their offer of £105, to a total amount of £200, to 
fairly compensate Mr S for the upset hes been caused. And I think this increase to £200 is a 
fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not 
already been made.
I think it fairly compensates Mr S for the delays hes experienced during the claim journey, 
and UKIs failure to communicate with him effectively during this time. These delays, and 
UKIs failure to arrange alternative accommodation, left Mr S and his family living in a home 
without heating and hot water during one of the coldest months of the year, and I think this 
wouldve been distressing and upsetting. But I think the total £200 payment also takes into 
consideration the fact UKI took the decision to waive the £214.10 payment that Mr S was 
due to pay, as the repair and part costs had exceeded his policy limit. And, that Im unable to 
say for certain that Mr S and his sons illness were caused solely by the delay in his boiler 
being repaired in December. So, I think UKI should increase Mr S compensation to £200. It 
is my understanding that Mr S hasnt yet received a payment of £105 and so, I think a 
payment of £200 should be made. If Mr S has already received the £105 payment, then UKI 
should issue a second payment to bring the total amount to £200 overall.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr S complaint about U K Insurance Limited and I 
direct them to take the following action:
Increase their offer of compensation to Mr S to £200 and pay Mr S the necessary 
amount to ensure this amount is received by Mr S in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman