DRN-3050324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them 
with a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 16 January 2020, Mr and Mrs M purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for Mr and Mrs Ms trip, including post- departure cover, with Mr and Mrs M going on 
holiday from 23 October 2020 to 31 October 2020.  The cost of this was £560.75. And 
included cover for six medical conditions Mr and Mrs M declared.
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs M purchased some additional cover options. These were;
Travel Disruption Cover - £19.98
Excess Waiver - £17.90
Gadget Cover - £7.49
Terrorism Cancellation Cover = £7.90
Car Hire Excess Waiver - £22.50.
With the above additional cover options, and insurance premium tax, the total cost Mr and 
Mrs M paid for the policy was £763.83.
Mr and Mrs M have explained that their holiday was cancelled on 7 August 2020 by its 
provider, as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic. And so, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great 
Lakes shortly after  on 2 September 2020, to let it know the holiday wasnt going ahead, 
and that theyd like to cancel their policy and receive a refund.
Great Lakes said it couldnt provide Mr and Mrs M with a cash refund. Instead, it offered Mr 
and Mrs M the opportunity to move their travel insurance dates at no extra charge. As long s 
the new cover dates were within 18 months of when they originally purchased their travel 
insurance policy, so long as the policy dates hadnt expired. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs M 
could be given a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused part of their original travel insurance 
policy  which it said equated to £139.22. Mr and Mrs M would then be able to use this to 
purchase a new travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, whether this be a single or annual 
multi-trip policy  as long as they did so within 36 months.
Mr and Mrs M didnt feel these offers were fair, and so didnt accept them. They made a 
complaint to Great Lakes. But it didnt change its position. Remaining dissatisfied, Mr and 
Mrs M referred their complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our investigators opinion
Or investigator considered this complaint. She noted the additional gadget cover, terrorism 
cancellation cover and car hire excess waiver were the responsibility of different insurers. 
And so, she couldnt consider those elements of the policy under this complaint. If Mr and 
Mrs M did want to complain about these parts, they would need to contact the relevant 
insurer. 
She did however note that a cash offer had been made for these parts of the policy  this 
being £29.81. As an update - this has now changed to £38.80 on account of a prior 
miscalculation. 
She noted that Mr and Mrs Ms concerns in reference to a refund on the main policy, the 
additional travel disruption cover and excess waiver cover were Great Lakes responsibility. 
And so, she could consider the complaint about these areas of the policy. And she thought 
these should be upheld in part.
She set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the 
circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance 
law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid 
is not returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. Including for the additional 
excess waiver, and travel disruption cover.
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 16 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr and Mrs 
M were due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium when Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled, until the end 
date of the policy on 31 October 2020. 
She noted Great Lakes had done this already for the main policy. But she said it should also 
do so for the additional cover options provided by Great Lakes  the travel disruption and 
excess waiver cover. 
Great Lakes agreed that the pro-rata voucher should include the above and said this meant 
the pro-rata voucher due to Mr and Mrs M would now be £215.70. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They felt that Great Lakes offer of 
a voucher wasnt fair  as they couldnt see them travelling abroad again in the foreseeable 
future, given the pandemic as well as Mr Ms age and medical conditions. 
In addition to this, Mr and Mrs M noted that since purchasing their policy in January 2020 
Great Lakes had added terms to their policy in relation to Coronavirus, without telling them. 
And, if they had known of these additional terms, they would have cancelled the policy and 
received a full refund. 
Because Mr and Mrs M remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for the same reasons as our investigator.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr and Mrs M.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs M wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy. Their holiday would no longer be going ahead as a result of 
the coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think Mr and Mrs Ms reasons for cancelling their 
policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this 
because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. And they arent the reason this policy was cancelled.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I do think its reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata 
refund for the main policy, and the additional cover options it is responsible for.
I say this because, Mr and Mrs M were covered from the date they purchased their policy, 
for any cancellation claim they may have needed to make. And the premium they paid 
included this cover. As Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im 
satisfied its reasonable that Mr and Mrs M pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of their holiday, as their 
holiday provider refunded the money they had paid. Instead they contacted Great Lakes on 
2 September 2020, to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given their holiday had 
been cancelled on 7 August 2020. 
Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from the point the holiday was 
cancelled on 7 August 2020, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great 
Lakes should provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday cancellation, for both the 
main policy, and the additional cover options its responsible for. These being the excess 
waiver and travel disruption cover. It means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium when it 
knows there is nothing left to cover.  Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 7 August 2020 to 
31 October 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M dont agree. But, the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has 
offered Mr and Mrs M arent unreasonably restrictive. The voucher provides Mr and Mrs M 
with a number of options, including the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, 
or gift the voucher to someone else. And it allows Mr and Mrs M cover to go on the same 
holiday at a later date than originally planned. Mr and Mrs M have said they are unlikely to 
go abroad for the foreseeable future  including because of Mr Ms age and health. But I 
have to be mindful that Mr and Mrs M were willing to travel with Mr Ms age and health as it 
is when they bought the policy. And, the voucher does allow for use for a UK holiday too. 
Great Lakes has recalculated the voucher, to include a pro-rata refund for the additional 
cover options it is reasonable for  and noted this would be £215.70. Ive calculated the 
refund as £213.03. But Great Lakes has confirmed it will maintain its offer of £215.70. 
Im satisfied this is fair. By offering the above, Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M 
differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and calculated the voucher in 
this case. Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount from the date Mr and Mrs Ms 
holiday was cancelled  7 August 2020, to the date the policy was due to end, 31 October 
2020. This meant there would be 86 days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent 
on risk - which equates to £213.03 of the premium paid. As the above offer of £215.70 more 
than reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 86 days after the policy was 
cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is now fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do 
anything more than this.
Mr and Mrs M have noted that their policy had additional Coronavirus terms added to it, 
without them being informed. And, theyve said if they had known, they would have 
cancelled their insurance policy at the time. I have considered Mr and Mrs Ms concerns 
here. But it doesnt alter my outcome on their complaint. Mr and Mrs M still the benefit of 
cover under the policy, until their holiday was cancelled, as explained above. And Great 
Lakes has agreed to refund, via credit voucher, the unused part, including the additional 
cover options it is responsible for. 
And, should Mr and Mrs M have needed to make a claim under their policy, this service 
wouldnt have considered it fair for Great Lakes to rely on any terms added after purchase, 
that Mr and Mrs M werent informed of. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer to provide Mr 
and Mrs M with a pro-rata credit voucher of £215.70, as per the terms detailed above, is now 
fair. And so, Great Lakes Insurance SE should provide this to Mr and Mrs M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman