DRN-4068399
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her claim for 
storm damage.
What happened
Miss R had buildings insurance with RSA which provided cover for storm damage. She 
made a claim under her policy after her bedroom ceiling collapsed during a storm.
RSA appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report stated that the roof 
was blocked with debris and the roof tiles had been positioned badly, allowing water through. 
The bedroom ceiling collapsed as a result of water coming through the roof.
RSA said the water came through the roof mainly because of the poor workmanship and 
gradual deterioration. RSA also said there was no evidence of a storm. It declined Miss Rs 
claim for her bedroom ceiling because the roof was excluded under the wear and tear and 
poor workmanship exclusions, and she didnt have accidental damage cover.
Miss R complained. She said the damage was caused by a storm and whether or not she 
had accidental damage cover was irrelevant.
RSA issued its final response confirming that it declined the claim, so Miss R brought her 
complaint to us.
After further consideration, RSA accepted thered been a dry storm, but it maintained its 
decision to decline under the wear and tear and poor workmanship exclusions.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong by declining Miss Rs claim for 
the reasons it gave. She noted that weather reports showed thered been a storm, but RSAs 
reason for declining the claim was that the roof let water in because of its poor condition.
Miss R didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
When considering a complaint about a claim for storm damage, I ask three questions:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for me to consider upholding the 
complaint.
Was there a storm?
While RSA initially said there wasnt, it later agreed that thered been a dry storm. Miss R 
said the rain was torrential and provided supporting evidence.
For the purposes of reaching my decision, Ive accepted there were storm conditions on the 
day the damage occurred.
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
If a storm is violent enough to damage a roof, then I think its reasonable to say the rainwater 
could enter the property and bring a ceiling down. Therefore, Ill accept that the damage 
could be typical of that caused by a storm.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
Its Miss Rs responsibility to show that a storm happened and that her roof was damaged by 
the storm. To be clear, I understand that her claim is only for her bedroom ceiling. But as the 
roof wouldve needed to be damaged first for the rain to get to the ceiling, then I need to see 
evidence showing that the storm, more likely than not, caused the roof damage.
RSAs report includes photos of the roof. The photos reflect what the surveyor said about the 
roof tiles being roughly broken to fit them together and that the channel for water to run away 
isnt formed properly. I note theres some vegetation and debris in the channel. 
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that RSA has shown that the poor workmanship and 
general wear and tear were the main contributing factors for the rainwater entering Miss Rs 
roof space. The storm simply highlighted the problems.
It follows, therefore, that the bedroom ceiling didnt collapse mainly because of a storm. It 
collapsed because water had entered Miss Rs home and built up due to poor workmanship 
and wear and tear. Neither of those causes are covered under the policy, and RSA 
explained this to Miss R.
So, in light of the evidence, Im satisfied that RSA declined Miss Rs claim for storm damage 
in line with the policy exclusions.
Accidental damage
RSA looked at whether the bedroom ceiling damage could be covered under accidental 
damage. But Miss R said it wasnt an accident.
I understand RSA was being helpful by looking to offer cover under another part of the policy 
rather than looking to find another exclusion. While Miss R said it wasn't an accident, it does 
meet the policy definition:
Sudden, unexpected and visible damage which has not been caused on purpose.
So, if Miss R had accidental cover, RSA wouldve been able to offer cover for her bedroom 
ceiling. As thats not the case, Im satisfied it fairly declined the claim for the bedroom ceiling.
Overall, the evidence shows its more likely than not that the rainwater came through to the bedroom ceiling because of poor workmanship and wear and tear affecting the roof. 
Therefore, RSA relied on valid exclusions to decline cover under the storm peril. And as 
Miss R didnt have accidental damage cover, Im satisfied that the policy didnt provide cover 
for the bedroom ceiling. I dont think RSA has done anything wrong by declining the claim for 
the reasons it gave.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman