DRN-2559977
The complaint
Mr L complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd wrongly changed the terms of his whole of life 
policy which resulted in financial loss.
What happened
Mr Ls wife sadly died in July 2020. He made a claim under their joint Adaptable Life Plan 
(the policy), which was a unit-linked whole of life policy paying a lump sum on the first death. 
The policy started in 1984 and was reviewable meaning the sum assured could increase at 
each review. The reviews were set to happen on the tenth anniversary of the policy and then 
every five years  when one of the policyholders reached 70, the reviews were set to 
happen every year. 
The original terms of the policy said that any increase to the sum assured following a review, 
would happen automatically. But Zurich changed the policy terms to make this optional. This 
took effect from March 2010. From 2011 onwards, yearly statements included the following 
paragraph:
If the overall cost of cover is lower than we expected you could choose to increase your 
cover or allow your plan's cash value to build more quickly. Under the original terms of your 
plan any increase to your cover following a review would have been applied automatically. 
We have since changed this so that you now have a choice whether or not to increase your 
cover.
On 22 October 2019 Mr and Mrs L received a review letter from Zurich which explained that 
the cost of providing the cover was lower than itd expected, which in turn meant the cash 
value of the policy was building up more than anticipated. Zurich said that if Mr and Mrs L 
preferred, they could use this extra value to fund an increase in cover from £62,153 to 
£70,835 without the need to increase the premium payments. Zurich noted that if Mr and 
Mrs L wanted this option, they needed to complete and return an enclosed application form 
by 25 November 2019. As Zurich didnt receive this form, the sum assured remained at 
£62,153 which was the sum Mr L was entitled to when Mrs L died.
Mr L complained to Zurich. He said the renewal shouldve happened automatically. But 
Zurich rejected Mr Ls complaint saying that the change had been communicated to Mr L 
since taking effect in 2010. Zurich noted in the October 2019 review letter Mr and Mrs L 
hadnt confirmed they wanted the increase to their cover. So Zurich didnt think it had done 
anything wrong in terms of the level of cover that Mr L was now able to claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, he considered the 
changes had been properly communicated to Mr and Mrs L. And that Zurich were entitled to 
make the changes to their policy. 
Mr L disagreed. He said he specifically purchased this policy as it was managed 
automatically and delivered peace of mind for him and his family. Mr L didnt think Zurich had 
met the criterion for making changes to the policy. And that Zurichs communications were 
very misleading and confusing. Mr L said that his wife was diagnosed with cancer in 2002, 
so he wouldnt have wanted to cash-in the policy but rather put the extra funding towards 
increasing the level of cover.
Our investigator responded to Mr L saying the further points didnt change his view. So the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr L understandably has strong feelings about this complaint and I 
appreciate he is in a difficult position given the recent loss of his wife. I offer Mr L my sincere 
condolences. However, I trust that Mr L will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching 
them. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened I've 
based my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I see that Zurich did send Mr L and his late wife information about the changes to their 
policy. They were sent yearly statements  and from 2011 there was a paragraph in each 
statement explaining the changes to the policy. Ive set out the relevant paragraph above. 
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs L received these statements. But Mr L says that he didnt 
notice this paragraph and didnt think Zurich could make the change without his permission.
I can see from the original terms that changes can be made to the policy as follows:
should there be a change in circumstances, which in the opinion of the Actuary of the 
Company renders it impracticable or impossible to give full effect to the provisions hereof, 
these provisions and the benefits conferred thereby may be varied by the Company in such 
manner as the Actuary considers appropriate
So I dont think Zurich needed to ask Mr L, or other policyholders, whether or not it could 
make these changes. Under the original terms it could make a decision in consultation with 
its advisers to make changes to the policy  and Zurich have confirmed the decision was 
made in consultation with its actuaries. I appreciate Mr L doesnt think the term was 
impractical or impossible but this would be something for Zurich to decide in consultation 
with its advisers. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs L started to receive review letters ten years after the policy 
started. With each review letter they received a Your plan review booklet. The booklet, like 
the yearly statements, explained to policyholders that any increase in cover was now 
optional rather than automatic. The October 2019 review letter itself said Under the original 
terms of your plan any increase to the cover following a review would have been applied 
automatically. We have since changed this so that you have a choice whether or not to 
increase cover. 
All in all, I think Mr and Mrs L did receive clear information about the change and what they 
needed to do if they wanted to increase their level of cover following each review. I think the 
information provided to them was clear, fair and not misleading. And therefore, allowed them 
to make an informed decision about how they wanted to proceed. Im also satisfied the 
October 2019 review letter made it clear that Mr and Mrs L needed to complete and return 
an enclosed application form to Zurich by 25 November 2019 if they wanted to increase their level of cover. As this wasnt done before this date or at any time before Mrs L sadly died, I 
cant fairly hold Zurich responsible for the level of cover remaining at £62,153.
I note what Mr L says about his wifes diagnosis in 2002. Whilst I appreciate this meant the 
cash value was probably less important to them than the level of cover, the changes didnt 
stop them from increasing the level of cover  it simply gave them a choice to do so rather 
than this happening automatically. And unless Zurich received the relevant application form 
as Ive outlined above, I dont think it could anticipate the choice Mr and Mrs L would want to 
make. As Ive said, Im satisfied Zurich provided Mr and Mrs L with a clear information to 
allow them to make an informed decision, so I think its acted fairly and reasonably in this 
case.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate this is a difficult situation for Mr L, I wont be 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman