DRN-2401560
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax applies an 
exchange rate to his foreign currency transactions.
What happened
Mr G said he has a Halifax credit card, which he uses for foreign transactions. He usually
pays the transactions off straight away, using the pending transaction amount to work out
how much hell owe. But he said that when the exchange rate changed, and became less
favourable, after hed made his purchase, Halifax was asking him to pay more. It wasnt
offering him money back when the exchange rate changed in his favour though.
Halifax said that it could see Mr G had made a transaction on 10 June, and hed paid money
onto his card straight away to cover that. But the transaction didnt clear until a few days
later. And the exchange rate thats used is the one on the day the transaction is processed,
not the day the transaction was made. So the pending amount wont necessarily be the
amount he is charged, if the exchange rate changes.
In this case, Mr G paid £2,364.69, and was then charged £2,418.77. Halifax refunded the
difference between these amounts, a little over £50. It said it did that as a gesture of
goodwill. It hadnt done anything wrong. It has no control over when the merchant processes
the transaction. And the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on Mr Gs card, then uses
the exchange rate on the date the transaction is processed.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She set out for Mr G how his
payments were worked out. Halifax follows the card scheme operators process. She said
this had changed in August 2020, but before this, the card scheme operator applied the rate
at the time the transaction was processed. The processing date is often later than the date
the transaction was authorised, so the rate might not be what Mr G was expecting. Our
investigator gave Mr G examples of when this had worked for him, as well as when it worked
against him.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had been unfair. It applied the same process to all Mr
Gs foreign transactions.
Our investigator said that transactions from August 2020 are being calculated differently.
The card scheme operator will now apply the exchange rate on the transaction date instead
of the processing date. Again, sometimes this would work to Mr Gs advantage and
sometimes not.
Our investigator noted that Mr G had sent us a snapshot of Halifaxs website, taken in July.
That says -
When you pay in local currency, all transactions on the Halifax Clarity Credit Card on
converted automatically using the [the card scheme operators] rate on that day.
But the account terms say -
The exchange rate we use is set by the payment scheme We convert your
transaction into sterling when we add it to your account. Exchange rates may
change, so the exchange rate on the date you make your transaction may not be the
same as the exchange rate we used on the date we converted the transaction.
Halifax had explained that its website had been updated in April of this year, ahead of this
planned change by the card scheme operator. Our investigator thought it wouldve been
better if Halifaxs website made clear that the existing arrangements wouldnt change until
August. But she also said that the transactions Mr G complained about were done before he
saw this information on Halifaxs website. So she didnt think Halifaxs error had an impact
on Mr G. She didnt think Halifax had to do any more.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that he could appreciate that the exchange rate used might not
always be from the same day, especially with time differences. But in this instance the
transaction hadnt been processed until nine days later. And nine days to process a
transaction wasnt acceptable.
Mr G couldnt see how it was fair for Halifax to update its website with the card scheme
operators revised policy in April, when that wasnt implemented until August. He wanted to
know if Halifax had refunded all of its customers.
Mr G said wed been clear that Halifax made an error when it updated its website too early.
But we hadnt checked if this had an impact on other consumers. And hed used this
provision to substantiate his complaint.
Our investigator said she could only consider what Halifax was responsible for. It doesnt
have any control over when a merchant processes a transaction, or the exchange rate that's
applied. She said shed agree that nine days was a long time for a transaction to be
processed. But that wasnt Halifaxs fault.
And our investigator said she could only consider the impact on Mr G in this individual case.
Our service doesnt set far reaching rules or require businesses to change their policies. So
we couldnt look at whether other customers had been misled.
Our investigator said she thought the website was misleading, but she hadnt asked Halifax
to pay Mr G compensation because she didnt think the website had any impact on how he
used his card.
Mr G said that it was irrelevant who Halifax used to process its transactions. He had a
contract with Halifax, so Halifax was responsible for what happened on his card.
Mr G said that in order to put right Halifax's error in the wording of the website, and receive
an ex gratia payment of the sum equal to the difference, hed had to spend hours on the
phone, and he thought that alone should justify a compensation payment. He wanted an
ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Mr G felt that exchange rate changes were only being applied when they cost him 
money, not when he benefitted from them. He hasnt offered any specific examples 
of this, and Halifax and our investigator havent been able to find any examples of 
this either. I also note that Halifax isnt providing the exchange rates for these 
transactions. Its accepting the transactions and rates that Mr Gs card scheme 
provider has told it about. I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong here.Although I know Mr G thinks Halifax is responsible for everything on his card, I dont 
agree. Theres a lot that it just isnt in control of. It isnt responsible for merchants 
delaying the processing of payments, or for the policy that the card scheme operator 
uses to decide on which exchange rate to use. It cant change those things. So, in 
this instance, I dont think its Halifaxs fault that a transaction took nine days to be 
applied to Mr Gs card account.
Halifax has told us the policy the card scheme operator applies to decide which 
exchange rate to use, has recently changed. So Mr Gs foreign currency transactions 
should be more straightforward in future, because the card scheme operator will use 
the rate on the date of the transaction. Unfortunately, it updated its website to say 
this, but then the card scheme operator delayed this change. So, for a while, the 
website was wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this had affected Mr Gs transactions. I agree with that, 
because Mr G only looked at this information on the website after he spent the 
money on this card. But I do think he was affected by this incorrect information. 
When Mr G was concerned about a payment on his card, he looked at Halifaxs 
website, and that told him the charge Halifax applied was wrong.
I think Mr G should have been given the right information then. He shouldnt have 
needed to persist with this complaint for quite so long to find out how payments were 
processed  onto his card, and when the foreign exchange was carried out.
I know that Halifax has paid Mr G a gesture of goodwill already, but I dont think thats 
quite enough to make up for whats gone wrong here. So, because I think Halifaxs 
misleading website information has prolonged this issue for Mr G, Ill ask it to pay him 
£50 in compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said it thought my decision was unfair to it. It said it had already paid Mr G £54.08 
when he raised the issue, it said that was paid as a gesture of goodwill at that time, because 
it was satisfied the charges had been correctly applied. It had made sure that Mr G had no 
financial loss. 
Halifax said that although the information online wasnt correct, that was added in good faith 
in line with the advice given by the card scheme operator. Halifax said that this has been a 
very different year due to the current circumstances around the pandemic and there have 
been a lot of delays with a number of companies. It felt that should be taken into 
consideration, and asked me to consider this when preparing my final decision. 
I dont think Halifax should pay Mr G £50 now because the transaction he made took a long 
time to reach his card. Thats not what I think went wrong here. What I think went wrong is that when Mr G was charged more than he was expecting, 
Halifaxs website told him that hed been charged the wrong exchange rate. It said he 
shouldve been charged the exchange rate on the day the transaction was actually done. 
Mr G received a complaint response letter which told him he should be charged the 
exchange rate on the day the transaction was processed, which was somewhat later. This 
letter was dated 27 June 2020. Mr G sent us a screenshot of Halifaxs website, taken only a 
few days later, which said that transactions on his card are converted using the exchange 
rate on that day. 
I think thats a key reason why Mr G didnt accept Halifaxs complaint response letter, and 
why he brought his complaint to us. Whilst I accept that this has certainly been a challenging 
year for many businesses, I havent seen anything to suggest to me that the reason Halifaxs 
website was updated to reflect a change that the card scheme operator hadnt yet 
implemented, or why that wasnt then corrected when the change was delayed, was 
because of the pandemic. 
I think that mismatch between Mr Gs complaint response letter and the information on the 
website prolonged this complaint, and caused Mr G additional stress. And I dont think 
Halifaxs first payment does enough to put this right. I think an additional payment of £50, on 
top of the earlier payment of £54, provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr G said that our service had missed the point completely. Halifax had admitted its website 
was wrong. Mr G said that such a misrepresentation whether intended or in error was a very 
serious mistake on behalf of the Halifax, and it wouldnt have been rectified if he hadnt 
drawn this to Halifaxs attention.
Mr G said my decision was regrettable and weak. He said he also found the offer of £50 for 
the time taken in not only obtaining a refund but actions to try and make sure this type of 
"mistake" does not occur again by the Halifax to be derisory. He said it showed a lack of 
empathy and grasping of his complaint. He wanted me to reconsider my offer, and change it 
to something more commensurate with the time spent on the matter along with the 
seriousness of it.
Our service isnt a regulator. We dont make awards to punish businesses, or to try to stop 
them from making mistakes in the future. We look at the individual circumstances of each 
complaint, and try to provide a fair and reasonable outcome in that case. 
Here, Halifaxs website was wrong. Mr G says that may have had a serious impact on a 
large number of customers. But I cannot consider, as part of this complaint, any effect that 
may potentially have had on other customers of Halifax. I can only look at what happened to 
Mr G.
We know that Mr G hadnt looked at that web page until after he was charged for this 
transaction. So the only effect that mistake had on Mr G was that it prolonged this complaint. 
I dont think Mr G was charged any money that he should not have been charged because of 
this, and I dont think Halifax actually had to pay him the refund it paid. I think that was, as 
Halifax has said, a gesture of goodwill, not money it owed Mr G. 
So, in reaching a final decision here, Ive taken account of the gesture of goodwill Halifax 
has already made. I still dont think thats quite enough to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint, which is why Im telling it now to pay an additional £50. But I dont 
think it has to pay more than that. 
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr G £50 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman