DRN-3643426
The complaint
Mr R complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund him for transactions he says he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
On 10 October 2021, Mr R was robbed in his home, he was physically assaulted, and, 
amongst other possessions, his phone and bank cards were stolen. Mr R was discharged 
from hospital on 12 October 2021, when he realised that a series of payments had been 
made from his Starling account, totalling nearly £10,000. The payments were made using 
Apple Pay, which Mr Rs card was added to after the theft, and which had been set up on a 
different phone to Mr Rs.
Mr R contacted Starling to explain what had happened and to ask for the payments to be 
refunded. Starling ultimately decided not to refund the disputed payments, as it said there 
was no evidence of fraud, so Mr R referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, and felt that with the evidence 
provided, it was not reasonable for Starling to hold Mr R liable for the disputed payments, so 
he asked Starling to refund them, along with 8% interest and a payment of £200 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Starling did not agree with the investigators findings, in summary it said:
- there were inconsistencies between what Mr R and the police had said about why the 
police investigation was closed
- the photographs and hospital documents Mr R had provided had not been verified
- there was no clear way that a thief could have accessed Mr Rs phone and app to 
access what they needed to set up Apple Pay and to then authorise the payments
- the pattern of spending was not what it would usually expect in a fraud case  there 
was a long interval between when the phone and card were stolen and when the first 
payment was made, and the fraudsters didnt take all of Mr Rs money, only spending 
around half of what was available in his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached, this complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as out investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr R is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account also explain that Starling will not accept liability 
for losses incurred as a result of negligence or fraud on Mr Rs part.
So, the key question here is whether Starling has acted fairly in concluding that Mr R 
authorised the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Rs genuine card details were used, 
via Apple Pay, to make the disputed transactions, and that the payments were correctly 
authenticated. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Starling to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr R consented to the payments being made.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence provided by both Mr R and by Starling, and with 
the evidence Ive seen from the police, the hospital, and the photographs Mr R has provided, 
I dont think there can be any doubt that Mr R was injured on 10 October 2021, or that he 
was then in hospital until 12 October 2021. 
And bearing that in mind, Im satisfied that Mr R has give us a plausible explanation for what 
happened here  that he was attacked and his possessions stolen, which were then used to 
make these payments without his permission  which is supported by the evidence hes 
provided. He has been clear and consistent in his correspondence with us and with Starling 
and nothing in either Mr R or Starlings submissions to us has made me think Mr R is acting 
in bad faith here.
In summary:
- The payments were made with a phone that had not previously been used by Mr R
- I have seen nothing to suggest that the hospital paperwork Mr R has provided is in 
any way questionable or that it has been tampered with, and this paperwork shows 
he was in hospital when the disputed payments took place
- Given that the thieves had Mr Rs card and his phone, as well as other personal 
information about him from his wallet, and could potentially have used Mr Rs 
fingerprint to unlock the phone while they were assaulting him, I think there is a clear 
point of compromise where they could have gained access to his phone, thereby 
giving them access to everything they needed to set up and then use Apple Pay
- The pattern of spending may not be what Starling usually sees with fraud cases, but 
this is not enough to make me think that it wasnt a fraudster who made these 
payments
- Im satisfied with Mr Rs explanation for why he chose not to ask the police to 
continue with their investigations, and I dont think what Mr R and the police have 
said about this is contradictory in any way
- Starling has not put forward any plausible alternative explanation for what may have 
happened here
With all this in mind, Im not satisfied that Ive seen enough to show Mr R was responsible for 
or consented to the disputed payments. It follows that I dont think it is reasonable for 
Starling to have held him liable for these payments.Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Starling to put things right by:
- Refunding to Mr R the disputed payments made on 11 October 2021  totaling 
£9,997.99.
- Pay 8% simple interest* on those payments from the date they were made until the 
date of settlement
- Pay Mr R £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to him
*If Starling considers that its required by HMRC to deduct tax from this interest it should tell 
Mr R how much it has taken off. Starling should also give Mr R a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Starling Bank Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman