DRN-1985204
The complaint
Mrs K complains as a director of P, a company, complains that in respect of a flood claim 
made on its commercial insurance policy, Endsleigh Insurances (Brokers) Ltd delayed or 
failed to provide information to the insurer causing P to lose money.
 
What happened
In March 2018, following a flood at its business premises P made a claim to its insurer under 
its commercial policy, in respect of contents and business interruption. In the course of 
dealing with the claim, the insurer advised that it wasnt aware of Ps charitable status so 
couldnt cover the education and trading revenue losses. It checked the position with 
Endsleigh, but not until March 2019. At that stage Endsleigh advised that it had spoken to 
the insurer to advise of the position in 2012 when the policy started, but it wasnt able to 
produce telephone records of this, due to the lapse of time. It urged the insurer to accept the 
claim. The insurer agreed to accept the claim in full in May 2019.
Mrs K believed that Endsleigh was responsible for delaying the claim and failing to keep 
records. Endsleigh apologised that there was a delay in getting to the point where the insurer 
agreed to accept the claim, but assured Mrs K that it had been liaising with the insurer to get 
to that position.
A separate complaint was made to this service regarding the insurer and compensation was 
agreed.
Our investigator found that Endsleigh had acted reasonably.
Mrs K disagreed and specifically said that Endsleigh should pay the storage charges 
incurred by P in the course of the claim, which hadnt been reimbursed by the insurer. 
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that this decision concerns only Endsleighs actions. Any failures in 
respect of dealing with the claim, and particularly any decisions as to its settlement were the 
responsibility of the insurer. The complaint against the insurer has been dealt with separately 
by this service.
Although the claim was made in March 2018, the evidence from the papers, and particularly 
from the timeline provided by the insurer is that Endsleigh wasnt contacted by the insurer 
about the companys charitable activities until 6 March 2019. Endsleigh responded on 
20 March to say that the policy had been transferred to the insurer and renewed year on 
year and it believed the insurer was at fault. Endsleigh first took on placing the insurance in 
2012. However due to the lapse in time it couldnt provide the telephone records.
Nevertheless Endsleigh asked the insurer to accept that part of the claim, as it had adequate 
cover for this. The insurer continued to refuse to cover the educational and charity losses. 
However Endsleigh provided evidence that the fault may have occurred at the quote stage 
and that lay with the insurers underwriters. Subsequently on 24 May 2019 the insurer said 
that it still would have covered P for its charitable activities had it been informed, so it agreed 
to pay the losses in connection with this.
It appears that Endsleigh took action as soon as it was aware of the query. It tried to see if it 
still had the phone recordings but was unsuccessful. I dont know if the insurer or Endsleigh 
was at fault in not recording accurately the charitable status of P. But there are no 
regulations that require businesses to keep phone recordings indefinitely. As the recordings 
were made in 2012 I wouldnt expect them to have still been available in 2019. Mrs K 
mentioned that the policy was renewed in 2016 so Endsleigh should have acted to keep the 
records then even if they were then available. I believe it was renewed each year from 2012 
to 2018. But I havent seen any reason for Endsleigh to have kept the records for seven 
years or more.
I think if there was any delay in accepting the losses it was the fault of the insurer. Mrs K 
mentioned losses in relation to storage which werent paid by the insurer. That is a matter 
which was fully dealt with in the course of the insurance claim and subsequent complaint. I 
cant see any connection between Endsleighs handling of the query and the losses claimed 
for storage.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman