DRN-4336373
The complaint
Ms C complains that Paymentsense Limited didnt accurately complete a change of address 
request on her account. 
Ms C is represented in bringing this complaint by her partner, Mr C.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms C signed a contract with Paymentsense for the provision of card 
terminals and associated services. At this time, she also entered into a separate contract 
with First Data (now trading as Clover) who would be responsible for processing the card 
transactions.
Ms Cs partner and representative, Mr C, contacted Paymentsense in July 2021 and asked 
for the address to be changed on the account. Approximately eighteen months later, Mr C 
discovered the address had not been updated with First Data.
In June 2023, Mr C contacted Paymentsense and asked why the address hadnt been 
changed with First Data and asked for it to be updated. Paymentsense apologised for their 
error but explained that since the time of the original request, First Datas policies had 
changed, and they required a short, written request and a copy of a utility bill for the change 
to be made. Paymentsense agreed to pass this information across to First Data as soon as it 
was received from Mr C.
Mr C was unhappy with this outcome and brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into matters. He agreed that Paymentsense had made an error but 
explained to Mr C that we wouldnt ask them to change their policies. He said Paymentsense 
had provided a resolution to the complaint and although it caused a minor inconvenience, he 
didnt think it was unreasonable for them to request that Mr C take this additional step to 
ensure the address was updated accurately. 
Mr C was unhappy with this response and said it was wrong that he needed to expend effort 
to correct the mistake Paymentsense had made. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by agreeing that there is no doubt that Paymentsense did make a mistake in July 
2021, at which time they shouldve updated the address correctly. I can see that they did 
advise First Data of the address change at that time, but not in the correct format, which 
resulted in the change of address being unsuccessful. Paymentsense have acknowledged 
and apologised for their error but theyve explained that First Datas process has changed 
and Paymentsense are physically unable to make this change on their customers behalf.
Having reviewed the information provided to us by Paymentsense I can confirm that they 
dont have the ability to change the address with First Data. I understand this has caused a 
minor inconvenience to Mr and Ms C as they now need to provide a short, written request 
and the copy of a utility bill for the change to be made.
Although I appreciate there is an inconvenience involved, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Paymentsense to request that Mr C takes some action to ensure this change is made. Ive 
also not seen that this has caused any financial loss to Ms Cs business nor has it impaired 
the operation of that business in any way. So, I think the explanation and apology from 
Paymentsense is enough to compensate for their error in the circumstances of this case.
I understand that Mr C would like us to instruct Paymentsense to change its process, 
however, as our investigator has already explained, our service wouldnt look to instruct 
Paymentsense to take that kind of action. Security measures like this are put in place to 
protect the account holders and although it is unfortunate that the process changed since Mr 
C first provided the instruction to Paymentsense, I dont think the new process is 
unreasonable or unfair.
However, there seems to have been some confusion caused by the change of name by First 
Data to Clover. I wouldnt expect Mr or Ms C to have necessarily known about this change 
and this caused some confusion for them. So Paymentsense should take this on board and 
be careful in future correspondence with their customers to ensure they are clear about 
which business they are referring to if a name change has taken place.
I appreciate this matter has caused some frustration to Mr and Ms C but if they still wish for 
the address to be changed, they will need to follow the process outlined by Paymentsense 
as there is no other way for this to be done.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont require Paymentsense Limited to take any further 
action unless the required information is provided to them by Mr or Ms C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman