DRN-3163428
The complaint
Mr M complains about the time it took for his mortgage and Help to Buy applications to be 
processed and the additional removal and storage costs he incurred as a result.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M applied, through Connells Limited, for a mortgage and additional loan 
under the government Help to Buy scheme (HTB). The lender issued a mortgage offer and 
the HTB loan was approved, which allowed Mr M to exchange contracts in March 2020 on 
the property he was then planning to buy. Completion was planned for July 2020.
In May 2020 Mr M wanted to change the property he was buying  another plot had become 
available and was now affordable for him as its price had gone down. Connells liaised with 
the lender and HTB to arrange new offers for the new property. Mr M gave notice on his 
rental property in July 2020.
The lender issued an offer on around 5 August 2020. HTB confirmed the amount they would 
lend on around 11 August 2020. Mr M spotted a discrepancy between the figures on the 
HTB loan and the mortgage offer, which his solicitors said would delay completion. Connells 
arranged for the mortgage offer to be amended and the lender issued a revised mortgage 
offer on around 13 August 2020.
Mr M came under some pressure from the developers to complete his purchase of the new 
property. And because Mr M had given notice on his rental property in July, he was due to 
move out by the middle of August. Although Mr M managed to delay moving out for a few 
days, his loans hadnt completed by the time he left. He had to stay with friends for a few 
weeks. And he had to get a new removal company and store his belongings until the 
purchase of his new house completed. That cost him around an extra £1,500.
Mr M said delays in completion were caused by mistakes Connells made and he 
complained. Connells acknowledged thered been some delays and apologised. They also 
offered Mr M £500 compensation. But they didnt agree to pay the removal and storage 
costs. Connells said the reason Mr M had to pay extra moving costs was because hed given 
notice on his rental property before his loans had been approved.
Mr M wasnt happy with Connells response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered what had happened. He came to the view Connells apology and 
the compensation theyd offered was a fair way of resolving things.
He didnt think he could hold Connells responsible for the increase in removal costs, as it 
wasnt possible to know whether any more cost-effective options were available to Mr M at 
the time. Since Mr M didnt agree, I reviewed everything afresh and recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the frustration Mr M felt as a result of what happened, and I note Connells 
accepted it made some mistakes and caused delay. Ive considered carefully what the 
parties have said, and Ive looked at the documents and records theyve helpfully provided. 
Ive then thought about the impact of Connells actions on Mr M and whether Connells did 
enough to put things right. As Ill explain, my provisional view is that I think they did.
Since Ive come to my decision for reasons that are partly different to our investigators, Im 
issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to comment on what Ive said 
before I issue my final decision.
Mr M first made his application for a mortgage and HTB loan in February 2020. He had an 
offer by the beginning of March 2020. Mr M exchanged contracts on the property he 
originally wanted to buy in April with a planned completion date in July.
In May Mr M wanted to change the property he was buying. The lender and HTB had to 
reconsider his application and a valuation of the new property was needed. The lender 
issued a decision in principle in early June. By around 11 June Connells were processing  
Mr Ms new application.
A number of forms needed to be completed by the various parties involved in the transaction 
so the lender and HTB could issue new offers to Mr M. I can see some mistakes were made 
by Connells that contributed to the delays. Theyve acknowledged that, so I wont set out in 
detail the errors they made.
From what Ive seen, despite what went wrong, Connells were prioritising Mr Ms application
 and chasing the other parties involved to progress things as quickly as possible. But 
Connells also accept they should have kept Mr M better informed about what was going on. 
Connells made a number of mistakes over several weeks. And Mr Ms said he was under 
pressure to move out of his rental property and from the developer to complete the 
purchase. So, I can understand it will have been a stressful and frustrating time for him. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think Connells apology and offer of £500 compensation was a 
fair way of resolving Mr Ms complaint about those issues.
Mr Ms explained he had to switch his removal company to a larger one that had more 
flexibility and availability, which initially added £400 to the cost. This increased by around 
another £1,100 when he then had to move in with friends and pay for storage and redelivery. 
Mr M initially told us he gave notice on his rental property on 9 July 2020. At that time there 
were still things that had to be sorted out before Mr Ms purchase could go ahead. They 
included:
The result of the valuation which had only taken place on 6 July and which the lender 
required before they would issue a revised offer for the new property.
An issue HTB had raised on around 7 July about whether Mr Ms borrowing was 
affordable based on his income, which Mr M was made aware of.
I think Mr M would have known these things had to be resolved before he got revised offers.
Hed been through the process once already. Mr M was taking a risk by giving notice on his 
rental property when he did. Whilst I can understand Mr M hoped everything would be sorted 
out by the time he had to move, there was no guarantee hed be able to go ahead with his 
purchase until his loan offers had been formally issued.Mr Ms clarified that he agreed to vacate the property by the end of August with the exact 
date to be confirmed. He says he didnt confirm the actual date until after hed got the 
mortgage offer from the lender on 5 August 2020. But Mr M knew and told Connells on 7 
August 2020 he still hadnt got the ATP from HTB. He said hed managed to put his moving 
date back a few days from 14 to 17 August.
Mr M needed to have both the mortgage and the HTB loan in place before he could buy the 
property. Hed confirmed his moving date on the strength of the lenders mortgage offer 
alone. The ATP wasnt issued by HTB until 11 August. There was still a risk completion 
wouldnt happen within the timescales Mr M had been hoping for when he gave notice in 
July, and when he confirmed a moving date of 17 August and rearranged his removal 
company.
Mr Ms argued if there hadnt been inconsistencies between the mortgage offer and HTB 
loan information, thered have been time to complete and move straight into his new property 
without incurring some of the additional removal and storage costs.
Its not clear to me that the inconsistency was due to anything Connells did. And from what 
Ive seen, I dont think it would have been possible for the information to have been made 
consistent until HTB issued the ATP on 11 August. Thats because HTB hadnt made their 
decision to lend until then. So even if the mortgage offer had included figures for the new 
property  instead of the old one  an adjustment to the mortgage offer would still have been 
needed.
If Im wrong about that, I dont think it matters. The discrepancy was quickly rectified, and the 
lender issued a new offer on 13 August. I dont think the error had a significant impact on the 
time it then took for the loans to complete. The mortgage didnt complete until the end of 
August, several days after Mr M had had to leave the rental property.
In summary, whilst I understand Mr Ms frustration, by giving notice on his rental property 
before he had formal offers on his loans, he risked having to move out before it was certain 
hed get the funds he needed to buy his new property. Nothing Connells did led to Mr M 
incurring the additional removal and storage costs he had to pay.
So, I dont agree Connells should reimburse Mr M those costs. Since I think Connells did 
enough to put things right following Mr Ms complaint, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
uphold his complaint to this service.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Developments
Mr M hasnt made any comments on my provisional decision. Connells said they were happy 
with it and had no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has made any comments on my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman