DRN-2223666
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited calculated the no claims 
discount on her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
As both parties are aware of the background to this complaint I have only provided a 
summary of what happened below. 
Ms W has a private medical insurance policy with AXA. It provides cover for her, and her 
dependent son, Mr W. In February 2018 Mr W claimed on the policy and his no claims 
discount (NCD) was reduced when the policy renewed in October 2018. Mr W made another 
claim in August 2018, but this claim didnt affect the NCD until the following years renewal.  
AXA explained that NCDs were worked out up to three months before a policys renewal. It 
said that meant the August 2018 claim hadnt been included when it had calculated the 
October 2018 renewal. And therefore, had been included at the 2019 renewal. 
Ms W disagreed with the approach AXA had taken. She complained that its policy terms 
surrounding the NCD werent clear, and said AXA hadnt treated her specific circumstances 
fairly. But AXA maintained its position, so Ms W referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and thought AXA had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. He also thought the terms and conditions were clear, and 
didnt recommend that Ms Ws complaint be upheld. 
AXA agreed with our investigators opinion, but Ms W didnt. She reiterated her concerns 
about the clarity of the term, and said AXA should proactively tell consumers their claims 
may affect the following years renewal if being made within that three month window. Ms W 
also said she hadnt been able to arrange Mr Ws August 2018 claim any sooner because 
the consultant had been away, and she didnt think AXA had managed her situation in the 
right way. So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms W feels very strongly about what has happened, and I empathise with the 
distress shes explained Mr Ws health concerns caused her. But I wont be upholding her 
complaint for the following reasons:
The policy does set out that AXA calculates NCDs up to three months before a 
policy renews. The relevant terms and conditions read, We work out your discount 
up to three months before your renewal date. This means that if you make a claim in 
the three months before your renewal, this may not affect your discount until the 
following years renewal. I dont think this term is unclear or ambiguous, although I 
appreciate that Ms W thinks it is. 
At the point the policy renewed in October 2018 AXA had already calculated the 
relevant NCD three months prior. So although there had been a claim in August 2018 
too, that hadnt been included in the previous NCD calculations and, therefore, didnt 
affect the NCD until the following policy year.
Ms W says the August 2018 claim should have been linked to the March 2018 one  
because the August claim was follow-up from Marchs one. But the policy also 
explains, When working out your discount, we use the date we paid a claim, 
regardless of when you received the treatment [] So if you received treatment on 1 
January and we paid for it on 14 January, the date of your claim would be 14 
January.. As AXA paid for Mr Ws claim in August 2018, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of it to calculate the two claims separately in line with this. 
Ms W says she wasnt able to schedule an earlier consultation for Mr W because the 
consultant was away doing charity work. I appreciate Ms Ws frustration surrounding 
the timing of the second claim, but AXAs role is to authorise and pay for eligible 
treatment. It is not responsible for arranging or scheduling that treatment. So given 
that the responsibly for arranging and/or scheduling such treatment lies with the 
member and treatment provider, I cant fairly hold AXA liable for the consultants lack 
of availability.
I understand Ms W thinks AXA should have done more to tell her the NCD may not 
be affected until the following year. But AXA had already set that out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And as a consumer, Ms W would have been reasonably 
expected to have read those terms and conditions so as to understand the way her 
policiy operated and, where appropriate, to help inform her decisions about how she 
may or may not want to use the policy in view of her own induvial circumstances.
For the reasons given above, I think AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ws policy and I am not persuaded that there are any fair and reasonable grounds on 
which to depart from them. So, while I realise Ms W will likely be further disappointed, I will 
not be directing AXA to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman