DRN-3174403
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation
to a deferred defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that he held. Portal 
processed the transfer of Mr Ls DB scheme benefits to a personal pension to allow access 
to tax-free cash on an insistent client basis. Mr L says that he didnt understand the risks 
involved and wasnt put in a position to make an informed decision. Mr L says hes suffered 
a loss as a result of Portals actions.
What happened
Mr L contacted Portal in 2012 to discuss his pension and retirement needs after receiving 
what he says was an invitation for a free pension review. 
In December 2012 Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, 
which it deemed to be moderately adventurous. 
On 5 December 2012 Portal sent Mr L a letter saying that it recommended he didnt
transfer his DB pension scheme benefits because the growth rate required to match his
guaranteed benefits was 9.68% and because hed be giving up a guaranteed pension of just 
over £2,500 a year from age 65. But Portal said it could still help Mr L if he wanted to go 
ahead and it asked him to complete and return the enclosed insistent client forms.
On 7 December 2012 Mr L returned the insistent client forms. On one form he indicated he 
wanted to go ahead, and on a separate form he signed to acknowledge that his new pension 
was unlikely to achieve the required growth rate and that he was likely to be worse off in 
retirement. It also said that he wanted to proceed as his main priority was to release funds 
rather than retirement planning.
On 11 December 2012 Portal sent Mr L a suitability report setting out its advice. The report
outlined Mr Ls circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was employed; 
aged 57; he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of £7,000; he had around 
£2,000 in investments; and he had an outstanding loan costing him £200 a month.
The report set out the details of Mr Ls existing DB pension scheme, which
included the transfer value. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr Ls existing 
scheme benefits was 9.68%.
The report said that Mr Ls objective was to access the maximum tax-free cash entitlement 
to pay off his mortgage.
Portal noted that it had explored with Mr L other ways to generate the money required to
meet his objective - but said that he didnt want to take on further lending or pay any interest 
and he didnt want to re-mortgage due to the redemption penalties involved.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended
that Mr L shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would
be giving up  but it said that Mr L had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr L transfer his pension to
enable him to meet his objective and it set out which pension provider and product it
recommended.
Mr L signed the relevant application forms and the transfer went ahead. Mr L
received his tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were invested in an investment 
portfolio, which Portal deemed matched Mr Ls attitude to risk.
In October 2020 Mr L complained, via a representative to Portal about the advice he 
received.
Portal considered the complaint and issued its final response to Mr L in December 2020. In 
summary it said that the complaint had been brought out of time because Mr L ought to have 
known he had cause for complaint more than three years before he did. It pointed to the 
point of sale documentation and the fact that Mr L had moved his pension to another 
provider in 2016 as evidence that Mr L had an awareness of the issues at these times. It 
therefore said it wouldnt investigate the merits of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and they 
concluded the complaint was not out of time  they didnt think Mr L was on notice that 
something might have gone with the advice he received sooner than said he did  so they 
said it was a complaint we could consider.
Because Portal agreed with the investigators conclusions, an investigator then considered 
the merits of the complaint and they concluded the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
they said they didnt think Mr L was a true insistent client. They said Portal only provided Mr 
L with its suitability report and the reasons why he shouldnt transfer out of his DB scheme 
after hed been asked and given his decision to go against Portals advice. They said they 
didnt think this was fair because Mr L wasnt able to make an informed decision and he 
didnt likely understand the implications of completing the insistent client forms. They said Mr 
Ls objective of paying off his mortgage couldve been achieved by other means  but that in 
any event it didnt appear that he needed to repay it at this time and it couldve waited until 
he reached 65. Overall they said Mr L wasnt sufficient experienced or qualified to be 
described as an insistent client and they thought hed have likely remained in his DB scheme 
if things had happened as they should have.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said:
it acted fairly and reasonably and conducted its advice in Mr Ls best interests.
Mr L signed the relevant documentation, which explained the benefits he would be giving 
up and that the transfer was against Portals advice.
its process meant Mr L was not put under any pressure to proceed and he was given 
time to digest the information he received.
the suitability report repeatedly said that its recommendation was that Mr L should not 
transfer his pension.
it believes it followed the correct insistent client process and says that its postal
correspondence process demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions.
it believes Mr L wouldve transferred his pension regardless of Portals involvement 
because he was intent on paying off his mortgage early as recorded in the fact-find.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to 
me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr L as an insistent client - this is a
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook, which required Portal to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In 
addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr L had to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
Portal says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Ls best interests. It says that it
followed the correct insistent client process and that its postal correspondence process
demonstrates best practice for insistent client transactions.
Mr L says that he didnt understand the risks involved and wasnt put in a position to make 
an informed decision. He says the insistent client paperwork was pre-drafted and he was 
advised he had to sign it to proceed with the transfer and obtain the tax-free cash.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Ls best interests. And
I think Mr L likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending he should
go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because, following the telephone discussion Portal had with Mr L on 5 December 
2012 about his pension options, it sent him what I think can only be described as
a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to
match Mr Ls guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and because hed be giving up a
guaranteed pension of around £2,500 a year from age 65, it recommended Mr L should not
transfer away from his DB scheme.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Ls best interests. But the information in this letter was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later 
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr L had 
very little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best 
interests.Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr L should not
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And while it said this would be
against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr L needed to complete
and return to pursue this option. And the first option he was presented with was to go against
Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes
me that Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Ls
best interests, it wouldve given more detail about its advice and recommendation upfront 
and placed greater emphasis on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ls best interests. 
And it also wouldnt have told him at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit 
a brief one - how he could put it aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis 
placed on how Mr L could ignore Portals recommendation was unfair to Mr L and wasnt in 
his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr Ls best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think that, given the context and the emphasis 
placed on this, Mr L could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was
recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr L had limited knowledge or experience of
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. While I can 
see the fact-find recorded that Mr L had £2,000 in realisable assets, its not entirely clear 
that this was in risk-based investments. This is because the adviser has recorded the sum of 
£2,000 and placed brackets around all of the different types of asset this might have been, 
including cash deposits. But even if it was in risk-based investments, I dont think a £2,000 
investment reasonably means Mr L was an experienced investor. In my view his experience 
was limited.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was categorised by Portal as moderately adventurous. This might 
suggest Mr L was someone who therefore possessed the experience and/or confidence to 
make decisions about investments and take matters into his own hands. But I have serious 
concerns about how Portal arrived at this overall categorisation  I dont think this accurately 
reflected the level of risk Mr L was prepared to take. I say this because looking at the series 
of questions Portal asked Mr L in assessing his attitude to risk, I think there are a number of 
inconsistencies, which suggest Mr L didnt fully understand the questions being asked of 
him. For example, the first two questions recorded that Mr L agreed he would be described 
as a cautious person and that he wasnt comfortable about investing in the stock market. But 
in a later question he said that he was willing to take a substantial financial risk to gain 
substantial rewards. 
I think Portal shouldve picked up on these inconsistencies and clarified things with Mr L. 
Because it didnt, I think it categorised Mr L as someone who was willing to take more risk 
than I think he was reasonably prepared to take. And so I think Portal attributed Mr L as 
having far greater investment knowledge and experience than he actually had.
Had Portal properly considered things, I think it shouldve put it on notice that it had to be 
careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route - I think it ought reasonably 
to have concluded that Mr Ls attitude to risk was significant lower than moderately 
adventurous and that he was not as knowledgeable or experienced in financial matters.
The insistent client form Mr L signed was a template. It wasnt in his own words. I accept it 
wasnt a requirement at the time - but given Mr Ls level of experience, I think it wouldve been important for Portal to ensure Mr L understood what he was getting into. And a good 
way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that he understood the 
recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed.  In the absence of this, and 
because crucially as I indicated earlier on, he hadnt yet received Portals written 
recommendation and advice and had time to digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway, 
Im not persuaded Mr L was able to make an informed choice here.
 
It was only after receiving Mr Ls confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer
that Portal sent Mr L its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation,
advising Mr L to transfer his benefits to a personal arrangement to facilitate a tax-free cash 
withdrawal. And this was all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr L
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr L advice on the advice to transfer,
and only considered the suitability of the proposed solution in the full suitability report after
securing Mr Ls confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr L transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this
undermine and cloud the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively 
recommended that Mr L transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring 
out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ls best interests, it 
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable 
for him. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full 
suitability report Mr L likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB 
scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr Ls objective was to pay off his mortgage early. The fact-find provides a little more detail 
here  it says that Mr L wanted to start saving, so by taking the maximum tax-free cash to 
pay off his mortgage, this would allow him to do so immediately. 
Firstly it strikes me as odd as to why Mr L had to repay his mortgage to be able to start 
saving. I say this because his mortgage was only around £100 a month and his disposable 
monthly income was recorded as being £1,000. So it seems to me that Mr L was already in a 
position to start saving if thats what he really wanted to do. I think it mightve been helpful in 
considering Mr L wants and needs for Portal to have understood what he wanted to save for.
But secondly it appears to me that Mr L couldve ultimately met his objective by different 
means  and means already as his disposal  which Portal ought reasonably to have 
explored and considered before continuing to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer 
Mr Ls pension. I dont think it was necessary for Mr L to gain access to his pension monies 
early to achieve this.
Mr Ls mortgage term on his interest only mortgage ran to 2020  so eight years from the 
time of the advice, by which time Mr L wouldve reached his normal retirement age of 65. 
Given that Mr L intended to work until 65 and his monthly budget was not under any 
pressure, it doesnt appear that Mr L needed to repay his mortgage at this time.
Mr L couldve waited until he reached 65 at which point he couldve repaid it through savings 
 which he had the surplus income to be able to generate over the preceding eight years   
or by utilising an element of the tax-free cash from his DB scheme pension. I cant see that 
Portal explored this. Portal says that Mr L was clear that he wanted to pay off his mortgage. 
But Portal wasnt there as an order taker - its role was to discern what Mr L wants and needs 
were and give suitable advice accordingly. It had to act in his best interests.I can see that Portal recorded that it discussed the alternative ways Mr L couldve raised the 
required cash to meet his objective. But I dont think these make any sense in the context of 
what Mr L was trying to achieve. Its recorded that taking out a loan and the possibility of Mr 
L re-mortgaging were discussed with him. But why would Mr L want to take out a loan to use 
the funds to repay his mortgage? Or consider re-mortgaging when he wanted to repay it? 
Neither of these are plausible alternatives nor appropriate in the circumstances.
What Portal couldve discussed with Mr L  in addition to being clear with him that he didnt 
need to repay his mortgage at this time as I said above  was the possibility of him using his 
not inconsiderable monthly surplus income to make overpayments to his mortgage. While 
there was a possibility that Mr Ls mortgage contained early redemption penalties, in my 
experience most lenders at the time accepted overpayments up to a certain limit without 
charging a fee. Alternatively and as I indicated above, Mr L couldve saved his surplus 
income to put aside for repayment of his mortgage either once his savings reached the 
outstanding mortgage balance or when the mortgage term expired. Neither of these things 
required Mr L to accept any investment risk with DB scheme pension benefits  his sole 
pension provision.
So, while Im mindful that there were no specific insistent client rules in place at the time, I 
consider the rules that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due 
care and skill and act in Mr Ls best interests. And by not seeking to fully understand and 
address Mr Ls objective or to clearly communicate that there were other ways he could 
ultimately meet his objective before carrying things out, Im not persuaded this was acting in 
Mr Ls best interest. Ultimately, I dont think Mr L was able to make an informed choice here 
 it seems to me that Mr L most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed this was 
the only way to meet his objective. And because importantly Portal actually gave Mr L a 
positive recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme, which I think wouldve given Mr L 
the impression that Portal agreed with his approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr L can truly be regarded as an insistent
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client.
Portals overall communication with Mr L wasnt clear or fair and it didnt allow him time to
think carefully about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer. It didnt act in Mr Ls best
interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether
Mr C wouldve still gone ahead. Portal says that because Mr C was intent on paying off his 
mortgage as recorded on the fact-find, this is evidence that he wouldve gone ahead with or 
without Portals involvement. 
But I disagree. I think that, if Portal had acted in Mr Ls best interests, providing a 
recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, 
and addressing Mr Ls true objectives at the time advising him on the alternatives already at 
his disposal, I dont think Mr L wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
As Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr L was an experienced investor such that he
possessed the requisite knowledge or had the confidence to go against the advice he was
given. I think he relied solely on the advice and process Portal employed. 
As I said above it wasnt Portals role to simply transact what Mr L thought he wanted or 
thought was a good idea. So if things had happened as they should have and if Portal had emphasised the importance of these funds to Mr Ls future retirement, I dont think Mr L 
wouldve insisted on accessing them and gone ahead with the transfer.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals failings. I consider Mr L would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct process 
followed.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr L couldve taken his DB pension benefits without reduction at 
age 65. So, I think compensation should be based on Mr L accessing his benefits at age 65 
in line with the usual assumptions in the FCAs guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of a final decision.
 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services 
LLP to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept a final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept a final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman