DRN-4115823
The complaint
Miss R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly 
by agreeing to increase her overdraft to a limit that wasnt affordable which has led to 
financial difficulties. 
What happened
In March 2018 Miss R held a bank account with NatWest with an overdraft limit of £2,250. 
This was increased to £3,500 in October that year with further increases to £4,000 in 
January 2019 and £5,500 in November 2019.
Miss R complained to NatWest that it acted irresponsibly by lending to her and allowing her 
to increase her overdraft limit on a number of occasions.  NatWest didnt uphold the 
complaint and Miss R referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that there 
wasnt anything in the information provided by Miss R, her account history or credit checks 
that suggested the overdraft lending was unaffordable and thought that NatWests checks 
went far enough. 
Miss R doesnt agree. She says the charges on her overdraft were such a large proportion of 
her income that she was forced to borrow again and that her monthly expenses were more 
than her income and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 May 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I was proposing to uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither NatWest or Miss R have added anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is it needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss R 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Miss Rs overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the 
checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Miss R would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
In the six years before raising her complaint NatWest approved overdraft limit increases from 
£2,250 to £5,500. The applications for the limit increases were made online. NatWest says 
all applications were credit scored taking into account information Miss R provided about her 
income and how she had managed her account with it, as well as information held by other 
lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information NatWest 
was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her with the overdraft facility she 
requested.
And having viewed Miss Rs statements leading up to the January 2019 increase to £4,000, I 
can see that although Miss R did use her overdraft, she had a regular salary upwards of 
£3,000 coming in and often saw and was able at times to maintain a credit balance for a 
reasonable period of time. 
I can also see that although Miss R had some regular payments going out a significant 
amount of her spending was on non-committed and discretionary transactions such as retail, 
fast food and leisure. I also note that Miss Rs credit report showed up no adverse data at 
the time the January overdraft limit increase was approved.  So I think NatWests checks 
went far enough and I dont think NatWest acted unfairly in increasing her limit up until this 
point. 
But I dont agree that NatWests checks went far enough for the November 2019 increase to 
£5,500. NatWest will be familiar with the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges and approving increases in overdraft limits. So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I think by November 2019 Miss Rs statements show she was spending more time and going 
deeper into her overdraft. As soon as Miss Rs salary came in the money would go back out 
again and overall the overdraft wasnt reducing. I also note that it was around this time she 
started paying nursery fees of around £1,000 a month. 
Miss R was struggling to manage her existing overdraft limit and I think that NatWest ought 
to have realised that continuing to allow Miss R to use her overdraft in this way wasnt in her 
best interests and there was a significant risk that she may not be able to pay back what she 
already owed within a reasonable period of time - let alone increased amounts. 
So I currently dont think NatWest should have allowed Miss R to increase her limit to £5,500 
or continued offering the overdraft on the same terms. And instead NatWest should have 
treated Miss R with forbearance.
As NatWest didnt react to Miss Rs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. And this means that it should put 
things right.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint for NatWest to put things right by:Reworking Miss Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from November 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Miss R to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Rs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman