DRN-3851708
The complaint
Mr D complains that  Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application. 
What happened
In 2013 Mr D applied for a Halifax credit card. In his application, Mr D said he earned 
£35,000 and was a homeowner. Halifax completed a credit search and says it found around 
£800 per month of payments to other creditors as well as a mortgage. Halifax says it used 
estimated outgoings and applied its lending criteria before approving Mr Ds application. The 
credit limit was set at £4,100. Mr D completed a balance transfer a short time later. 
The credit card was repaid in 2020. Last year, Mr D complained that Halifax had lent 
irresponsibly by approving his credit card application. Halifax didnt agree and didnt uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint and upheld it. They thought Halifax 
had failed to carry out proportionate checks and that, had it done so, it wouldve declined 
Mr Ds application. Halifax didnt agree and said Mr Ds bank statements showed the credit 
card was affordable. Halifax also said Mr D hadnt contacted it about being in financial 
difficulties and that his credit card balance was repaid. Halifax asked the investigator to 
consider reviewing their position before referring the complaint for appeal. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their view and said they thought Mr Ds 
complaint should be upheld with all interest and charges applied to his credit card being 
refunded. Halifax didnt respond so the complaint was referred for decision. Halifax later 
requested extensions but no further response was received. As Halifax didnt respond to the 
investigator, Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ds complaint. There are overarching questions that I need to answer in 
order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ds complaint: 
- Did Halifax complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D I 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been 
able to do so? 
- Did Halifax act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Checks should be borrower focused and take into account various factors, like the amount 
being lent, the costs to the borrower each month, credit history and the consumers income 
and outgoings. The full rules can be found in CONC and information about how we consider 
this type of complaint can be found on our website. 
Ive started by considering whether the checks Halifax completed in its application were 
proportionate. Halifax says it took Mr Ds income and looked at his credit file. Halifax found 
regular credit commitments for around £800 a month for other borrowing and when it 
completed a credit search. Mr Ds forwarded a copy of his credit file that goes back to 2014  
around a year after the application was approved. Whilst it doesnt provide balances at the 
time of Mr Ds application, it does show he had several active credit cards, loans and a large 
overdraft facility. Even if not all those credit cards had outstanding balances, I think the 
availability of that level of unsecured credit wouldve been something Halifax had to 
consider. 
The credit file shows Mr D had two loans with repayments totalling around £600 and at least 
two credit cards that had outstanding balances. In the month before Mr D applied to Halifax 
he made a payment of around £200 to one credit card provider and £30 to another. I also 
think its reasonable to note Mr D had a large overdraft facility at the time of application and 
had between £7,000 and £8,000 outstanding. Halifaxs bank statements show it charged 
Mr D around £95 a month for being overdrawn. 
In my view, the level of outgoings and size of Mr Ds outstanding commitments shouldve let 
Halifax know it was likely hed struggle to repay the balance in a sustainable way. I think 
Halifax shouldve considered completing more comprehensive checks before approving
Mr Ds application. So Ive gone on to think about what Halifax wouldve found if it had 
carried out better checks. 
Theres no set list of checks Halifax had to complete. There are options like asking for 
evidence of income or reviewing bank statements available. In this case, Mr D had his 
current account with Halifax and has forwarded a copy of his bank statements immediately 
preceding his application. Having looked at Mr Ds bank statement, I agree with the 
investigator that Halifax lent irresponsibly when it approved his application. 
Mr Ds statement show regular credit commitments and charges totalling around £950 a 
month. Whilst some of the payments made were for loans, the overdraft and credit card 
balances appear to have been subject to minimum payments without impact to the 
outstanding balance. Given the size of Mr Ds overdraft, his borrowing history, what he 
already owed and his income, I think Halifax shouldve been sure Mr D could afford to not 
only manage the minimum payments but be in a position to repay the balance in a 
sustainable way. In my view, the evidence on file shows the credit card wasnt in a position 
to sustainably repay the borrowing. I agree Halifax lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr 
Ds credit card application. As I think Halifax lent irresponsibly, Im upholding Mr Ds 
complaint and directing it to settle as follows: 
- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied.
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr D along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Halifax should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mr Ds credit file.
- Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Halifax should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr D for the remaining amount. Once Mr D has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax UK to settle in line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman