DRN-4086282
The complaint
Mr Q complained that he was mis-sold a home insurance policy by Mortgage Advice Bureau 
(Derby) Limited (MAB) which led to him being unable to make a claim for an escape of 
water at his home.
What happened
MAB acted as a mortgage broker, securing a mortgage for first time buyer Mr Q. As part of 
the process, Mr Q said he asked MAB to arrange insurance cover for his property. When his 
mortgage confirmation came through, the email Mr Q received confirmed his insurance 
cover was in place.
Mr Q then had a leak at his property which caused significant damage. When Mr Q went to 
make a claim against his insurance cover, he was told by MAB that it hadnt arranged it. Mr 
Q wants MAB to honour his claim and indemnify him for the damage.
MAB said it never provided Mr Q with insurance cover. Mr Q initially signalled he wanted to 
have a protection review to discuss his insurance needs amongst other requirements. 
However, MAB said they were unable to contact Mr Q to have a discussion around his 
requirements, so his insurance needs were never received.
MAB said it didnt collect any information (e.g., house details, excess requirements etc) from 
Mr Q to enable it to source a suitable insurance product. It said it hadnt provided Mr Q with 
any quotes for cover or details of cover.
MAB did acknowledge that it sent Mr Q an email which included confirmation insurance 
cover was in place. But it said it was sent in error and it offer £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the confusion caused. However, it said based on the balance of 
probabilities, given that the discussion around policies, the property, and features and 
benefits did not occur, and you were not in receipt of any illustrations or a Suitability Letter, 
and did not agree to a monthly premium, I believe it should have been apparent to you that 
no recommendation had been made.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said MAB didnt have ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring buildings insurance was in place at the time of completion, so 
didnt think it was reasonable to hold MAB accountable for indemnifying the damage. She 
also thought Mr Q shouldnt have relied on the email that MAB sent. Mr Q disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 29 March 2023. I said:
Mr Q was a first-time buyer of a property. Hes said he wasnt familiar with the process of 
arranging insurance for a property. MAB said it hadnt done a fact-finding exercise to equip it 
with the information to allow it to source insurance cover. For example, it didnt know details 
of the house, what cover was required or what excess. Mr Q said MAB had collected a lot of 
information about his circumstances and his house to allow it to arrange a mortgage for it. 
So, he thought the details collected were sufficient for insurance to be arranged.
Its difficult for me to assess Mr Qs knowledge of whats required to enable insurance to be 
arranged, but I think as a first-time buyer its likely Mr Q would not have experienced 
purchasing home buildings insurance before. Ive also considered that buying a home for the 
first time would be quite a stressful decision and process to complete, so I think Mr Q would 
be quite reliant on experts, such as MAB to navigate him through the process.
When Mr Q received an email from MAB telling him he had insurance in place, he said he 
assumed this was correct. I think this is a fair assumption for Mr Q to make. I appreciate 
MAB said it tried to recall the email and have shared a screenshot of evidence this. 
However, Im not convinced the recall wouldve worked on the email as Mr Q had already 
opened it. At this stage, I wouldve expected MAB to do more to make sure Mr Q knew this 
was an error  I think it shouldve called Mr Q and sent a follow up email / letter to explain 
what had occurred. MAB shouldve clearly communicated insurance wasnt in place.
MAB did say it sent a correction email immediately after the error occurred, but Mr Q denies 
receiving this. I havent seen evidence to support this was sent, so I have assumed it wasnt. 
I also havent seen any evidence Mr Q explicitly changed his mind and indicated to MAB he 
didnt want them to arrange his insurance cover.
I can see MAB did sent a postal letter on 21 May which said Mr Q had advised he didnt 
want to consider a recommendation for several listed risks, which included damage to 
property. Mr Q said he didnt receive this letter. However, I dont think the letter is clear 
anyway. So, even if it was received, I dont think it was likely to prompt any action from Mr Q. 
The letter reads that Mr Q stated he didnt want an insurance recommendation, but then 
goes on to confirm MAB hadnt spoken to Mr Q or been able to contact him  so I dont think 
it couldve concluded what it did.
I think the facts remain Mr Q received an email stating he had insurance in place  there is 
evidence of this. He wasnt an experienced home buyer, so I dont think he wouldve thought 
anything was wrong. I think he genuinely thought he had cover. There isnt evidence that 
MAB contacted Mr Q and confirmed with him this was an error. The letter on 21 May also 
confirmed Mr Qs mortgage wouldnt go ahead unless insurance was in place. As his 
mortgage had been granted, I cant see why Mr Q would reasonably have thought he didnt 
have cover.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint as I think based upon the evidence Mr Q was 
likely to think his cover had been arranged. Although, MAB werent responsible for providing 
cover, I think its error led to Mr Q to believe he had cover. Therefore, I intend for MAB to 
indemnify Mr Q for the loss he has experienced from the escape of water incident. If MAB 
can provide evidence that Mr Q was reasonably informed about the error, then Im likely to 
re-consider my decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Q accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
MAB didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any further information, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mortgage Advice Bureau (Derby) 
Limited to:
Indemnify Mr Q for the loss he has experienced from the escape of water 
incident.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman