DRN-3624357
The complaint
Miss B complains about delays and bad advice when she took mortgage advice from Impact 
Specialist Finance Limited. She says this caused a lot of upset, stress and anxiety. Miss B 
asks that Impact refunds its fee and pays compensation.
What happened
Miss B contacted Impact for mortgage advice in August 2021 as her fixed rate was due to 
expire. Impact recommended that Miss B re-mortgage to secure a lower interest rate. The 
re-mortgage took longer than expected and completed in late April 2022. Miss B complains 
that:
Impact didnt tell her how long it would take to re-mortgage; it caused delays; it didnt tell 
her there were delays with the help to buy scheme. She was on her lenders standard 
variable rate (SVR) for several months.
Impact didnt give her the choice of staying with her lender; didnt give her correct 
information about fees and other costs of re-mortgaging as compared to staying with her 
existing lender; misled her that shed have to pay solicitors costs to stay with her existing 
lender.
Didnt give her good advice about whether it would be cheaper overall to stay with her 
existing lender.
Our investigator said Impact didnt cause delays and wouldnt have known the re-mortgage 
would take so long. He said Impact gave Miss B correct advice about the costs and that, 
overall, it was cheaper for her to re-mortgage.
Miss B didnt agree. She said (in summary) the investigator hadnt understood the order of 
events, she was wrongly advised and wasnt given the choice of staying with her previous 
lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Impact recommended the mortgage. It needed to collect information about Miss Bs 
circumstances and needs to ensure the mortgage it recommended was suitable. 
When Miss B contacted Impact she said her mortgage rate expired at the beginning of 
February 2022. She said she wanted a lower interest rate, but had a low credit score. The 
fact find says Miss B wanted a fixed rate. When she raised a complaint, Miss B said the 
point of taking advice was to save money. 
Impact recommended that Miss B re-mortgage and provided a key facts illustration on 
4 November 2021. In late November 2021 Impact provided a comparison of costs/benefits of 
re-mortgaging or staying with her lender. Miss B decided to re-mortgage. 
Based on the information Impact sent to Miss B about the relative costs, shell pay about £80 
less per month over five years  a saving of about £5,000. It said while she had to pay costs 
to re-mortgage (£999 product fee and £600 solicitors fees, the valuation was free) this would 
still be cheaper than staying with her previous lender.
The mortgage recommended by Impact had a five-year fixed interest rate, Miss Bs monthly 
payments would be lower and shed save money overall by re-mortgaging. I think the 
recommendation was suitable.
However, Miss B says Impact didnt give her clear information about the relative costs of re-
mortgaging or staying with her lender. And it didnt make her aware of the timeframe 
involved in re-mortgaging, during which time she was on her lenders SVR. She says shed 
have been better off staying with her previous lender. Ive considered this below.
Impact didnt tell her how long it would take to re-mortgage; it caused delays; it didnt tell her 
there were delays with the help to buy scheme
Miss B contacted Impact in August 2021. Her re-mortgage completed on 29 April 2022. I can 
understand Miss Bs frustration about this, and why she says she wouldnt have re-
mortgaged if shed known how long it would take. However, I dont think Impact was 
responsible for any delays.
Although Miss B contacted Impact in August 2021 she asked if it would be OK to meet in late 
October 2021 due to her work commitments. Impact made a mortgage recommendation on 
4 November 2021 and sent a list of required information on 6 November 2021. 
Miss B asked for information, to help her decide whether to go ahead. In particular, she 
asked about the comparative costs/benefits of re-mortgaging or staying with her lender. 
Miss B decided to go ahead with the re-mortgage on 21 November 2021. She didnt provide 
all of the required information to Impact until 24 December 2021. 
Impact submitted an application on Miss Bs behalf in early January 2022. While there were 
some issues during the application process  Miss B changed solicitors and her current 
account, and needed to locate her help to buy paperwork  Impact wasnt responsible for 
any delays related to these issues. The lender issued a mortgage offer on 31 January 2022. 
Impact wasnt in control of the process after this point. It seems the conveyancing process 
took longer than usual, possibly due to the help to buy process. Miss B says Impact ought to 
have advised her of the likely timeframe as it knew she had a help to buy mortgage.
We asked Impact what advice it had given Miss B about possible delays with the help to buy 
scheme. It said once it was aware that Miss B had a help to buy mortgage it told her shed 
need to contact the provider for information, such as her balance. It said while it could give 
general guidance, the help to buy provider would explain its fees and timescales. Impact 
said there are a number of help to buy providers and it wouldnt necessarily know if one had 
timing issues. 
We asked Miss B for information and evidence to understand the cause of the delays with 
the conveyancing process, such as emails from the help to buy provider or her solicitor. Miss B repeated what shed said before about why she was unhappy with the advice from 
Impact. She didnt provide evidence that the cause of delays after 31 January 2022 related 
to issues with the help to buy scheme, and that these were issues that Impact should have 
been aware of and told her about.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Impact caused delays with Miss Bs re-
mortgage or could have been aware at the outset that the re-mortgage would take so long.
Impact didnt give her the choice of staying with her lender; didnt give her correct 
information about fees and other costs of re-mortgaging as compared to staying with her 
existing lender; misled her that shed have to pay solicitors costs to stay with her existing 
lender
Miss B says Impact should have given her the choice of staying with her lender and taking 
out a new product. She says she had to contact her lender to check this was possible and if 
shed have to pay solicitors fees. She says she had to correct the information provided by 
Impact.
Impact accepted that it had thought the lender required a re-mortgage process (which would 
involve legal fees). It sent a new costs comparison without solicitors costs and at the 
lenders latest product rates in late November 2021. I appreciate that Miss B feels she did 
the work here  and I agree its unsatisfactory that she had to contact the lender and correct 
some of what shed been told by Impact. However, Miss B was aware that she could stay 
with her lender if she wanted to, and the relative costs of doing so, before she went ahead 
with re-mortgaging. 
Impact said it told Miss B shed need to contact her help to buy provider for information. It 
said it was for the help to buy provider to provide information about its fees, which were 
between the provider and Miss B. 
I think Impact made Miss B aware of the costs of re-mortgaging, including its own fees. She 
signed and returned Impacts terms of business in mid-December 2021. This included 
agreeing to pay its fee and that this could be deducted from completion funds if not paid by 
then. 
What happens now?
Miss B says the service she received from Impact wasnt what shed expected. I understand 
that the experience of re-mortgaging was stressful and drawn out. But as Ive said, I dont 
think Impact was responsible for that. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Impact to refund its fee. I agree that Impact 
was wrong to tell Miss B that staying with her existing lender would require a re-mortgage 
process. But this was cleared up before she decided to go ahead with the re-mortgage. 
Impact carried out the necessary work to recommend a mortgage and make a mortgage 
application on Miss Bs behalf. I think the mortgage it recommended was suitable, based on 
what Miss B told it about her circumstances and needs. 
While it was unfortunate that the re-mortgage didnt complete in time to avoid Miss B being 
on her lenders SVR, I dont think Impact was responsible for the delays that caused that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman