DRN-3577496
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) closed his account and recorded 
a fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In September 2018, Mr Os account received two transfers for £80. The funds were 
immediately withdrawn in cash. Shortly afterwards, Co-op received notifications from the 
banks, which sent the payments to Mr Os account, stating that the payees of the funds had 
reported being victims of fraud. Co-op reviewed Mr Os account, decided to close it and also 
record a fraud prevention marker against Mr O.
Mr O eventually complained about Co-ops actions. Co-op looked at Mr Os complaint and 
didnt uphold it. As Mr O remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. He didnt think that Co-op had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Co-op has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Co-op must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Co-op also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Co-op had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Co-op has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr O has said that it is unfair he wasnt asked what happened before the fraud marker was 
applied. But the information provided suggests that Co-op did ask Mr O about the payments 
during the course of its investigation in 2018. And Mr O told Co-op he allowed someone to 
his account and withdraw the funds. Since then Mr O told our adjudicator that he couldnt 
remember selling any tickets but if he did sell tickets he would have posted them and then 
he said he may have sold tickets for his friend.
Ive thought about what Mr O has said. But the reality of the situation is that Mr O hasnt 
provided a clear account and in truth its difficult for me to place much weight on his version 
of events given hes been so inconsistent. And even allowing for the time that has passed, I 
would expect him to have recalled what happened and at the very least that he had 
discussions with the bank as his account was closed shortly afterwards. 
Co-op received notifications from two different banks regarding customers having reported 
being the victim of a similar scam which resulted in payments for the same amount being 
transferred to Mr Os account. And as Mr O has provided no credible explanation for 
receiving these funds or what happened to them once they reached his account, Im satisfied 
that Co-op was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr O was complicit in the activity which 
took place. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Co-op did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account. And Co-op was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr O was complicit in this. As 
this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Co-op to record a fraud prevention marker 
in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr Os account. I think its worth me explaining that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Os account permitted Co-op to close it where it reasonably decided a 
customer has carried out or tried to carry out fraudulent or illegal activity on the account or 
any other service we operate, or we have reason to think you or they may do so in the 
future. Ive already explained why I think Co-op was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr 
Os account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly 
in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Co-op to close Mr Os account. And Im therefore not upholding Mr Os 
complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O  especially given what hes said about 
the impact the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope Mr O will understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman