DRN-3118132
The complaint
Mrs C trades as a business that Ill refer to as C. She complained that The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly declined a claim under her business 
interruption insurance policy after C was impacted by Covid-19. 
What happened
Mrs C held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. She claimed on her policy 
after being impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
NFU said Mrs Cs claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said the core business 
interruption cover required there to have been damage to property and Covid-19 didnt 
cause damage. They said that the extension for public emergency didnt provide cover 
because it had an exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases and added that, although 
the policy included an extension for human diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases 
listed in the policy. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. She referred to 
the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case, as she 
thought this impacted her claim.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the terms of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of her claim. 
Mrs C asked for an ombudsmans decision as she didnt think it was fair for NFU to turn 
down her claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mrs Cs business. However, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive seen a copy of the policy that was in force at the time of 
Mrs Cs claim and have looked at it carefully to see if NFU have acted fairly, reasonably and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when declining her claim. Whilst Ive 
reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed those sections most relevant to Mrs Cs 
circumstances below.
Damage
The core business interruption cover under the policy 
WE will pay for the loss of INCOME occurring during the INDEMNITY PERIOD 
arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY used by YOU at the PREMISES arising 
from an INSURED PERIL during the PERIOD OF INSURANCE.
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property used by Mrs C 
at her premises so I dont think this provides cover for her claim.
Prevention of access
The cover under the policy is extended by various extensions. This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from DAMAGE to PROPERTY in the 
vicinity of the PREMISES arising from an INSURED PERIL which hinders or 
prevents access to the PREMISES.
For this to provide cover, Mrs Cs loss of income would need to arise from damage to 
property in the vicinity of her premises which hindered or prevented access to her premises. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity 
which hindered or prevented access, so Im afraid this extension doesnt provide cover 
either. 
Public emergency
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from the actions or advice of a 
competent Public Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or 
property occurring within the vicinity of the PREMISES, which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the PREMISES for a period greater than four consecutive 
hours.
WE will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease or the 
suspected or actual presence of an incendiary or explosive device.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
Mrs C has referred to the FCAs test case and asked whether the Supreme Court judgment 
impacted her claim. However, I think the High Court judgment is more relevant to Mrs Cs 
complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term to that within NFUs policy and 
this part of the judgment wasnt appealed.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in 
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of 
the premises.I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the Court. I think Mrs Cs premises 
closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as 
an infectious disease. So, this extension doesnt cover Mrs Cs claim.
Human diseases
This extension says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent authority:
The policy then sets out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 
wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included 
in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set out 
and updated on a Government-defined list. Mrs Cs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
Mrs C has referred to the FCAs test case but whether the claim should be paid still depends 
on the specific wording within the policy. Im afraid in this case the Supreme Court judgment 
doesnt mean NFU needs to pay Mrs Cs claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs C was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFU to pay her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman