DRN-1892259
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly and unreasonably in how it 
dealt with her mortgage application. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Ms S wanted a mortgage, and was unhappy that Nationwide wouldnt lend to her until she 
reached the age of 72, her planned retirement age. Ms S felt her plans hadnt been taken 
into account when she first spoke to a mortgage adviser from Nationwide. Ms S took advice 
from an independent mortgage adviser instead and got a mortgage.
Ms S complained to Nationwide. It said its mortgage adviser had explained the lending 
policies to Ms S, which included a policy that mortgages were offered to members after their 
expected retirement age if there was evidence of contribution to a pension and affordability. 
Nationwide said Ms S planned retirement age had been recorded as 67 and explained 
lenders had to ensure a mortgage was affordable, even after retirement. It added that it 
made information available about mortgages and the support available for those in later life 
through its website and call centre. Nationwide paid £75 compensation for any 
inconvenience caused by any misinformation or poor service given as it wasnt able to 
access the call recording with Ms S. 
Ms S complained to us and said that Nationwides website said it only offered mortgages to 
those in later life who already had a mortgage with it. Ms S said she mightve acted 
differently if Nationwide had offered what she wanted and she was unhappy that Nationwide 
hadnt progressed her application due to incorrect assumptions about her ability to repay. 
Ms S provided evidence of what she wanted to borrow and for how long, and said she was 
never asked about her retirement income, which shed been expecting to be asked to 
provide. She said Nationwide hadnt properly recorded her retirement age or how long she 
wanted the mortgage to last.
The investigator upheld the complaint. Whilst he accepted that a lender could set its own 
lending policies, and needed to see evidence of affordability, in Ms S case, the investigator 
said there wasnt sufficient evidence that Nationwide had asked for Ms S pension details as 
the recording wasnt available. He said Nationwide should pay Ms S an extra £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Nationwide disagreed. It said that the retirement age recorded was 67, and if another age 
had been given, Ms S wouldve been asked for her pension details. Nationwide said that the 
adviser involved was experienced and there was no reason not to believe her record, 
despite the loss of the call recording. It pointed out that if Ms S was expecting to be asked 
about her pension, it wasnt clear why she didnt make this point at the time. 
The investigator explained that Ms S went elsewhere and had provided evidence of her 
pension arrangements. Nationwide provided copies of emails between Ms S and the adviser 
and said that Ms S wanted to progress with the shorter mortgage, and then chose to 
complain. Ms S said she didnt hear from Nationwide within a reasonable time frame and so 
went elsewhere. She pointed out that Nationwide had now changed its lending policies to 
allow mortgages to be offered to those later in life to a more mature age than when she was 
dealing with it.
The investigator said that the term Nationwide was willing to offer Ms S wasnt the term she 
wanted (Ms S wanted 18 years; Nationwide was only willing to consider 10 years), and there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to explain why Ms S couldnt have the longer term. His view didnt 
change. Nationwide said that the evidence available was limited as no application was 
actually made, but it thought it was likely that there was a reason why the term of 10 years 
was discussed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service only deals with individual cases, and its the role of the regulator to look at 
industry practice or the actions of a financial business in relation to more than one complaint. 
This means I cant ask Nationwide to change its practices generally. Lenders are able to use 
their own commercial judgement and set out policies about the basis on which it will lend, 
provided those policies are applied fairly and reasonably. And lending policies change often, 
so later changes are irrelevant to this complaint.
Looking at Ms S case, I wasnt present during her meeting with Nationwides adviser. No 
call recording is available and there are no real contemporaneous notes. All I have are 
screenshots, an email exchange and Ms S account. I have to make my decision on the 
basis of whats more likely than not to have happened, but sometimes surrounding 
documents prepared at the time can help.
A little over a month later after speaking to Nationwide, Ms S got independent mortgage 
advice (as she didnt receive a swift response when she emailed the Nationwide adviser 
about a month after their meeting). Theres a written record of the information given then. 
Ms S wanted an 18 year mortgage, and to borrow until she was 74, not 72; her planned 
retirement age was recorded as 70, not 72. But the adviser did record Ms S planned to have 
the mortgage after her retirement and that she had pension arrangements in place in allow 
her to do so. The amount she wanted to borrow was different to the amount she originally 
wanted to borrow or the amount Nationwide would lend. The broker also commented that 
Ms S might struggle to get particular products as she was moving to the UK from abroad.
Its not unusual for consumers plans to change following discussions of whats available with 
those in the mortgage industry. Even planned retirement ages might change over a period of 
time as theyre only a plan, not a promise. But what remains consistent in Ms S account is 
that she wanted an 18 year mortgage and planned to pay the mortgage using her pension 
once she stopped working. She also explained that she only complained to Nationwide once 
she had an offer elsewhere, and was willing to explore the mortgage it thought it could offer 
before she realised she could get the length of mortgage she originally wanted; this is a 
credible explanation in my view.
Nationwide says that it was told Ms S wanted to retire at 67, which was why it didnt ask for 
details about her pension. The later email exchange confirms that Nationwide didnt ask 
about Ms S pension arrangements. But this answer doesnt deal with Ms S point  she says 
that she wanted an 18 year mortgage and was told she couldnt have it by Nationwide; the 
expected retirement age doesnt mean that the mortgage wouldnt be affordable after 
retirement  it all turned on the pension. Nationwide and Ms S agree she wasnt asked about 
this point. Ms S was a member of Nationwide and the policies Ive been shown make it clear 
borrowing was possible up to 75 at the time.This leaves me with Nationwides account which is that there must be a good reason why a 
10 year term was selected, but it doesnt know the reason; it mentions that the adviser was 
experienced so assumes the reason must be a good one. Theres no explanation from the 
adviser. Ms S says that the term was chosen by the adviser due to issues with her 
retirement age. Ms S was present at the meeting, and been consistent throughout that 
Nationwide didnt ask the right questions about her plans and ignored what she wanted.
Given the lack of a call recording or notes from the meeting, (which is Nationwides 
responsibility), I place more weight on Ms S account. The later note of her meeting with the 
independent mortgage broker supports her account that she never intended to retire at 67 
and wanted a 18 year mortgage term. I also note that Ms S has been clear that this 
complaint isnt about money, but her unhappiness at being treated in the way that she has 
outlined, and she has been consistent in her account that Nationwide didnt ask about her 
pension arrangements in order to consider a longer term. Ms S has given a credible 
explanation why she considered accepting the 10 year term, while Nationwide hasnt been 
able to provide a first-hand account of what happened.
Putting things right
The application was never made in the end, and I cant say with any certainty what wouldve 
happened if Nationwide had considered Ms S for an 18 year mortgage; the broker warned 
Nationwide required three years residency in the UK for example. But Im persuaded that 
Nationwide didnt ask about Ms S pension arrangements and theres no explanation why it 
was willing to consider a 10 year mortgage term, rather than 18 years. Ms S accepted the 
investigators view, and bearing in mind this services guidelines and all the circumstances of 
this complaint, I think another £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Nationwide Building Society should pay 
Ms S another £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the failings set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman