DRN-3244792
The complaint
Mr A has complained through his representative about the shares he bought through
Templeton Securities Limited (at the time an appointed representative of Alexander David
Securities Limited). Templeton Securities later became T S Capital Limited. For
convenience, Ive just referred to Templeton Securities below.
What happened
Ive considered Mr As complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 
2021. Ive repeated here what I said about the background leading up to Mr As complaint. 
Mr A had a personal pension with Standard Life. On 24 January 2014 he signed an
application form for a self invested personal pension (SIPP) with a new provider. Mr A
received a welcome letter from the SIPP provider in March 2014. On 4 April 2014 a transfer
value of £58,247.10 was paid by Standard Life to Mr As new SIPP.
Mr A completed Templeton Securities Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application
Booklet on 9 May 2014. Under the heading, What to expect as a client of Templeton
Securities, it said:
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs. 
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
And, under the heading, Important information regarding your application, it said that
Templeton Securities was required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA) to provide suitable investment advice and services, based on the information Mr A
provided about his circumstances.
Mr A had to fill out his personal details. In the section headed, Important Financial
information, the form said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities,
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing the
suitability of our investment management service we provide.
It recorded that Mr A was a sales manager with no savings or investments other than his
only pension. His property valued at £100,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £70,000. His
net income was £2,000 per month (about £30,000 pa). He had a medium/high attitude to
investment risk. He was intending to invest for more than seven years. He had previous
investment experience but he was a novice when it came to investing in equities and he had
less than a years experience.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have
received and which I agree to.
Ive referred below to what some of those term and conditions said.
Ive also seen that Mr A signed a form of authority on 9 May 2014. It authorised Templeton
Securities to disclose information about Mr As account, to a business, which it seems was
unregulated and based abroad.
Templeton Securities accepted the application on 28 May 2014 and established a trading
account in Mr As name. It sent a welcome letter to Mr A confirming that his account had
been opened and quoting the reference number. The letter said Mr As interest in high risk
products had been noted and gave some warnings, including that some investments might
not be readily realisable any may involve a high risk that some or all of the investment may
be lost.
In June 2014 £57,163.25 was transferred into Mr As account with Templeton Securities.
On 4 June 2014 Mr A sent an email to a named individual at Templeton Securities (who Ill
call Mr C). After giving his name and account references, Mr A said:
I wish to invest £28,581.50 in Eligere Investments plc (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 55
pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £28,581.50 in Emmit plc (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.95 limit for T1
settlement.
Please advise me via email when this has been transacted.
Ive seen a letter dated 11 September 2014 from Templeton Securities to Mr A. The letter,
headed, Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit, said:
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type
of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued a statement about the
promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. It said it had been made aware that
individuals were being encouraged to transfer money from their work pension schemes into
SIPPs and use that money to buy shares in Emmit. It said some investors were being
offered cash back on their investments in Emmit of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by
a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of
their pension assets into Emmit shares and could suffer significant financial loss if theyd
done that without fully understanding what they were doing.
On 31 October 2014 Templeton Securities wrote to Mr A referring to the FCAs statement
and saying that shares in Emmit plc had been suspended.Following the suspension of trading in Emmit shares in October 2014, the shares were
delisted in May 2015. Shares in Eligere Investments plc shares were suspended from
trading in June 2015. And the exchange theyd been listed on, GXG Exchange,
subsequently closed in August 2015. It appears that the Emmit and Eligere shares now have
no value.
I went on to set out the details of the complaint Mr A had made in November 2018 to 
Templeton Securities, details of its response (not upholding the complaint) and how our 
investigation had progressed. 
I also set out my provisional findings in some detail. But, very briefly: 
Under its agreement with Mr A, Templeton Securities could accept an execution only 
instruction from Mr A.
Templeton Securities had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order 
or instruction from Mr A. Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm and in accordance 
with its own terms and conditions, had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules 
and its Principles for Business. Principles 2, 3 and 6 were particularly relevant. 
For the reasons I set out, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr As 
instruction ought reasonably to have made Templeton Securities take a closer look. 
And, had it done so, it wouldve recognized that the investments were clearly 
unsuitable for Mr A. And that other clients were giving virtually identical instructions in 
similar circumstances. 
Templeton Securities shouldve declined to accept Mr As instruction. 
I went on to consider what Mr A wouldve done if Templeton Securities had declined to carry 
out Mr As instruction. I said as follows:
Ive gone on to consider what Mr A wouldve done if Templeton Securities had declined to
carry out Mr As instruction. I think a refusal and an explanation from Templeton Securities
as to why it wasnt prepared to carry out Mr As instruction wouldve normally carried weight.
If Templeton Securities had explained its concerns and queried the instruction, I think most
investors wouldve been prepared to tell Templeton Securities whod suggested the
investment and given instructions as how to go about making it. Including, for example, how
an email instructing an execution only transaction should be worded.
Depending on how Templeton Securities might have put things, and what may have been
said about the dangers of accepting advice from an unauthorised person and the high risk
nature of the investments, a prospective investor may have decided immediately that he
didnt want anything further to do with the unregulated firm.
But I dont think Mr As position was the same as that of other investors. Hes told us that he
was an introducer. He was paid commission for investments made by others who hed have
introduced to the possibility of investing and whod gone on to actually invest. And he
received at least one commission payment, amounting to £4,573.04.
I dont know if that was Mr As full time job and/or his main income source. Hed said he was
a sales manager, earning about £2,000 pm. Details of his employer arent given (and I note
he said hed never worked in financial services) but its possible he was a sales manager for
an unregulated introducer and so that was his main income. On the other hand, it may have
been a supplementary income source.
Either way, as an introducer hed have identified potential investors, promoted theinvestments to them and then facilitated the investments. I think that wouldve included
explaining to would be investors that they could use their pension fund to invest and what
they needed to do if they wanted to do that.
Im not sure whether, if Templeton Securities had queried Mr As investment instruction, hed
have been inclined to explain things any further, given that he was an unregulated introducer
himself. Hed presumably have been aware that Templeton Securities was unlikely to have
viewed an unregulated introducers involvement as favourable. I think Mr A wouldve been
unlikely to have shared too many details with Templeton Securities and hed have probably
just confirmed that he wanted to invest as hed instructed.
In any event, an indication from Templeton Securities that there might be an unregulated
adviser involved wouldnt have been news to Mr A. And, unlike other investors, hed
presumably have been aware that giving investment advice and arranging deals in
investments were regulated activities which, pursuant to section 19 of FSMA, could only be
carried on by an authorised person. As an introducer himself, Mr A wouldnt have been
worried by any suggestion that an unregulated introducer had strayed into territory that was
the preserve of regulated firms. I think hes likely to have maintained that he wanted to
invest as hed instructed and asked Templeton Securities to carry out his instructions.
I also think, given his role, Mr A wouldve been familiar with these types of investments and
hed have known more about them than other investors. Hed also have known the process
involved - transferring a paid up pension to a SIPP  if the investment was to be made using
a pension fund.
Information filed with Companies House appears to confirm that Mr A has held a number of
company directorships, dating from 2012. The last was from April 2015 until the company
was dissolved less than eighteen months later. The name of the company indicates that it
(and Mr A as one of the two directors of the company) was involved in making investments
via frozen pension schemes. At least one of the other two companies of which Mr A was a
director and/or company secretary appears to have been a financial intermediary of some
description.
All in all, it looks like Mr A may have been involved in this type of business for some years. I
think hed have known more about the investments (and/or similar investments) and the risks
involved, than other investors who were acting on a one off basis just in relation to their own
pension fund and whod perhaps been cold called and persuaded to transfer their
accumulated pension fund to invest in niche investments theyd never before even heard of
and didnt understand.
Mr A has told us that he didnt receive any payment in return for investing. I find that
somewhat odd, given that hes admitted that he received commission for investments made
by others. Id have thought hed have wanted to ensure he got a payment in return for
investing his own money. We dont know how the commission payment breaks down and
how many customers it related to. Its possible that there was an element of commission for
Mr As own investments. In that case I think hed have been motivated to go ahead so hed
get that money as well as commission for other investors.
But, even if nothing was paid for his own investments, the commission was an incentive for
Mr A. The payment he received was substantial (£4,573.04). I think hed have wanted to
preserve that income source (whether it was his main or a supplemental income). I cant see
that hed have wanted to jeopardise his position with the introducer and the prospect of
future payments, by not going ahead with the investments.
All in all I think Mr A is unlikely to have been put off by any indication from TempletonSecurities that it wasnt happy to proceed with his instruction. I think Mr A wouldve told
Templeton Securities that he wanted to go ahead anyway.
And, even if Templeton Securities had declined to carry out his instructions, I think Mr A
would have found a way to proceed anyway. I recognise that hed already transferred funds
to Templeton Securities. If it had declined to purchase the shares, Mr A wouldve needed to
have found another broker, asked the SIPP provider to get the money back from Templeton
Securities and then transfer it into the new account. Although that wouldve caused practical
difficulties for Mr A, I think hed have been motivated to proceed with the purchase. And,
given his position as an introducer, he may have had other contacts which he couldve used
to ensure he was able to go ahead with the investments.
Even if Templeton Securities had acted as I consider it should have done, I think Mr A is
likely to have gone ahead with the investments anyway. That means any loss hes suffered
isnt as a result of what Templeton Securities did or didnt do. Mr As losses flow from his
own decision to invest. His position would be the same, despite any failings on Templeton
Securities part.
I went on to consider some other issues, including the application of sections 27 and 28 of 
FSMA. For the reasons I explained, I thought a court would say it was just and equitable in 
the circumstances of this particular case to allow the agreement to stand and 
notwithstanding any involvement by an unregulated firm. 
We havent received any further comments from Templeton Securities in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr As representative did comment further. It said, after initially 
examining its responsibilities and finding Templeton Securities was inadequate, Id referred 
to Mr As own experience as the basis for rejecting the complaint. 
In particular, Mr As representative referred to what Id said about Mr As position not being 
the same as other investors, saying Id misunderstood. Mr As representative made the 
following points: 
Mr A was being advised to invest by advisers he trusted. He was encouraged by his 
adviser to talk to his friends and acquaintances about his investment and how happy 
he was with the adviser and he was promised a commission should any of the people 
he introduced be successfully converted into clients by the adviser. 
Mr A has no experience as an investor, and certainly did not identify potential
investments, promoted the investments to them and then facilitated the investments.
Mr A has never had any understanding of investments and pensions and relied 
completely on the advice of others whom he trusted implicitly. His sole involvement in 
introducing, if it could be called such, was to mention to his friends that he had met 
this adviser and give the advisers details to his friends. He got lucky with the 
commission, as his friends were also drawn in by the sales pitch and apparent 
trustworthiness of the advisers, but none of that was due to Mr As personal advice or 
knowledge about pensions and investments.
The view that Mr A was a savvy investor, who researched investment opportunities,
targeted potential clients and advised them on the investments, is fundamentally 
incorrect. 
Against that background, Mr As representative said I should reassess my (provisional) 
decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive thought about the points made by Mr As representative in response to my 
provisional decision. It is the case that, in my provisional decision, I examined, at some 
length, what Templeton Securities did and found it to be lacking. But, where I find that a 
business hasnt acted as I think it shouldve done, I still need to go on to consider the 
consequences of those failings. If Im satisfied that, despite any shortcomings on the 
business part, the outcome wouldve been the same, then I wont uphold the complaint or 
make any award. Thats because, if the consumer wouldve acted as he did in any event, 
then the business failings wont have caused any loss. So the but for test is failed  it wont 
be the case that, but for the poor advice or other service failings, the consumers losses 
wouldve been avoided. 
And, in Mr As case, I wasnt able to say that, had Templeton Securities acted as it should 
have done and declined to carry out Mr As instruction, Mr A wouldnt have gone ahead. That 
was in part based on what I understood to be Mr As position. And, in particular, that hed 
have known more than other investors. 
Mr As representative has focused on some of what I said about Mr As position. But Id also 
point out what I said about what the information filed with Companies House showed  which 
Mr As representative hasnt challenged or commented on.I maintain that puts things in a 
somewhat different light. I think its not unreasonable to say that Mr A knew more about this 
sort of business  using money held in a frozen pension plan to invest  than has been 
suggested. Im not convinced Mr As position was that, without really understanding the 
position, he simply talked to friends and acquaintances in positive terms about his 
experience and that it was largely fortuitous that he got the commission payment he did. 
From what Ive seen he was a director of at least one business that, from its name at least, 
seems to have been operating in this sort of arena. I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude that his position was fundamentally different from other investors, both in terms of 
what he understood about what he was doing and what hed have done if Templeton 
Securities had declined to act on his instruction. All in all I maintain the views set out in my 
provisional decision and which forms part of this final decision.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman