DRN-3516824
The complaint
Mr R complains that LEBC Group Limited (LEBC) took too long to provide him with an 
advice report. And that the delay caused a financial loss.
What happened
LEBC acted as financial advisers for Mr R. On 10 October 2019 Mr R met with his adviser to 
discuss his pension arrangements. He wanted to access his benefits in a more flexible way 
than his existing provider could offer. Mr Rs adviser said shed arrange for a 
recommendation report to be prepared. 
Mr R signed and returned the required Client Services Agreement on 22 October 2019. 
LEBC said they sent his case to the team who would gather the necessary information and 
prepare the report before Mr Rs adviser reviewed it and then presented it to Mr R. 
Mr R said he called LEBC in December 2019 and at the end of January 2020 as he hadnt 
heard from them. His report was eventually finalised on 27 February 2020. And Mr Rs 
adviser met with him on 6 March 2020 to present the details to him. 
Mr Rs adviser called him on 9 March 2020 to give him the current values of his funds. At this 
point he raised a complaint with LEBC. He complained about the time taken to produce his 
advice report. And also said he was concerned that transferring would leave him open to out 
of market risk. He also felt LEBC hadnt communicated well with him throughout the process.
LEBC issued their final response to the complaint on 1 May 2020. They upheld Mr Rs 
complaint about the delayed report and lack of communication. They apologised and offered 
£300 compensation for the concern and inconvenience theyd caused. LEBC suggested an 
approach to mitigate the risk of being out of the market whilst he transferred. Although this 
approach turned out not to be possible. They acknowledged that Mr R had chosen to wait 
until financial markets were more settled. And that Mr R felt hed been put in a position 
where he had to decide on his transfer when the markets were very volatile. They said there 
was always a risk with this kind of transaction. And that it wasnt possible to time it perfectly 
without the benefit of hindsight. They also said that market movements werent within their 
control. And therefore they didnt think they could be held responsible.
Mr R didnt agree with LEBC. He felt they hadnt fully addressed his concerns about the 
report being delayed due to a lack of staff, due to redundancies. He didnt feel that the report 
shouldve taken four months. He acknowledged that market movements werent within 
LEBC's control, but said that if hed been given the report in a timely manner  late 
November or December 2019  his pension funds wouldve been transferred before the 
period of extreme market volatility. Mr R accepted that his pension funds wouldve 
decreased but said they wouldve been in a better monitored platform that offered the 
drawdown functionality he needed. Mr R was disappointed LEBC had suggested a mitigation 
that wasnt possible. He said he still had the risk of losing out by being out of the market for 
around 10 days. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator felt it should be upheld. He felt 
that LEBC shouldve produced the required report by 10 November 2019, with the pension 
transfer completing two weeks later. He felt that LEBC should consider if Mr R had suffered 
a loss due to the delay. He felt Mr R should be put as close as possible into the position he 
would probably now be in if the advice had been provided in a timely fashion. To put things 
right, he felt LEBC should compare the performance of Mr Rs investment to assess whether 
he had suffered a loss. If there had been a loss, he said LEBC should pay the amount 
calculated into Mr Rs pension plan. He also felt LEBC should pay the £300 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
LEBC didnt agree with our investigator. They maintained theyd recognised the delays 
incurred when theyd offered £300 compensation. 
A second investigator reviewed the complaint. She came to the same conclusion as the first 
investigator and felt the complaint should be upheld, with the same redress. 
LEBC didnt agree with our second investigator. They said they felt their offer of £300 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I understand that Mr R has since followed LEBCs advice. And his transfers and pension 
investments are now complete.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 May 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I acknowledge that the report took longer than it 
shouldve to prepare. And that LEBC shouldve made Mr R aware that it would take longer 
than he expected. I consider that they made an error in communication. But I dont agree 
with either of our investigators that LEBC should consider if Mr R had suffered a loss due to 
the delay. Ill explain why.
LEBC have accepted that they shouldve produced the report more quickly and that they 
shouldve communicated better with Mr R. Ive asked them to provide further information so 
that I could assess when they  and Mr R  couldve reasonably expected the report to have 
been produced. Ive done this so I could assess whether the £300 LEBC offered for the 
delays and poor communication was fair and reasonable. I also looked to see if there were 
any established service standards for the production of reports.
Ive also carefully considered the contents of the February 2020 report recommending the 
pension transfer.
The February 2020 report
This report contains advice to transfer two pension plans from one provider to another in 
order to better meet Mr Rs retirement requirements. From what I understand, the 
recommendations have now been followed in full by Mr R.
Page 22 of the report covered the Disadvantages & Risks of the proposed recommendation 
to transfer. This stated:
It is important that you are aware of both the disadvantages of my recommendations, and 
the risks that are involved.Disadvantages of My Recommendation
 You will be 'out of the market' for a short time whilst the transfer is taking place. During this
time, as you will not be invested, you will not benefit from any growth in the market. 
However, if the market were to fall you would not suffer losses during this period.
As financial markets are, by their nature, volatile, this statement is always true. I do 
acknowledge why Mr R felt that the risk of being out of the market was even greater than 
usual after hed accepted the recommendations in the report in March 2020. Global markets 
were extremely volatile during this period as the world reacted to the coronavirus pandemic. 
But Im satisfied that LEBC had no way of knowing that in taking longer to produce their 
recommendation report than they would usually have expected to they would cause Mr R to 
have a greater risk of being out of the market than usual. The report couldve been finalised 
exactly when Mr R had expected and there couldve been an extremely volatile market then. 
Of course, with the benefit of hindsight, we know that the markets werent particularly volatile 
in November 2019. But without that hindsight, LEBC wouldve had no way of knowing 
whether or not an early report or a late report would make the out of market risk better or 
worse for Mr R. I also note that Mr R was able to wait to carry out the transfer when markets 
had stabilised. Therefore I dont consider that the delayed report caused him to face a 
greater out of market risk than he wouldve otherwise faced if the report had been produced 
more quickly.
So I agree with LEBC that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them accountable for 
market movements, as these are outside of their control. And that there is always a risk with 
any transfer of funds that the markets may be more volatile. 
When should the report have been produced?
LEBC said that although market movements were outside of their control, it was within their 
control to manage the level of service they provided to Mr R. They felt theyd made a fair 
offer for the poor service hed received with the report. 
Mr R said that LEBC had reduced the number of report-writing staff before his report was 
produced. He said his adviser had told him this. I understand that this had led to LEBC 
needing to prioritize more urgent cases. So I asked LEBC to confirm that theyd made a 
business decision which had led to redundancies in the report planning area. I also asked a 
number of follow up questions if that was correct. 
LEBC said they couldnt comment on business decisions taken regarding staffing as these 
were internal matters. They felt that what was of relevance was that they had recognised the 
unacceptable delay in getting the report to Mr R. And that theyd offered redress in respect of 
this. I also asked LEBC if they had assigned Mr Rs report to the correct position in the report 
queue. LEBC said they had nothing to evidence this. 
From what Ive seen, it took three months from the case being sent to paraplanning research 
at the end of October 2019 until it was picked up at the end of January 2020. I asked LEBC 
how long they would expect this process to have taken.  
LEBC said they would reasonably expect a customer to wait no more than eight-12 weeks 
for a report to be written and issued following referral to the paraplanning team. They said 
this would depend on the research required, the length and the complexity of the report. 
LEBC said that the level of information required for Mr Rs report meant that it took longer 
than normal to research and write. They said they needed to obtain very specific and 
detailed information from his pension provider to ensure that their recommendation was thoroughly researched and suitable for Mr R. And that some of that information had taken 
over a month to obtain. They acknowledged that in Mr Rs case this hadnt happened as 
quickly as it shouldve. 
Ive also looked at the client services agreement. This doesnt specify the length of time a 
report should take. I also asked Mr R to tell us on what hed based his expectations for the 
timing of the report production. 
Mr R said he felt the report shouldve taken six to eight weeks. And that this explained why 
hed chased LEBC for the report in December 2019. He said if it had been normal for a 
report to take four months, he wouldve been made aware of this when he queried the delay. 
He said his IFA had tried to get LEBC to move his case further up their queue but that hadnt 
been possible.
I agree that LEBC are entitled to make business decisions about the number of staff they 
employ. Theyre entitled to reduce that number. However, I would expect them to inform their 
customers if service standards were likely to fall as a result of a smaller workforce. Ive no 
evidence that they told Mr R that his report was likely to take longer to produce than normal. 
From what Ive seen, Mr R had no pressing need to carry out the transfers, so I can see why 
his case wasnt prioritized. I say this because the February 2020 report stated that Mr R was 
working to a retirement age of 65. It also stated that he had no particular need for income at 
that time and a large emergency fund. So I asked him if he had a pressing need to transfer
to the new provider by a particular point in time as I hadnt seen any evidence of any
particular need. 
Mr R said that his retirement plans hadnt changed between February 2020 when the report 
was issued and June 2020 when most of the transfer took place. He said that hed 
previously stated that hed expected the transfer to have taken place BEFORE February 
2020. And therefore before the unsettled state of the Stock Market due to Covid. Mr R said 
that his adviser told him at his October 2019 review that two of his pensions didnt offer a 
drawdown facility, which had been agreed was the most suitable type of pension for him. He 
said that given his age at the time, it seemed prudent to begin the process of change to one 
that offered this. 
Based on what both parties have told me, and the client services agreement, Ive no 
evidence that Mr R was told that the report would be with him within a certain period of time. 
However, I agree with Mr R that he was reasonable to expect the report within a certain 
timeframe. Hes suggested six to eight weeks, whereas LEBC have suggested eight-12 
weeks.
The report was actually produced in around four months. Mr R felt that although he 
acknowledged detailed information required from a third party took over a month to obtain, 
he shouldve received the report more quickly. He also told this service that LEBC had told 
him they were working hard to improve their report-writing process. Therefore he felt that 
LEBC shouldve told him their reports were taking longer than usual.
As there was no specific service standard for the provision of the report Mr R needed, and 
as he hadnt been told when to expect that report, I dont consider it fair or reasonable to 
state that LEBC shouldve produced the report by a specific date in November 2019, as both 
of our investigators suggested. From what Ive seen, there was no explicit service standard 
for the production of such reports. And Mr R was  from what Ive seen - correctly not 
identified as a priority case, so his report was fairly put in a queue. Ive also seen that around four weeks of delay were caused by the original pension provider being very slow to provide 
information LEBC required. So I dont consider that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
suggest that LEBC shouldve worked on Mr Rs report immediately and taken responsibility 
for the delays caused by external providers that were outside of their control. 
I also note that Mr R wanted to avoid being out of the market when it was in a volatile state. I 
can also see that when LEBC upheld his complaint they made a suggestion to help resolve 
the issue which wasnt possible. I understand how frustrating this wouldve been for Mr R. 
Mr R has also told this service that as the market was volatile in March 2020, when the 
report was presented to him, hed agreed to wait until such time as the market was steadier. 
He told this service that nobody at LEBC contacted him when it did steady somewhat. And it 
was only when he spoke to someone there in late May 2020 that his own transfer finally 
commenced.
LEBC have shared an internal note dated 1 May 2020. This said theyd spoken to Mr R the 
week before last. This wouldve been mid-late April 2020. They said theyd explained that 
markets had started to settle down a bit and that they could look at the re-registration 
process which would mean Mr R would only be out of the market for a day or two. The note 
recorded that Mr R was pleased with this but didn't want the adviser to proceed further at 
this stage: preferring to leave things as they are for a couple of months. It also records that 
a diary note had been made to contact Mr R in June 2020. 
Therefore, from what Ive seen, LEBC did contact Mr R about his transfer in April 2020. And 
they agreed a plan with him which would ensure that hed only be out of the market for a day 
or two. 
I acknowledge that LEBC have themselves accepted that it took longer than they wouldve 
liked to produce the report. And they also acknowledged that they hadnt communicated as 
well as they could have about the report with Mr R. For this reason, they offered £300 
compensation. Based on the evidence Ive seen, the delays caused Mr R concern and he 
had to chase LEBC a number of times for the report. But LEBC were able to suggest a plan 
 which Mr R accepted  to minimise the out of market risk he would face when the transfer 
went ahead. Therefore, Im satisfied that the £300 LEBC offered for the delayed report and 
the poor communication was fair under the circumstances.
As I dont consider there was a fixed date by which the report shouldve been produced, I 
cant fairly say that LEBC should be held responsible for the delayed transfer of Mr Rs 
pension plans. I say this because after the report was produced, Mr R was able to time his 
transfer so that the market was at a level of volatility that he was comfortable with. I 
appreciate this meant he had to wait several months to transfer into the pension that had 
been recommended for him. And that the new pension provider would also monitor his funds 
better, so he was missing out on the enhanced monitoring while he waited. But it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable to hold LEBC responsible for that. Theyd made no commitment to him to 
provide the report by a certain date, or to ensure the transfer took place by a certain time. 
When the transfer did go ahead, LEBC found a way to mitigate the out of market risk Mr R 
was concerned about. Therefore I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision 
LEBC accepted my provisional decision and had no further points to add.
Mr R was disappointed with my provisional decision. He reiterated his acknowledgement that 
some of the delays had been caused by external providers. He said he didnt understand 
what Id meant by my statement: When the transfer did go ahead, LEBC found a way to mitigate the out of market risk Mr R was concerned about. And asked me to clarify my point. 
Mr R shared a timeline of communications hed had with LEBC and other relevant parties. 
He said he wouldve expected LEBC to have recorded the dates of calls theyd had with him, 
rather than referring to having spoken to him the week before last. He said he wouldve 
expected further notes and updates on his file given his situation. He asked if LEBC had any 
such notes. And if they referred to contacting him in June 2020.
Mr R also said that although I considered that no timescale was given for the report to be 
produced, he was surprised that he hadnt been informed that the report would take longer 
than usual when his wife queried where it was. He said the delay and lack of information 
caused him considerable extra worry and stress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Mr Rs understanding of what I felt the mitigation was, I note that Mr R said he 
was concerned that transferring would leave him open to out of market risk. But from what 
Ive seen, LEBC were able to suggest a plan  which Mr R accepted  to minimise the out of 
market risk he would face when the transfer went ahead. This is the mitigation I was 
referring to.
I acknowledge that Mr R feels that LEBC shouldve had more detailed notes about their 
contact with him. But Im satisfied that the information LEBC provided to this service was 
sufficient for me to make a fair and reasonable decision on this case. Im unable to tell LEBC 
that they should have made more notes, or to tell them that they should change their 
procedures.
Having carefully considered Mr Rs points, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. I remain 
of the view I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman