DRN-2641879
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wont agree to waive the 
excess on his policy and prioritise his repairs, even though he was involved in a non-fault 
accident, and that they wont chase the other drivers insurers to admit liability.
What happened
Mr H has motor insurance with Advantage. On 4 November 2020 he was involved in an 
accident which he believes was entirely the fault of the other driver. He reported the accident 
to Advantage telling them that as he entered a roundabout, in the inside of two lanes, a car 
in the outside lane pulled over into his lane and scraped along the side of his car. 
On the basis that this was a non-fault accident Advantage instructed agents to arrange 
repairs and a hire car for Mr H. The agents initially only started to arrange a hire car for Mr 
H, and he had to chase them about the repairs the following day. When the agents 
contacted the other drivers insurers, they were told liability for the accident was disputed, so 
they had to pass the claim back to Advantage to deal with under the terms of Mr Hs policy.
Advantage then advised Mr H that theyd arrange his repairs and a hire car, but hed need to 
pay his policy excess before this was done. Mr H didnt accept that he should pay his policy 
excess when he didnt think the accident was his fault. And hes unhappy that Advantage 
have said they cant put any pressure on the other insurers to admit liability, as until his 
repairs are completed, they dont have any claim to pursue against them.
Mr H complained to Advantage who accepted thered been an initial mistake when they 
instructed their agents to only arrange a hire car for him. They offered him £30 
compensation for this, as they said it had been resolved the next day when Mr H rang the 
agents. But they maintained that, as liability was being disputed by the other driver, before 
his repairs were carried out Mr H had to pay his policy excess, and this was clearly set out in 
his policy terms and conditions.
Mr H was unhappy with Advantages response and complained to you service. Our 
investigator considered the case but didnt think Advantage needed to do anything. She said 
that Advantage had apologised for the mistake that was made when they instructed their 
agents. And as this was resolved the following day, she felt £30 was a reasonable offer of 
compensation.
She also said that as Mr K was making a claim for his repairs on his policy, his policy made it 
clear that he needed to pay his excess, and Advantage couldnt be expected to prioritise his 
repairs when this hadnt been paid. And she agreed that it was reasonable for Advantage to 
say that they couldnt put pressure on the other drivers insurers to admit liability, as they had 
no outlay to recover.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to decide who was responsible for the accident. My role is simply to consider 
whether Advantage have dealt with Mr Hs claim on a fair and reasonable basis.    
Mr H reported the accident to Advantage as a non-fault claim. Based on the information he 
provided they should have instructed their agents to arrange his repairs and a hire car for 
him. But they accept they made a mistake and only instructed the agents to arrange a hire 
car. And that he needed to call the agents to sort this out. Advantage have offered Mr H £30 
compensation for this, and I think this is reasonable. This isnt what has delayed the repairs 
being carried out to Mr Hs car.
When the agents were advised that the other driver was disputing liability for the accident, 
they had to return the claim to Advantage for them to deal with under the terms of Mr Hs 
policy. So at that point Mr H was making a claim for his repairs and his policy excess 
became payable. Mr H had agreed to pay his £95 excess, if he made a claim, when he took 
out his policy and accepted the policy terms and conditions.
Mr H maintains that he shouldnt have to pay his excess, as he believes that the accident 
wasnt his fault. And this is what is delaying his repairs being arranged. While Advantage 
could ask the other drivers insurers to accept liability, theyve already been told this is 
disputed, and they cant take any action to issue proceedings. As until theyve paid for the 
repairs, they havent incurred any outlay.
Mr H believes that due to the delay Advantage should waive his policy excess as a gesture 
of goodwill. While some insurers will waive a policy excess if its clear liability isnt, or cant 
reasonably be disputed, Advantage dont think liability is clear cut in this case. And based on 
the limited information available about the accident circumstances I think its fair for them to 
say this.
Advantage are prepared to deal with Mr Hs claim for repairs, if he pays his policy excess, 
which is correctly payable under the terms and conditions of his policy. So I think Advantage 
have acted reasonably and Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint 
against Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman