DRN-3024618
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined Mrs Ws claim for legal 
expenses under their home insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr F and Mrs W have legal expenses insurance as part of their 
home insurance policy. Mrs W had a dispute with her employer. In late 2019, she 
contacted Great Lakes in order to register a claim. Mrs Ws solicitor said that her claims 
against her ex-employer had a 55% prospect of success. 
Great Lakes instructed its panel solicitors to assess Mrs Ws claims. The panel solicitors 
said that Mrs Ws claims didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Great Lakes 
declined Mrs Ws claim against the policy. Mrs W provided additional information and 
asked Great Lakes to reconsider the matter. Great Lakes asked its panel solicitors to 
reassess Mrs Ws claims. The panel solicitors didnt change its view about the prospects 
of success. 
Mrs W and her solicitor asked that Great Lakes obtain a barristers opinion, which it did. 
The barrister said that he couldnt conclude that the prospects of success were in excess 
of 50%. Great Lakes said that Mrs Ws claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success, as required by the policy.
Mrs Ws ex-employer settled the matter before the tribunal took place. Mr F asked        
Great Lakes to reconsider its position and to pay their legal costs. Great Lakes declined 
to do so.  
Mr F and Mrs W say that Great Lakes should have dealt with their claim. They want 
Great Lakes to cover their solicitors fees. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly in relying on the advice it received about the prospects of success of 
Mrs Ws claims.  
Mr F and Mrs W disagreed. They said:
Their solicitor is a specialist in employment law and said that Mrs Ws claims had 
a prospect of success of more than 51% - how can Great Lakes evaluation differ 
so greatly from that?
What is the point of insurance if Great Lakes doesnt honour its obligations based 
on its opinion, rather than the actual outcome of the case?
Mrs Ws successful outcome proves that Great Lakes evaluation of the case was 
incorrect.
They have to pay solicitors fees even though Mrs W won her case and they paid 
their premium.
They felt pressure to instruct Great Lakes panel solicitors and Great Lakes lost 
interest when it was clear that they would continue to instruct their own solicitor.
Their solicitor said that the panel solicitors evaluation was negligent. 
The barrister was biased in favour of Great Lakes.
Mr F and Mrs W asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Section 4: Home Legal Expenses
[]
In order for us or [] to accept your claim, we or [] acting on our behalf must deem
that there are reasonable prospects of success.
Reasonable prospects
A 51% or greater chance that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any other legal 
remedy that [] have agreed to, including an enforcement of judgement), make successful 
defence or make a successful appeal or defence of any appeal in your pursuit of civil 
proceedings or criminal proceedings.
Section 4: General Conditions applying to this section
[]
3. Counsels Opinion
Where reasonable and necessary, we may obtain at our own cost, advice on prospects for 
your claim from an independent barrister. This will be in the event that there is a dispute on 
the prospects of success for your claim, between your choice of appointed representative 
and our panel solicitors.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr F and Mrs Ws complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes acted 
unfairly in declining Mrs Ws claim. I say that because:
As Ive set out above, the policy provides that for a claim to be accepted, it must have  
reasonable prospects of success, that is, a 51% or greater chance of recovery.  
Thats a very common provision in legal expenses insurance. We dont consider this sort of requirement inherently unfair. An insurer cant reasonably be expected to fund 
cases where its more likely than not that the case will fail.  
When an insurer has declined a claim in a case like this, it isnt for us to look at the 
merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted fairly 
and reasonably in coming to its decision. I think that Great Lakes has acted fairly and 
reasonably here, and Ill explain why.
As there was a dispute about the prospects of success between Mrs Ws solicitor and 
Great Lakes panel solicitor, Great Lakes obtained an opinion from a suitably 
qualified barrister. That is in accordance with the policy terms and I think that     
Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in taking that course of action.
Insurers are able to rely on the legal advice and opinions provided by suitably 
qualified lawyers, provided that the advice or opinions are not obviously wholly 
incorrect when viewed from the perspective of a lay person. I appreciate that Mr F 
and Mrs W think that the barrister didnt give sufficient attention to one aspect of   
Mrs Ws claim. A dispute about whether all the allegations were given appropriate 
weight in the opinion isnt enough for a layman to reach a conclusion that the opinion 
is obviously incorrect.
The barristers opinion was detailed and reasoned and set out why he thought that 
Mrs Ws claims didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. I think that             
Great Lakes was entitled to rely on that opinion in coming to its view about Mrs Ws 
claims against her ex-employer and that it acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.  
Mr F and Mrs W criticise the quality of the advice and opinion from Great Lakes 
panel solicitors and the barrister it instructed. This service has no jurisdiction over 
solicitors or barristers. We dont hold insurers responsible for the actions of panel 
solicitors or barristers. Great Lakes appoints panel solicitors and instructs barristers 
as independent legal experts, with their own regulator and complaints bodies. 
I havent seen anything to show that Great Lakes put pressure on Mrs W to instruct 
its panel solicitors. Its not unusual for individuals to instruct a non-panel solicitor in 
circumstances like the ones that arose here. The policy provides for that and says 
that the insured can choose a non-panel solicitor where legal proceedings need to be 
issued or where theres a conflict of interest.
I understand that Mrs Ws ex-employer settled the matter before the tribunal took 
place. The fact that Mrs W achieved a successful outcome doesnt, in itself, show 
that Great Lakes was wrong to decline Mrs Ws claim or that the advice it relied on 
was wrong. 
There are several reasons why an employer might choose to settle claims in order to 
avoid a tribunal. And the barrister Great Lakes instructed didnt say that Mrs Ws 
case had no prospect of success. He said that he wasnt persuaded that the 
prospects of success were in excess of 50%. Great Lakes could only make its 
decision on the basis of the information known at the time. So, I dont think that it 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Ws claim or in refusing to pay       
Mrs Ws legal fees retrospectively.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Ws complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman