The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of his limited company S, that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him 
incorrect information when opening a business bank account.
What happened
Mr G is a director of the limited company S. In March 2020 he called Barclays to enquire 
about opening a business account for S. He was told on the phone that the account had an 
interest rate of 10%. He agreed to set up the account over the phone and later transferred 
£6,000 into it. 
A few days later he realised that he wasnt receiving the 10% interest rate he had been told 
and he made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays upheld the complaint as it said its call handler had given incorrect information on 
the phone. It said the interest rate for the account was 0.10% and not 10%. It apologised for 
the error and offered S £50 compensation.
Mr G wasnt happy with this as he said he only set up the account for S because of the high 
interest rate. And he said he could have invested S money elsewhere and got a better 
return. So he thought Barclays should pay much higher compensation. He brought his 
complaint to this service
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that as there was only seven days when Mr G wouldnt have been aware of the 
interest rate, Barclays has already compensated for the interest he would have accrued at 
the higher rate during that time. So she didnt think they should pay anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said he had investments in stocks and shares that were returning very 
high amounts and he could have got a lot more money by investing the money in those. So 
Barclays should offer compensation to reflect that potential loss. He asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays made a mistake when explaining the terms of the business 
bank account to Mr G. It has accepted that it told him the incorrect interest rate. 
It isnt the role of this service to punish businesses for making mistakes, but instead to 
ensure that its customer is put back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt made 
DRN-1978122that mistake. So I need to decide if it Barclays has done enough to make up for the wrong 
information it gave Mr G.
Mr G called Barclays on 7 March 2020 to ask for the account to be opened for S. It was 
opened on 9 March and then he transferred funds on 11 March. Five days after transferring 
the funds  on 16 March - Mr G, on behalf of S, raised a complaint about the interest rate. 
Barclays responded to this complaint in on 18 March, confirming the correct interest rate. 
I have considered this timeline when assessing the impact of the mistake. Mr G only had 
funds in the account for five days before realising the interest rate was incorrect. And seven 
days until this was confirmed. At this point Mr G was aware of the interest rate, so could 
have reasonably taken action to invest the money elsewhere. 
So it is during those seven days that S would have lost out because of Barclays mistake. 
Mr G says if he had known the true interest rate on the account he would have put the 
money elsewhere. Once he was aware of the true interest rate he could have taken that 
action to ensure no further losses.
Barclays has calculated that during these seven days the interest that would have been 
accrued if the rate had been 10% would have been around £11. So in order to put Mr G back 
in the same position he would have been in if it hadnt been for its mistake, I think it is 
reasonable for Barclays to pay this £11 of interest. Barclays has provided £50 
compensation. As this is greater than the financial loss that Mr G suffered, I think this is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr G says that he invested some of Ss other money in stocks and shares that gave returns 
of 100-200%. And he would have got these returns on the money he put in the business 
account with Barclays if he hadnt been given incorrect information. However this is a 
hypothetical situation, not a definite loss caused by the mistake. So I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Barclays to match these returns.
When Mr G thought the interest rate on the account was 10% he agreed to open an account. 
So he was satisfied with getting that return on his money. He has now been paid more than 
he would have accrued in interest during the time he was unaware of the true interest rate. I 
therefore think that Barclays has done enough to put him back in the position he would have 
been in and I wont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman