DRN-3695754
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan granted to him by Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). He says 
that BOI shouldnt have agreed to the loan because it was unaffordable for him.
 
Mr S has brought his complaint to us via a representative but for simplicity I will refer to him 
throughout. 
What happened
BOI agreed a loan for Mr S in July 2020. The loan was for £25,000 to be repaid in monthly 
instalments of £525 over five years, and the total amount owed was £38,416 (figures 
rounded).
Mr S said that BOI didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending to him. He said that he 
was in debt with a mortgage and several overdrafts and the loan was unaffordable for him. 
Mr S also said that hes taken out several loans since to keep up to date with the monthly 
repayments, that he has difficulty with his mental health and he gambles. 
BOI said that it approved Mr Ss loan application based on information hed provided and 
what it could see on his credit file. It used national statistical datasets to estimate his living 
costs. BOI concluded it hadnt lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what happened when 
Mr Ss loans was agreed. They found that it would have been reasonable and proportionate 
of BOI to have looked further into Mr Ss circumstances before lending to him because of the 
amount involved. They found that BOI would likely have learnt that Mr S didnt have enough 
money to cover the loan repayments, and that he was spending a significant proportion of 
his income on gambling. Our investigator concluded that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld 
and recommended that he shouldnt pay and interest or charges for his loan. 
BOI didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman and its come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BOI  will be familiar with the regulations in place at the time so I wont set them out in detail 
but will summarise them and refer to them where appropriate. BOI needed to check that
Mr S could afford to meet his repayments without difficulty before agreeing the loan. In other 
words, it needed to check that he could meet his repayments out of his usual means without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (the 
amount offered or the loan term, for example) and Mr Ss particular circumstances. The 
overarching requirement was that BOI needed to pay due regard to Mr Ss interests and 
treat him fairly. 
With this in mind, my main considerations are did BOI complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did BOI make a fair 
lending decision?
Having considered everything carefully, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate that 
this will be very disappointing for BOI and I hope the following clearly explains my reasons 
for doing so. 
BOI carried out an income and expenditure assessment when Mr S applied for his loan. 
Mr S said in his application that his net monthly income was £2,500, his mortgage 
repayments were £650 and his council tax payments were £220. BOI noted that Mr Ss 
mortgage repayment was £697, as per his credit file record, and that he had no loans or 
credit card balances. 
I havent seen a copy of the credit file report BOI relied on but Mr S provided us with a recent 
copy. Ive assumed BOI would have seen that Mr S took out his mortgage about a year 
earlier in July 2019 and repaid several existing large loans around that time, including an 
earlier loan from BOI. Ive also assumed BOI would have seen that Mr S had several bank 
accounts  at least two sole accounts and one joint. All have overdrafts  his joint account 
overdraft limit was £2,000, his sole accounts had limits of £750 and £5,000. Mr S had taken 
out the former (sole) account in late 2019 and had already reached his overdraft limit and the 
latter seems to have had a long standing overdraft balance of close to £5,000.
BOI used national statistical datasets to estimate Mr Ss other outgoings (excluding his 
mortgage but including his council tax) which yielded a total estimate of £603. This would 
leave Mr S with £1,200 a month to meet his loan repayment of £525 and any other 
unaccounted for or unexpected spend.
Mr S had stated in his application form that the household income was £3,000, meaning he 
was the main source of income for his household, and I havent seen any evidence of 
income other than Mr Ss on the bank statements he provided to us. BOI said that it used an 
online credit reference agency tool to check transactions on Mr Ss bank account and so had 
some confidence in what hed said about his level of income. I havent seen the results of 
this check, so I dont know what information BOI relied on or which bank account it looked at. 
 
The regulations in place at the time said that the level of assessment required depended on 
the affordability risk. They stated that if the repayments and the total charge for the credit 
were low (relative to the borrowers financial circumstances) then the amount of information 
sufficient to support a reasonable assessment may be less than required than in the case of 
higher amounts of credit or when it is known that the credit might have a more significant 
impact. 
Given the amount Mr S wanted to borrow and the size of the loan repayments relative to his 
income, and that Mr S appeared to be the main income provider for his household, I think 
BOI should have done more here to check that Mr S would be able to meet his repayments 
without difficulty over the lifetime of the agreement. For example, on this occasion I think it 
would have been reasonable to have asked Mr S for proof of his income and some evidence 
of his main outgoings. 
Mr Ss income was paid into his joint account and, as mentioned, I havent seen evidence of 
any other household income. I can see that Mr Ss income deposits varied in the three 
months prior to the lending with the lowest amount being £2,252. Mr S has also provided his payslips from the time which show that his income comprised a basic wage plus overtime, 
which accounts for the variations in his monthly deposits. His basic salary equated to a 
monthly take-home pay of about £2,040, or £1,950 taking his pension contributions into 
account. 
Mr Ss usual outgoings (excluding mortgage and council tax) came to about £750, as seen 
on his bank statements. This includes easily identifiable costs such as household bills and 
media payments, insurances, car and bank costs, along with monthly school fees as Mr S 
has children. The regulations stated that non-discretionary expenditure includes expenditure 
for other persons whose financial obligations the customer meets wholly or in part so I think 
it is reasonable to include these payments in an assessment. Even without considering the 
variable food and petrol costs shown on the statements, its clear to me that Mr S wouldnt 
be able to afford to meet his payments for this loan without difficulty, considering these 
outgoings alongside his mortgage, council tax and the loan payments. 
Altogether, Ive concluded that a proportionate check would have shown that it was unlikely 
Mr S would be able to afford the repayments for this loan without experiencing financial 
difficulty, and I think BOI would have declined to lend to him under these circumstances. 
Furthermore, Mr Ss sole accounts show that he was spending considerable sums on 
gambling. I dont know what the BOI funds were spent on, but I do know that Mr S went on to 
borrow more over the following years. By the end of 2021 Mr S was repaying over £50,000 
of other unsecured debt. Mr S said that he has never been able to afford to pay back what 
he owes and gambled further and borrowed more money to try to meet the monthly 
payments. It seems to me that BOIs loan adversely impacted on Mr S and it now needs to 
put things right for him.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr S repays the capital he borrowed as hes had the use of this but I dont 
think he should pay any interest or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have been 
irresponsible given. In summary BOI should:
Cap the amount Mr S needs to repay at £25,000; and
Consider all payments Mr S made as payments towards this capital amount; and
If Mr S had paid more than this (which I dont think is the case) then BOI needs to 
refund these overpayments to him along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint; or
If Mr S has not yet repaid the capital, then BOI needs to treat Mr S fairly and with 
forbearance and due consideration regarding his outstanding balance. This may 
mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with him.
Remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ss credit file up to the 
point of settlement of the complaint. 
* HMRC requires BOI to take off tax from this interest. BOI must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ss complaint about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc for the reasons Ive 
explained and it needs to take the above steps to put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman