DRN-3267442
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do more to protect him when he was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
Mr J has an account with HSBC. In December 2018, he was contacted by email and invited 
to invest his money with a broker. That broker promised to manage Mr Js investments. 
These would be speculations on the movement of foreign exchange and some equities in 
publicly listed companies. He didnt realise it at the time, but this email had been sent by a 
scammer.
Although this initial contact took place in December 2018, Mr J didnt invest any money until 
March 2019. He told us that he wasnt looking for an outlandish return on his investments  
just a small return to help pay for the cost of caring for a family member. His initial 
investments were two payments he made from non-HSBC accounts. These appeared to be 
performing well and so he was persuaded to invest more by transferring funds from his 
HSBC account. Between May 2019 and October 2019, he was convinced to transfer 
substantial sums to the scammers in euros. In total, he has lost £85,477.22 from his HSBC 
account.
Mr J told us he had no reason to question that he was dealing with a legitimate firm. It had a 
very slick and professional looking website and he was granted access to a bespoke trading 
platform. Of course, the information that was displayed on that platform didnt represent the 
performance of genuine investments  but it nonetheless gave Mr J the confidence that he 
was dealing with a genuine firm, rather than a scammer.
In February 2019, a warning about this broker appeared on the website of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The warning said that this firm was purporting to carry 
out regulated activities even though it wasnt authorised to do so. Mr J said that he had 
checked the FCA website to see if there was anything about this broker, but this was at the 
time he was initially contacted in December 2018. At that point, there was no warning on the 
FCA website about this specific firm. There was, however, a warning about a firm with a very 
similar name. Its likely that these two firms were being operated by the same scammers. He 
told us that he doesnt remember seeing a warning about this other firm when he carried out 
his checks
Mr J didnt attempt to withdraw any money from the investment until the end of 2019. He was 
told that there was a problem, his investment was collapsing and that he needed to invest 
more money to prevent further losses. He was reluctant to do so despite the pressure being 
applied by the scammers. Shortly afterwards, all contact stopped.
At this point, Mr J suspected hed fallen victim to a scam and so he contacted HSBC to notify 
it. It initially declined to pay him a refund. It later agreed to pay him 50% of the money he 
lost. Broadly speaking, HSBC thought Mr J shouldve acted more cautiously before 
transferring his money
Mr J wasnt happy with this and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by 
an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator concluded that these payments were 
sufficiently out of character that HSBC ought to have intervened before processing them. He 
was also satisfied that it wouldve become clear in any conversation an HSBC employee had 
with Mr J that hed been targeted by a scammer. He noted that, by the time Mr J was making 
this investment, a warning about this firm had appeared on the FCA website. If HSBC had 
advised Mr J to check it or had checked it for him, its likely that the scam wouldve been 
uncovered.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion. Across two separate responses to the 
Investigator, it has argued that:
A recent court decision suggests that the legal standards the Investigator judged 
HSBC against was too high.
Mr J doesnt appear to have done any checks before making his investment and so 
should be considered to have been contributorily negligent, particularly given that (in 
HSBCs view) the investment on offer was too good to be true.
Even if HSBC had queried these payments with Mr J, its likely hed have reassured 
them that the investment was legitimate and that hed already seen a healthy return 
on his initial £250 deposit.
Mr J shouldnt have trusted an unsolicited approach inviting him to invest with this 
broker.
Mr J says he checked the FCA website at the time of the initial approach  he 
shouldve rechecked it before making any payments.
There wasnt a warning about this specific broker on the FCA website at the time he 
checked it, but there was one about a firm with a very similar name. This shouldve 
made Mr J recognise that there was a risk he was investing with a firm that wasnt 
legitimate.
The Investigator asked Mr J about the warning on the FCA website concerning a firm with a 
similar name to the one that he invested with. He said that he doesnt remember seeing the 
warning at the time. He says the FCA website has changed significantly since that time and 
so it might not have been displayed.
As HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mr J authorised the scam payments. He was duped by the 
scammer into instructing HSBC to make the payments from his HSBC account for a scam 
investment. The scammer deceived him into thinking the investment was legitimate.
I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr J was the victim of a scam. 
So, although he did not intend the money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulator rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware that HSBC considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected 
of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm. It has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful that the 
courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this complaint are 
different to that case.
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment where the judge took a different view about 
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulator rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I am mindful that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time in many previous decisions, both to HSBC 
and published on our website.
Bearing all of this in mind, I have considered whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mr J and whether it ought to have prevented the scam.
The Payments
Im satisfied that there were clear indicators that Mr J was at risk of fraud. The payments he 
made in connection with this scam were unusual and out of character. On the 29 May 2019, 
Mr J asked HSBC to make 3 payments for more than £20,000. Having looked at the 
statement data for Mr Js account for the previous twelve months, there are no payments 
that are on this sort of scale. The only exceptions are a large payment redeeming his 
mortgage and a small number of transfers between his own accounts.
Furthermore, these payments were made in euros and to a new payee. These are 
commonly occurring factors in scams of this kind and so Id have expected HSBC to guard 
against the risk that Mr J had been taken in by a scammer.
Of course, it doesnt automatically follow that just because Ive concluded HSBC ought to have conducted some further enquiries before allowing these payments to be processed that 
Mr Js case must be upheld. I need to be satisfied that reasonable enquiries wouldve made 
a difference here and prevented Mr J from falling victim to the scam
I think if an HSBC employee had discussed the payments with him, they ought reasonably to 
have had some concerns. Mr J was sent an unsolicited email and invited to invest his 
money. The fact that it was an unsolicited approach ought to have prompted concern on 
HSBCs part.
Mr J wouldnt have been able to explain the investment strategy. He was an inexperienced 
investor and would only have been able to summarise what he was doing in very general 
terms. Indeed, he told us that the scammers told him that an investment in foreign exchange 
was low risk  but Id have expected an employee of the bank to recognise that not to be the 
case.
I dont think it wouldve been difficult to establish that Mr J had been targeted as part of a 
scam. An HSBC employee couldve looked up the details of the broker on the FCA website. 
By that point, a clear and unambiguous warning had been placed there about this firm 
carrying out regulated activities without authorisation. If this had been explained to Mr J, I 
find it unlikely that he would have gone ahead with the payments.
HSBC has argued that, if it had queried these payments with Mr J, its likely hed have 
reassured the bank that this was a legitimate investment and that he was already seeing 
healthy returns. He might have referred to the seemingly legitimate investment platform hed 
been granted access to. It has also argued that, if HSBC couldve uncovered that this was a 
scam, theres no reason Mr J couldnt have done the same.
I think this ignores the asymmetry of knowledge between the parties here. The scam that Mr 
J fell victim to was clearly executed professionally and persuasively  but it wasnt novel or 
inventive. It carried several hallmarks of scams of this nature and an HSBC employee 
shouldve recognised these and questioned these payments with Mr J before allowing them 
to be processed.
Contributory negligence
HSBC has argued that Mr J could be considered to have been contributorily negligent or, at 
least, that he should fairly be considered partially responsible for his losses. In particular, it 
has focused on whether Mr J invested in the face of a clear warning on the FCA website.
Mr J says that he checked the FCA website in December 2018 to see if there was any 
information about the broker that had approached him and so was confident that he was 
dealing with a legitimate business. However, HSBC has pointed out that there was a warning 
about a business with a very similar name. This warning was posted online in August 2018 
and so shouldve been visible to Mr J. It says, therefore, that either Mr J saw this alternative 
warning and made the payments regardless or he didnt check the FCA website at all.
In either case, its argued that this means Mr J acted carelessly and so should be considered 
at least partially responsible for his losses here. Mr J says that the FCA website today is 
much improved from the one he consulted in December 2018. He says the search 
functionality appears to be superior. The mere fact that the warning is easy to find when a 
search is conducted today doesnt mean it wouldve been available back then.
Mr J is unable to account for why he might have searched for this broker, but not found the 
warning about the firm with the almost identical name. As far as I can tell, there are two ways 
that Mr J couldve looked up information about the firm. There is a search function on the FCA website landing page and there is also a separate search function for the FCA Register. 
Mr J hasnt been able to recall which one he searched.
I think its likely that searching the main website for the brokers name wouldve displayed 
the warning from August 2018 for the similarly named broker. The Wayback Machine 
maintains an archive of the FCAs website. I can see that the main website is substantially 
the same in appearance today as it was in December 2018. However, the FCA Register 
section has clearly had significant updates since then and the version that Mr J wouldve 
seen if hed searched back in December 2018 is quite different to the one available today.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr J did make some attempt to consult the FCA Register to verify 
whether this broker was genuine, and I dont think the weight of the evidence suggests that 
he wouldve seen this alternative warning. For that reason, I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonably apparent to him that he was taking such a great risk by transferring money to the 
broker and so I dont think he acted carelessly by not weighing up the significance of 
information he hadnt seen.
Ive carefully considered the other arguments that HSBC has raised. In all other respects, I 
dont think Mr J can be said to have taken insufficient care here. This was a skilfully 
executed scam designed to trick its targets into thinking they were dealing with a legitimate 
investment firm. Mr J was simply the unwitting and blameless victim.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr J accepts my final decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay him:
A refund of the payments he made to the scammer, less any money it has already 
returned to him.
8% simple interest per annum on those payments from the date they left his account 
until the date he receives (or received) a settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman