DRN-3357788
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy about the way AmTrust Europe Limited (Guardsman) handled her claim 
under her Guardsman Furniture Protection Plan Insurance.
What happened
Mrs C bought a sofa from a furniture retailer and took out a policy provided by Guardsman to 
cover it against accidental damage or stains.
In 2020 Mrs C discovered scratch marks and a stain on the sofa so she made a claim under 
her policy. Guardsman sent a technician who was able to repair some of the damage.
Two attempts were made to repair the sofa, and then one of the repairs failed. 
Under Guardsmans policy, one of the options it gives would be to replace the damaged 
section of the sofa. But the material was no longer available in the correct colour for that 
particular sofa, so Guardsman werent able to replace it.
Because it couldnt fix or replace the damaged part of the sofa, Guardsman then made two 
offers to Mrs C under the terms of the policy. 
Firstly, it could provide Mrs C with credit so that she could buy a new sofa from the same 
retailer. The amount of credit Guardsman said it could give under its policy was the original 
price of the sofa, less the cost of repairs itd already attempted (which is £82.50). This would 
give Mrs C a credit of £1,412.50 to spend in-store with the retailer.
Secondly, Guardsman could make a cash payment to Mrs G of £706.25, which is calculated 
by taking 50% off the figure mentioned above.
Mrs C wasnt happy about the amount shed been offered and she complained to 
Guardsman. She asks for a full cash settlement of her claim. Guardsman said itd offered 
Mrs C the correct solutions in line with its policy terms and conditions.
As Mrs C remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and upheld it. She said she thought Guardsmans offer was unfair and not in 
line with what Mrs C had paid for the sofa. She agreed that the offers were in line with what 
the policy terms and conditions said, but they didnt go far enough to put Mrs C back in the 
position she was before the damage happened. She said Guardsman should pay Mrs C 
£1,412.50.
Guardsman didnt agree with the view. It said it had followed the policy terms and conditions 
in settling Mrs Cs claim. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
Ive asked Mrs C whether she would be willing to buy her replacement sofa from the same 
retailer and her response was she would not wish to do so given the service shed 
experienced. Given that Guardsman had offered the choice to Mrs C of whether she did or 
not, I think its fair that I ask Guardsman to stand by Mrs Cs choice.
As for the amount that Mrs C is entitled to receive under her claim, Guardsman refer to an 
agreement it has with the furniture retailer where it is limited to providing a cash settlement 
at 50% of the amount it would pay for in-store credit. 
Ive asked Guardsman to provide evidence of where this would have been pointed out to Mrs 
C, and it replied saying that her claim would be settled according to its policy terms and 
conditions. Im not able to see where this limit is shown to Mrs C, so I think its reasonable to 
say I dont think she knew about it, and I dont think its fair of Guardsman to rely on it.
In its offer letter to Mrs C, Guardsman said she would be entitled to the original cost of the 
sofa she had purchased, less the amount Guardsman had already spent on the repairs. I 
can see this is part of the policy wording:
The most the Insurer will pay under this [policy] is limited to the original purchase 
price of your product
Mrs C paid £1,495 for her sofa, and Guardsman say its repairs were provided at a total of 
£82.50, so Mrs C would be entitled to receive £1,412.50 under the terms of the policy.
Given that Ive said above that Mrs C doesnt wish to return to the retailer and that I think its 
fair to ask Guardsman to stand by her choice, I think its also fair and reasonable to require 
Guardsman to refund the cost of her sofa, less the amount it has already spent on repairing 
it under the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AmTrust Europe Limited to pay Mrs 
C £1,412.50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman