DRN-4110480
The complaint
Miss H complains that Granite Finance Limited (Granite) charged her administration fees 
when her payments werent made on time. 
What happened
Miss H took out an insurance policy in July 2022, and Granite provided a finance agreement 
to facilitate the repayment of the insurance policy premiums in monthly instalments by way of 
a continuous payment authority (CPA). 
Miss Hs payments failed in August 2022 and September 2022. She called Granite to make 
these payments shortly after they were due, and Granite waived the administration fees 
theyd charged on these occasions. 
When Miss Hs payment failed again in October 2022, Granite said the £25 administration 
fee was chargeable. 
Miss H complained to Granite in October 2022 about the payments continually failing and 
the administration fee. Granite sent Miss H their final response to her complaint in November 
2022. They said they were correctly making the payment requests using the details provided 
by Miss H, but they had been declined by her bank. So, they didnt think theyd made an 
error and didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Miss H brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
there was no option for her to make her payments online, and she had to call to do this. Miss 
H said shed been charged around £100 in late payment fees to date, and Granite had told 
her that she couldnt pay over the phone because there was a block on her account due to 
arrears, but her payments were up to date. Miss H said Granite told her they were no longer 
attempting to take payments using the CPA because of the block on the account. 
Our investigator requested Granites business file on 19 January 2023, 10 February 2023, 
20 February 2023, and 7 March 2023 but didnt receive a response. So, in April 2023 she 
gave her view that based on the evidence available, there appeared to be an issue with the 
CPA which continued to fail each month and lead to late payment charges. There was no 
evidence provided by Granite to explain why the payments had failed, and so she couldnt 
say the charges had been applied fairly. Our investigator recommended that Granite remove 
the fees theyd charged Miss H for late payments. She also asked Granite to pay Miss H 
£150 compensation. 
Granite didnt respond to our investigators view, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence that Miss Hs payments through the CPA failed on a consistent basis, 
and that she was unable to make these payments through the online facility provided by 
Granite. 
Ive seen evidence that Miss H called on the payment due date each time that it failed in 
order to make the payment. So, Im persuaded that she had the funds available and would 
have made the payments but for the problem with the CPA. 
Im satisfied on balance that its likely there was a problem with Miss Hs CPA, but I havent 
seen any evidence to say what this problem was, or what Granite did to try and resolve it so 
that Miss Hs payments could be collected in line with the agreement. 
The failure of the CPA each month means that Miss H has been charged administration fees 
for late payments. All things considered; Im not satisfied that these fees have been applied 
fairly. I cant say that the payments failed for a reason outside of Granites control, or that 
they did enough to correct any error to prevent Miss H from incurring further fees for late 
payments. 
So, I find that Granite should remove the fees theyve charged and refund any fees Miss H 
has paid for late payments resulting from the failure of the CPA to collect Miss Hs payments 
for the insurance policy taken in July 2022. 
Our investigator recommended that Granite pay Miss H £150 compensation. Miss H has 
experienced distress and inconvenience in having to manually make her payments in month, 
attempting to resolve the problem with the CPA and concern about the fees being charged 
each month. Overall, all things considered, Im satisfied that £150 fairly compensates Miss H 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Granite Finance Limited must:
Remove any fees for late payments resulting from the failure of the continuous 
payment authority used to collect the payments for the insurance policy taken by 
Miss H in July 2022. 
Refund any fees Miss H has paid for late payments resulting from the failure of the 
continuous payment authority used to collect the payments for the insurance policy 
taken by Miss H in July 2022. 
Pay Miss H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman