DRN-3366651
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that AWP P&C SA has unfairly declined a claim she made under her 
extended motor warranty.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier in March 2022, explaining that I was 
intending to uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
The crux of the complaint is that AWP has declined to cover Mrs Ss claim for a fault 
with her car because, at the time of the claim, her warranty had been cancelled. It 
says it wrote to her giving six months notice that her warranty would be cancelled. 
However, following Mrs S complaint, AWP has paid her £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill, because she was a loyal customer. 
Mrs S feels she has been treated unfairly. She says she wasnt told her warranty was 
being cancelled, and so didnt know she wasnt covered. She initially wanted AWP to 
cover the cost of repairs to her car, but she has since sold the car, and she says this 
was at a lower price than otherwise wouldve been achieved, so is seeking 
reimbursement for the shortfall.
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator thought AWP had acted unfairly. She said it hadnt 
provided sufficient evidence to persuade her that Mrs S was adequately notified that 
her warranty was being cancelled. So, she recommended AWP should cover Mrs S 
claim under the terms of the warranty which was previously in place.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators assessment, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons. But Im minded to conclude AWP needs to do something different 
to put things right.
The outcome to this complaint hinges on whether or not AWP notified Mrs S of its 
intention to cancel her policy. AWP says a letter was sent but Mrs S says it wasnt 
received. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill 
reach a finding on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider to be more 
likely, based on the evidence available.
Our service has a well-established approach to situations like this. If it can be 
sufficiently evidenced that a business sent the letter to the customers correct 
address, we would typically consider it, most likely, to have been received. Or if it 
wasnt received, but had been shown to be sent, that likely wouldnt be something 
wed hold a business responsible for as its outside their control.  AWP has shown 
that it did have Mrs S correct address. But I also need to be satisfied, on balance, 
that it actually sent Mrs S the letter.
AWP says it sent letters to all customers, with this particular warranty, as part of a 
bulk mailing exercise. It has provided our service with a template of the letter it says it 
sent. But, in order for me to conclude, on balance, that this letter was most likely sent 
to Mrs S, Id expect to see some other supporting evidence. For example, system 
notes from the time indicating this template had been sent, records of internal 
communication regarding the discontinuation of the product or any other evidence to 
support AWPs position. 
Mrs S had maintained cover through AWP for multiple years, so she was clearly 
happy with the warranty and the protection it provided. So, had she received the 
letter AWP says it sent, on balance, I think it more likely than not that she would have 
got in contact to explore the alternative policies mentioned within it. I also think the 
fact that she attempted to make a claim through AWP, many months after the policy 
was cancelled, indicates that she was likely not aware of the cancellation  which 
supports her suggestion that no letter was received.
So, taking all of the available evidence into account, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude, on balance, that AWP most likely sent the letter to 
Mrs S because its not sufficiently evidenced this. This means Mrs S has lost out 
because of something, on balance, AWP did wrong.
As Mrs S, on balance, wasnt sent the cancellation letter, AWP hasnt provided her 
with the notice required under the terms of her policy to cancel her cover. So, in 
ordinary circumstances, I think a fair resolution to this complaint would be for AWP to 
consider Mrs S claim under the terms of the cover she ought to have had in place at 
the time of her claim. 
However, in this case, Mrs S part-exchanged her car following AWPs incorrect 
repudiation of her claim. This means AWP wouldnt be able to properly reconsider 
the claim, as there is no car for it to inspect to determine which issue(s) would be 
covered under the terms of its policy. Mrs S has provided an initial quote she got 
from the garage, setting out the first stage repairs required. But in my view, this 
information isnt sufficient for AWP to make a determination on validity of the claim. 
So, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances.
Mrs S has shown that shed been quoted around £1,800 for first stage repairs and 
told that once the transmission had been disassembled, it was likely further repairs 
would be needed, which could cost as much as £5,000 to £6,000. Mrs S has also 
shown that she part exchanged her car, in its damaged state, for £2,600 on 2 March 
2021. And having checked the three recognised industry trade guides, full market 
value for Mrs S car, at the time of the attempted claim, was around £6,000.Taking into account the circumstances of this case, I can understand why Mrs S felt 
she had to move forward with the part exchange. After all, she was without the use of 
her car, AWP had refused to deal with her claim and the potential repair costs were 
being quoted as more than the value of the car, in its current state. Based on this, I 
think Mrs S was essentially forced into the position of needing to sell or part 
exchange her car, due to AWPs incorrect decision to decline her claim.
 
Because the car was part exchanged, its now no longer able to be fully inspected. 
This means its now impossible to determine whether all the issues with Mrs S car 
would have been covered under her warranty. But, as Ive explained, this is only the 
case because of AWPs incorrect decision to decline the claim. And again, I think 
Mrs S decision to part exchange the car when she did was reasonable. So, in the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think the fairest solution is for AWP to pay 
Mrs S the difference between the market value of her car at the time, and the part 
exchange value she received. This amounts to £3,400. I also think AWP needs to 
pay interest on this amount from the date Mrs S part exchanged her car to the date of 
settlement.
Mrs S has also raised concerns about the distress she has experienced as a result of 
the poor level of service she received from AWP. As explained above AWP has, in 
my view, incorrectly declined Mrs S claim and this would have been understandably 
distressing. However, AWP has already paid Mrs S £250 as a goodwill gesture. 
Taking everything into account, I think this amount is enough to fairly compensate 
Mrs S for the impact of the service she has received. So, Im not intending to direct 
AWP to increase this amount, or pay any further compensation, beyond the amount I 
think it needs to pay to settle her claim.
I said I was intending to direct AWP to pay Mrs S £3,400 plus 8% interest, from when she 
part exchanged her car to the date of settlement, in order to fairly resolve her complaint.
I asked both sides to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. 
Mrs S responded and highlighted that she had never accepted the £250 goodwill gesture, 
which I provisionally decided was enough to compensate her for the impact of the poor 
service she had received. She didnt make any further comments on the provisional findings 
I reached.
AWP responded to confirm that it had no further comments, evidence or arguments to make 
in response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence or arguments, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.
In my provisional decision, I explained that the £250 goodwill offer made by AWP was 
sufficient to compensate Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience she had experienced as a 
result of AWPs handling of her claim and complaint. 
In response, Mrs S has said she never accepted or received this payment. So, unless it can 
show that it has already paid Mrs S this amount, AWP should pay her the £250 it offered, in 
addition to the amount required to fairly settle her claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs S 
complaint.
AWP P&C SA must:
Pay Mrs S £3,400 to settle her claim.
 
Pay 8% simple interest* on this amount, from the date Mrs S part exchanged her car 
to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs S the £250 compensation it previously offered to  unless it can show that it 
has done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman