DRN-4091959
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) wont let him take out a new 
fixed interest rate, because it says he has broken the terms of his mortgage by living in the 
property himself. Mr P says those terms dont say anything about him living in the property. 
What happened
Mr P has a Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage with TMW, and lives in the mortgaged property. He 
said TMW was refusing to let him remortgage, because it said he couldnt live in the property 
himself. But Mr P says theres nothing saying that in the terms of his mortgage, so he thinks 
charging him the Standard Variable Rate (SVR) is unfair. Mr P has sent us terms and 
conditions for his mortgage, which TMW had sent to him. 
TMW sent us a number of letters it had issued to Mr P, in response to his complaint. 
The first of these letters was sent on 9 May 2019, and it said TMW hadnt consented to Mr P 
moving into the property, just because hed told it that this was his new address. TMW said it 
had written to Mr P at the time, September 2018, to ask if this was because of exceptional 
circumstances. TMW said sometimes it can agree to a customer with a BTL mortgage living 
in the property if theres an exceptional reason for that. 
TMW said Mr P didnt reply, and it understood Mr P also had a residential mortgage with 
another provider. So it wouldnt agree that Mr P had moved into this BTL property because 
of exceptional circumstances. 
TMW said then that Mr P was in breach of the terms and conditions of his mortgage. It 
wouldnt evict him, but it wouldnt allow him to amend his mortgage at all, either, while this 
breach continued. 
TMW showed us a more recent letter, which it sent to Mr P on 25 August 2022. That letter 
gave Mr P some wrong information about Mr Ps mortgage. It still said that TMW wouldnt let 
him take out a new fixed rate for his BTL mortgage, while Mr P was living in the property, but 
it said there wasnt anything it could point to in the terms and conditions which told Mr P this. 
TMW then wrote again the very next day, 25 August 2022. It said the information it had 
previously given Mr P was wrong. Its agent had been looking at the wrong mortgage terms. 
TMW said the terms for BTL mortgages did expressly say the property could only be 
occupied under the terms of a tenancy. 
Our investigator didnt think TMW had done anything wrong. He thought the agreement Mr P 
had reached with TMW was clear that the property could only be occupied under the terms 
of a tenancy. So he didnt think TMW had acted unfairly by not offering Mr P a new fixed 
interest rate mortgage. 
Mr P replied, to say he didnt accept the terms of this mortgage said anywhere that he 
couldnt live in the property himself. Mr P has also suggested he bought this house for a 
family member to live in for a while, and Mr P had always intended to then move in himself. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I know that TMW first wrote to Mr P about this complaint in 2019, and he didnt complain to 
our service within six months of that letter. But because TMW has changed its position on 
this complaint more recently, then changed it back again, and because TMW has reached a 
more recent decision not to allow Mr P to fix his mortgage, I do think our service has 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint now.
Mr Ps complaint is that TMW wont allow him to arrange a new fixed term, fixed interest 
mortgage deal, because hes living in the property, and TMW says thats a breach of his 
mortgage conditions. Mr P says theres nothing in his mortgage conditions which prevents 
him living there. 
Mr P has sent our service two documents, covering the terms of his mortgage. They both 
refer to BTL mortgages. And, as I understand it, Mr P hasnt disputed that this is the 
mortgage type he has. 
The first document is the Standard BTL Offer Conditions:2006 (the Offer conditions). These 
Offer conditions are clear that they must be read with a second document, the Standard BTL 
Mortgage Conditions: 2009 (the Mortgage conditions). 
The Offer conditions include the following  
15. Terms of a BTL
We are offering you a mortgage under our BTL scheme. It is a fundamental term of a 
BTL that a property may only be occupied under the terms of a tenancy where vacant 
possession can be obtained at the end of the term of the tenancy. In the majority of 
cases this will mean the tenancy will be an assured shorthold tenancy (an AST) 
within the meaning of Section 20 of the Housing Act 1988 as amended by the 
Housing Act 1996.
The provisions go on to say how Mr P can satisfy TMW that the property is properly let, if 
there was already a tenant in situ when he bought the property. 
I think the provision I have set out above is incompatible with Mr P, the owner of this 
property, living in the property himself. 
Mr P also sent us the Mortgage conditions. Those set out a number of circumstances in 
which Mr P will be in breach of his mortgage terms. They include this (b) you are in breach of any of your other material covenants or obligations under the 
mortgage or the offer 
Earlier in the Mortgage conditions, there is a glossary of terms, which states that offer in 
this document includes the offer conditions. And the offer conditions are defined as 
The Standard BTL Offer Conditions 2006. Thats the first document I quoted from above.
So the Offer conditions say that its a fundamental term of the BTL mortgage, that only 
tenants can live in the property (and indeed, only tenants of a specific type). Then the 
Mortgage conditions set out that if Mr P breaches any of the obligations set out in that 
document, or set out in the Offer conditions (including the one Ive explained above) then Mr 
P is in breach of the mortgage as a whole. The Mortgage conditions say that in these 
circumstances, TMW can ask him to pay back all the money it lent him, right away. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont agree with Mr P that theres nothing in the terms of 
this mortgage about whether he can live there himself. I think its a clear conclusion of the 
terms of occupancy which were set out in his Offer conditions, that he cannot live there. 
Mr P hasnt disputed that he is living in the property himself. So I do think hes in breach of 
the terms which govern his mortgage.
TMW said in 2018 that it wasnt then planning to ask Mr P to pay back all the money it had 
lent him straight away. But it also said then that it wouldnt let him make any changes to his 
mortgage, until this issue was resolved. And its refused, more recently, to let him make 
changes to his mortgage interest rate, because of that. 
I think TMW was right to say that the terms of Mr Ps mortgage dont allow him to live in the 
property. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for TMW to respond to this breach, by 
saying that it wouldnt currently agree to fix a new interest rate for Mr P.
I can see from the notes TMW has shared with our service, that Mr P suggested TMW might 
have known about his plans for this property from the start. But that doesnt appear to me to 
be the complaint Mr P asked our service to look into here. And I cant comment on whether 
TMW did know that, or if that would have any impact on the overall position here, unless Mr 
P has already complained to TMW about this. So I wont comment on that issue here.
I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman