DRN-4312583
The complaint
Mr W complains Zurich Insurance PLC declined a third-party claim he made, under the Third 
Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010 (the 2010 Act), in respect of a policy taken out by 
a company, P.
Mr W is represented in bringing the complaint by a firm of solicitors who Ill refer to as N.
What happened
In 2012 Mr W was provided with investment advice by P. It recommended he invest in a 
Business Premises Renovation Allowance Scheme (BPRA). That involved him becoming a 
partner in a Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) which was to invest in the development of a 
hotel.
The LLP was funded by contributions from partners and an interest free loan provided by the 
developer to the partnership. The LLPs spending was intending to qualify for the BPRA 
meaning Mr W would receive income tax relief. And that tax relief would then be used to 
repay the loan provided by the developer. Mr W followed the advice from P and followed a 
further recommendation to invest more money in 2013. That was again on the basis it would 
be funded by a loan from the developer.
However, the developer didnt provide the interest free loan and Mr W was required to make 
the contribution himself. Other investors had difficulties making the required contributions 
and HMRC also began investigating whether the LLP did in fact quality for the BPRA. Mr W 
was served with a notice by HMRC to repay some of the tax claimed. And in 2016 the LLP 
went into liquidation. Mr W complained to us in 2018 about the investment advice P provided 
in 2012 and 2013.
Another Ombudsman considered those complaints. He concluded the advice was unsuitable 
and Mr W wouldnt have invested in the scheme but for that advice. Amongst other things he 
directed P to refund the amounts Mr W had paid (and would have to pay) to HMRC. And it 
should refund the amount Mr W contributed to the scheme (plus interest).
Unfortunately, P went into liquidation in July 2019 without paying those awards. Mr W sought 
to recover those amounts from Ps professional indemnity policy under the 2010 Act. Zurich 
is the underwriter of the policy. It said the policy contained an exclusion for liability arising 
out of or relating directly or indirectly to the insolvency or bankruptcy ofany other business 
with whom you have arranged any insurance, investment or deposit.
Zurich thought that applied here and quoted case law (Crowden v QBE Insurance (Europe) 
Limited  the Crowden case) which it believed supported its position. It didnt agree it had 
previously said the claim would be paid. Zurich also queried whether Mr W was eligible to 
bring this complaint to our service.
Mr W complained to us about Zurichs decision not to cover the first of the awards made 
against P (relating to the advice provided in 2012). We considered the jurisdiction position 
and another Ombudsman issued a decision last year. He concluded, on the basis of the 
information which had by then been presented, this was a complaint we could consider. So 
an investigator went on to consider its merits.
She was satisfied the losses Mr W was claiming for were at least indirectly related to the 
insolvency of the LLP. And she thought the Crowden case which involved a similar exclusion 
clause established the insolvency only needed to be a contributing factor for the clause to 
apply. She thought that applied here and Zurich had fairly turned down the claim. And she 
didnt think there had been any claims handling issues by Zurich from the point Mr W 
became eligible to claim under the policy.
Zurich didnt respond to her view. N provided very detailed submissions. In summary:
They didnt accept the exclusion Zurich had relied on applied in this case. The 
clause references liability (not loss). The liability arose as a result of the poor 
advice and that was established by our previous decisions. The proximate cause 
of the loss was the advice to invest in an unsuitable scheme which is an insured 
risk.
The liability arose at the point that advice was given; it doesnt arise from the 
insolvency of the LLP four years later. Our decisions established there were inherent 
risks in the scheme that should have been apparent to the insured at the outset. And 
the losses suffered by Mr W existed prior to the insolvency and would have existed 
whether the LLP had become insolvent or not (because the investment had no 
reasonable prospect of obtaining the tax relief it had been set up to obtain).
They didnt agree the LLP fell within the definition of entities specified in the clause 
and wasnt caught by the broader reference to any other business. Case law has 
established that wording of that nature (unless enlarged by the context) limits the 
description to matters of the same kind. The businesses specified here are 
financial services providers and the LLP in this case wasnt remotely similar to that.
They didnt accept the scheme in this case was an investment which fell within the 
definition set out in the Regulated Activities Order. They also disputed the insured 
had arranged the investment with the LLP; there was no evidence of arrangements 
between those representing the LLP and the insured
They didnt accept the case Zurich had cited did have a read across to the situation 
here. In particular they said the exclusion clause in that case was materially different 
to the one here; for example the Crowden case included claims and losses as part 
of the exclusion.
Even if it the clause did apply they didnt think it was fair to apply it. They disputed 
that the commercial purpose of the policy was to exclude claims such as those in 
this case. and said the clause wasnt prominently highlighted in the policy.
They referenced a recent Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) consultation exercise 
which said the use of these clauses wasnt fair and reasonable. And while the 
changes the FCA then implemented didnt come into effect until June 2019 that 
was before Zurich had said it would be using this clause to turn down the claim. 
In addition they said Zurich had previously told P cover was in place and it was 
therefore unreasonable of it to now seek to rely on the exclusion. And they cited 
email correspondence from Zurich and its panel solicitors in support of that position. 
In this context they raised issues of estoppel, waiver and contractual promise to pay.I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in June. I said: 
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution
Rules (DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take
into account relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators rules guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and
where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says an insurer should handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I think its reasonable to take
those rules into account when deciding this complaint.
In considering that here Ive read the extremely detailed submissions N made in support of
Mr Ws complaint and Ive given careful thought to each of the material points that were
made.
Mr Ws complaint relates to investment advice provided by P in 2012. Im not considering in
this decision the separate claim I understand Mr W made to Zurich in relation to the
investment advice provided in 2013 and the Ombudsmans decision on that. N made clear in
its initial submissions to our service that it intended to raise this as a separate matter.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ps policy on which Mr W is seeking to
exercise the rights transferred by the 2010 Act. The policy says at section 2 under the
heading Cover:
We will indemnify any insured in respect of any claim first made against any insured and
notified to us during the period of insurance in respect of any civil liability including liability for
claimants costs and expenses arising out of the conduct of the business within the territorial
limits.
At 2.9 the policy says:
We will also indemnify you in respect of:
2.9 Ombudsman awards
a) Any amount paid or payable
b) The cost of taking any steps which you are directed to take in accordance with any final
binding award or determination of any ombudsman appointed in respect of any case
accepted by the ombudsman for review under any recognised scheme applicable to the
business and which may otherwise be the subject of indemnity under this policy. Provided
always that you give written notice to us as soon as reasonably possible after becoming
aware that a case directly affecting you is being reviewed by an ombudsman.Any subject or concurrent civil action arising out of any complaint made to the
ombudsman hereunder will be deemed to be notified in accordance with condition 3.
Our liability will not exceed £150,000 in respect of any single award or determination of
any ombudsman. Should there be a series of awards made by an ombudsman
attributable to the same or different claimants but arising from a single originating cause,
event or source then our liability in respect of all such awards will not exceed in the
aggregate the limit of indemnity stated in the schedule and this limit will form part of and
not be in addition to the limit of the indemnity stated in the schedule.
In this case an Ombudsmans decision was issued in April 2019 making an award against P
in favour of Mr W. I dont think its in dispute that, in principle, the policy would cover the
claim that has been made against it. The issue is whether the exclusion Zurich has quoted
applies. That exclusion appeared in Section 3 Exclusions (which started on page 14).
At page 16, the insolvency exclusion appears and says:
Section 3 - Exclusions
This policy does not cover:

14. Insolvency
Liability arising out of or relating directly or indirectly to:
a) Your insolvency or bankruptcy
b) The insolvency or bankruptcy of any insurance company, underwriting
agent, bank, building society, unit trust or any other business with whom you
have arranged any insurance, investment or deposit.
Provided always that this exclusion will not apply to defence costs up to
£150,000 in the aggregate during the period of insurance. This limit will form
part of and not be in addition to the limit of indemnity stated in the schedule.
In its letter of 2 September 2019 to P, Zurich says this about the application of the exclusion:
Application of exclusion 14
Exclusion 14 of the Policy applies based upon the following:
[P] arranged the Investment with [the LLP];
[the LLP] is a business that became insolvent at least at the point that it was
placed into Administration;
[the LLPs] insolvency was, at the very least, an indirect cause of the Clients
losses and therefore [Ps] liability in this matter.
In light of the above, and taking into account the relevant case law, such as
Crowden v QBE (2017) EWHC 2597 (Comm), Zurich is entitled to rely on
Exclusion 14 to decline indemnity in respect of the Claims once the defence
costs only sub-limit of £150,000 has been fully incurred. As this limit has been
reached, Zurich will no longer fund the defence of the Claims.
Does the exclusion apply?
Investment and arranged
At the outset, I agree with N that in order for the exclusion clause to apply, the liability of P
needs to have arisen out of or related to directly or indirectly the insolvency of the business
with whom the investment was arranged [my emphasis].N has suggested the clause doesnt apply because P didnt arrange an investment with the 
LLP in this case; their argument is both that the LLP wasnt an investment as defined by the 
Regulated Activities Order and that P didnt arrange it.
It is not contested that the investment in this case is an unregulated collective investment
scheme (UCIS). In my view, it is clear that UCIS are investments as defined by the FSMA
(Regulated Activities) Order 2000 (RAO). They are collective investment schemes, which
are specified investments under art 81 of part III of the RAO. The fact that they are referred
to as unregulated signifies only that they are not subject to the same requirements that
apply to authorised UK collective investment schemes  making them inherently higher risk.
I am therefore satisfied that the LLP qualifies as an investment in line with the exclusion.
And while N has sought to argue that the arranging of the investment here would fall outside
of the regulated activity of arranging deals in investments specified in art 25 of the RAO, I
dont think that is the case. That activity includes within the definition of investments,
collective investment schemes. Similar wording applies to the regulated activity of advising
on investments (except pension transfers and pension opt-outs) which is why we were able
to consider Mr Ws original complaint about the advice he was given by P to invest in this
scheme.
So I think the wording of the policy would include the investment in this case. And while N
argues P didnt arrange that investment, I dont agree. I appreciate there may not have
been direct contact between P and those responsible for the LLP but there doesnt need to
be for this to constitute arranging in line with the wording of the RAO and the FCAs
Perimeter Guidance (PERG). The regulated activity covers:
making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell,
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment and
making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in
the arrangements buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling
within PERG 8.32.1G (1)(a) to (c) (whether as principal or agent).
In relation to the first point the FCA makes clear that a person brings about or would bring
about a transaction only if his involvement in the chain of events leading to the transaction is
of enough importance that without that involvement it would not take place. But the second
point is broader and would include, for example, a business helping a consumer fill out an
application for an investment and passing the application to the investment company.
Ive thought about how that applies here and have reviewed information from when the
investment was taken out. A meeting note from P says once [Mr W] had his questions
answered and was happy to proceed we completed the application for [the LLP]. And the
suitability report from P says for details of the fee paid to us for arranging this investment,
please refer to the Investment Memorandum. Im satisfied that would fall within the
regulated activity of arranging deals in investments and be caught by the policy exclusion as
it relates to this.
Any other business
N also say the LLP in this case isnt caught by the part of the exclusion clause which refers
to any other business. It says the LLP doesnt fall within any of the specified businesses set
out in the term. And it believes the ejusdem generis principle should apply so that where
specific words are followed by general words, the general words are interpreted as being
limited to things of the same kind as the specific ones. N also argue if the clause had the
meaning which Zurich contends this would have been highlighted to P by its broker.The LLP was set up to operate an unregulated collective investment scheme. So I think N
are right to say it wasnt any of the specific business types listed in the exclusion  i.e. it
wasnt an insurance company, underwriting agent, bank, building society or unit trust. Ive
therefore considered the ejusdem generis argument it put forward in relation to the any
other business part of the clause.
In my view the exclusion is qualified in relation to the specified businesses and any other
business by the inclusion of the wording with whom you have arranged any insurance,
investment or deposit. Those words are, to my mind, significant when construing the
meaning of any other business and should be taken into account.
Taking into account the wording of the clause as a whole (which includes both the preceding
specified businesses and the following words, with whom you have arranged any insurance,
investment or deposit I think its reasonable to interpret the words any other business as
referring to a business with which its possible to arrange any insurance, investment or
deposit. I think this is consistent with the contract as a whole, and is particularly the case as
the specified, unit trust category is itself a type of collective investment scheme. Ps brokers
may have interpreted matters differently. But for the reasons Ive explained I think Zurich
acted reasonably in concluding the LLP was caught by the reference to any other business
in the exclusion.
Liability arising out of or relating directly or indirectly to
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Zurich are right to say the liability in this case
arose out of, or was related directly or indirectly to, the insolvency of the LLP. On balance I
dont think they were. Looking at the policy terms, I think the liability the relevant clause
refers to is that of P (and not Zurich as the insurer). The policy sets out the cover it will
provide and says, we will indemnify any insured in respect of any claim first made against
any insured and notified to us during the period of insurance in respect of any civil liability
including liability for claimants costs and expertise arising out of the conduct of the business
within the territorial limits.
The exclusion clauses in the policy then go on to restrict the cover it provides, including by
limiting liability arising out of or relating directly or indirectly to the insolvency of a business
with which an investment has been arranged by the insured firm (exclusion 14, outlined in
full above). Given the wording of the policy as a whole, I think its reasonable to say that
restriction would apply to the civil liability of P that was owing to Mr W, which was
determined by the ombudsmans decision against P and established by the judgment of the
court.
The question is therefore whether that liability has arisen out of or relates directly or
indirectly to the insolvency of the LLP. And I think the Crowden case is relevant to my
consideration of this issue. I accept there are clearly differences between that case and
whats happened here. I also agree the wording of the exclusion clause in the Crowden
case, although similar, has broader application because it covers claims, liability, loss, costs
or expenses, whereas Zurichs policy exclusion only covers liability. But I nonetheless
consider that the comments that the judge in Crowden made about the extent to which the
insolvency needed to have impacted on the liability in question are relevant here.
In that regard, I note that the judge referred to the words of the policy in that case (i.e.
arising out of or relating directly or indirectly to the insolvency,) and said the undeniable
sense of these words is to emphasise that the causative effect of the relevant insolvency
need not be as strong or efficient so as to constitute a proximate cause. He went on to say that for the exclusion to apply the insolvency must be specifically 
accountable as a cause of the claim, liability or loss: in this sense, it must be significant; it 
must stand out as a contributing factor, at least, to the claim, liability or loss.
The judge didnt draw any distinction between claim, liability or loss in his judgment. So
while I appreciate the clause in this case only references liability, I dont think that means
the Crowden case isnt relevant to whats happened here. On that basis, I take note of what
the court said in Crowden that for the exclusion to apply, the insolvency of the LLP doesnt
have to be the proximate cause of Ps liability (the dominant' or 'effective' or 'direct' cause).
However, it does need to stand out as a contributing factor to it.
I dont think it was. In reaching this view, I note that liability isnt defined in the policy, but I
have taken account of the definition in Jowitts Dictionary of English Law:
The condition of being answerable in law, or actually or potentially subject to a civil
obligation, either generally, as including every kind of obligation, or, in a more special
sense, to denote inchoate, future, unascertained or imperfect obligations, as opposed
to debts, the essence of which is that they are ascertained and certain. Thus when a
person becomes surety for another, he makes himself liable, though it is
unascertained in what obligation or debt the liability may ultimately result.
The Cambridge dictionary defines liability as, the fact that someone is legally responsible
for something.
I have also given careful regard to the terms of the sealed consent order given by the court
in favour of Mr W on 17 September 2022. The particulars of the claim speak to a claim for
breach of duty/and or contract. The ombudsmans decisions, in which complaints against P
were upheld, are attached to the schedule for the particulars of claim and are said to contain
the details of the loss and damage that are included in the schedules of loss. The particulars
of the claim outline the ways in which the scheme failed to achieve its objectives of securing
tax benefits and income.
It points to the features of the scheme that rendered it high risk and outlines the failures of
the firm at the point of sale (including failures to complete fact finds, establish attitudes to
risk, conduct affordability checks and to advise the claimants of the risks inherent in the
scheme). All in all, the claim appears to be framed as a negligence/ /breach of contract
claim, but details of the claims are contained in the attached ombudsman awards with the
Court directing payment of an ascertained amount in the ombudsman awards in resolution of
the claim.
In light of that, when considering the meaning of liability in the circumstances of the claim
under the policy, I have taken into account the fact that, for a breach of contract claim, the
cause of action in law would accrue at the time of the breach (i.e. when the advice was
given).
I appreciate that for a negligence claim, it would normally be when a claimant suffers
actionable damage. But in that context, Ive noted that in Halsall v Champion Consulting Ltd
[2017] EWHC 1079 (QB)) (which also related to a scheme involving tax arrangements) the
judge said, It seems to me that it was the point at which the claimants entered into the
planning that they suffered damage. He went on to conclude, It was not inevitable at that
point that they would be denied the tax relief and they may have been financially better off as
a result of being exposed to the risk, but it was at that point that they were tied into the
"commercial straitjacket". The court went on to hold that the investors suffered damage
when they entered into the contracts in the tax scheme, when the "defect" in the form of the
advice was incapable of cure.Taking all of that into account, it is my view that Ps liability accrued at the point the 
investment was arranged for Mr W, further to Ps advice to enter into the scheme. The extent 
of that liability (and the amount of loss that had resulted) was determined by the subsequent 
Ombudsmans decision and subsequently established by a judgment of the court.
I appreciate it was the LLPs insolvency that led to the sale of the underlying property (and
meant there was an automatic clawback by HMRC of the tax rebates because the property
hadnt been held for long enough to qualify for them). But I understand that once the
arrangements had first been made, it wouldnt have been possible for Mr W to extract
himself from the scheme at all without loss.
In this regard, I note that the ombudsmans decision in favour of Mr W against P, which was
attached to Mr Ws particulars of claim, indicated that Mr Ws holding in the investment was
largely illiquid until such time as the property was sold. The ombudsman found that Mr W
needed to keep his interest in the LLP for seven years  if he failed to do so, any tax relief
attained would be clawed back by HMRC.
I also note that P had argued that the scheme failed because the LLP went into
administration and the hotel was sold. It said it should not be held responsible for Mr Ws
loss, as it had not caused the failure of the LLP and that there were many factors involved. 
But the ombudsman found:
I should say that I also dont agree with P that the key question is to determine why
the partnership failed nor do I agree that the complaint is brought with the benefit of
hindsight. Its clear that the failure of the partnership, and the total failure of Mr Ws
investment, has prompted his complaint. But, as I go on to explain below, there were
a number of inherent risks in the scheme which I am satisfied ought to have been
foreseen at the outset. Its one of the factors that meant the scheme itself carried a
high risk of capital loss  in addition to the fact that there were a number of reasons
why any relief paid by HMRC might need to be repaid by Mr W.
I have taken all of this into account and am of the view that Mr Ws circumstances, upon
entering the scheme, would seem to reflect the commercial straitjacket referenced in the
Halsall case. He was, at that point, effectively stuck in a defective scheme from which he
was unable to extract himself without sustaining loss. On that basis I dont think its
reasonable to say the subsequent insolvency of the LLP stood out as a contributing factor
to Ps liability. 
That is because Ps liability would have existed regardless of whether the
insolvency took place. I accept that in the Crowden case, the court ultimately held that the
exclusion clause did apply. But the important distinction is that the clause in that case
excluded cover not only for liabilities arising out of an insolvency, but also cover for claims,
liability, loss, costs or expenses. If, for instance, the exclusion clause in this case had been
drafted to exclude liability and loss arising from an insolvency, I would be more inclined to
say the exclusion applied. But cover for liability only is in my view clearly drafted more
narrowly than that.
So it follows that I dont think Zurich can turn down the claim on the basis of the exclusion
clause its cited.
Is it fair and reasonable for Zurich to apply the exclusion clause?
Ive also considered whether it would in any event be fair and reasonable for Zurich to apply
the exclusion clause in this case. In other words, if the exclusion clause did apply (which for the reasons Ive explained I dont 
think it does), would it be fair and reasonable for Zurich to apply it to the circumstances of Mr 
Ws claim?
N argue that it isnt fair of Zurich to do so in the light of an FCA consultation exercise (on the
future funding of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme - FSCS) which it says
concluded the use of these clauses wasnt fair and reasonable and led to changes in the
regulatory framework. And it says that although the policy pre-dated those changes, the
exclusion wasnt applied by Zurich until September 2019, which was after they had been
implemented.
I dont think theres a direct read across between the FCA consultation exercise and what
happened here because the FCAs focus was, in the main, on how clauses worded in this
way might prevent the FSCS from making a claim on the policy. The FCAs stated rationale
for the changes it subsequently made was the changes are intended to ensure that more
consumer claims are paid by insurers which could help to reduce the cost of the FSCS to
other firms.
But I do appreciate in its 2018 consultation paper the FCA said where a firm has, for
example, provided negligent financial advice for a consumer to invest in a fund, we do not
believe a claim on that firms PII should be excluded by virtue of the insured or the fund
becoming insolvent, provided the claim has been notified correctly and the product is not
otherwise excluded.
And, under the heading How this links to our objectives, the FCA went on to say:
Consumer protectionClauses in PII policies that prevent a person other than the PIF (eg
the FSCS) from making a claim could result in consumers not receiving the full amount of
compensation they are owed.
So I think it is reasonable to say the FCA did have broader concerns about clauses like this.
And it subsequently made changes to the relevant rules which required personal investment
firms to have professional indemnity insurance policies that didnt limit cover where the
policyholder or a third party is insolvent.
I accept it didnt make those changes retrospective and I appreciate that Ps liability and the
insolvency of the LLP both happened prior to the changes coming into force. However,
Zurichs decision on the claim (and therefore its application of the exclusion clause) took
place after the changes had been made. And the FCA was clear in its consultation paper
that it didnt believe claims should be excluded on the basis of the insolvency of the fund in
question. I think its reasonable to say that principle would also cover the insolvency of the
LLP in this case.
Taking into account the requirement in our rules to consider what is fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances of the case (and to take into account relevant regulators rules, guidance
and standards when doing so) Im satisfied that my decision that the exclusion clause does
not apply is also the fair and reasonable outcome in this case. This isnt about retrospective
application of the FCA rules on insolvency exclusions in professional indemnity insurance.
Rather, it is what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Further, I am satisfied that my view is also in line with the FCAs position that the cost of
meeting a consumers loss in these circumstances should be borne by the insured firm or its
insurer, rather than the FSCS (see para 3.5 of FCA Handbook Notice no. 60).Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Zurich made further points relating to 
our jurisdiction to consider the complaint. Ive explained in a separate decision why Im 
satisfied the complaint is within our jurisdiction. In relation to the merits it said:
The judgment in the Crowden case confirmed the insolvency exclusion could have 
broad effect. It thought my provisional decision was inconsistent in that Id 
accepted it was the LLPs insolvency that had led to the sale of the underlying 
property (and a clawback of the tax rebates). But Id nevertheless concluded the 
insolvency of the LLP didnt stand out as a contributing factor to Ps liability.
The judgment in the Halsall case predated that in Crowden and shouldnt impact 
the later judgment.
The FCAs rules following its consultation exercise on the future funding of the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme had taken effect from 1 June 2019 and 
didnt apply retrospectively. The policy in place between Zurich and P had incepted 
long before that date. So as a matter of law the new rules didnt apply to this policy.
Previous views wed expressed on the case were a more accurate reflection of the 
correct position  for example wed said that as Mr Ws losses were at the very least 
indirectly related to the LLPs insolvency the exclusion clause had been applied fairly 
by Zurich.
The provisional decision was arbitrary and inconsistent with what wed said in 
another complaint on which a different Ombudsman had issued a final decision. 
So it thought there had been an error in law here.
N also provided comments on behalf of Mr W. In summary it said:
It wasnt appropriate to ask Zurich to reconsider the claim against the remaining 
policy terms. It drew attention to the time this matter had taken and its concerns 
about Zurichs past conduct. It didnt think it would be fair for a further claim decline 
to have to be resolved through another complaint to our service
Zurich should be required to pay interest on all sums due under the policy from the 
point payment should have been made.
Mr W should be entitled to a payment for distress and inconvenience. It didnt agree 
Zurich had acted in a timely manner in relation to this claim as the exclusion clause 
hadnt been deployed until September 2019 which was three years after the claims 
were first made. And it didnt think it was fair to do so in any case. It provided an 
email from Mr W outlining the impact this matter had had on him and his family.
Not making an award would mean there was no adverse consequence for Zurich 
wrongly turning down the claim and arguing our service wasnt able to consider the 
complaint.
It was appropriate Mr W sought legal advice given the complexities of the case and 
it wouldnt be fair for him to pay the costs of that. So Zurich should reimburse him for 
these costs.It also set out actions it thought should be taken in relation to other complaints 
made to our service and on which a final decision hadnt been reached. And it 
made comments relating to how any awards made under the policy should be 
calculated.
It also requested the opportunity to see any submissions made by Zurich before a final 
decision on the complaint was reached.
So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurichs comments on my provisional decision
I agree the Crowden case is relevant to whats happened here. And Ive taken into account 
points the judge made, including his finding that for the exclusion to apply the insolvency 
must be specifically accountable as a cause of the claim, liability or loss: in this sense, it 
must be significant; it must stand out as a contributing factor, at least, to the claim, liability or 
loss.  Although it does not need to be the proximate cause.  
But I dont agree my provisional decision is inconsistent in relation to this or that it is 
internally inconsistent as suggested by Zurich. In saying this, Zurich has referred to a finding 
in my PD that it was the LLPs insolvency that had led to the sale of the underlying property 
(and a clawback of the tax rebates). It says this is inconsistent with my finding that the 
insolvency of the LLP did not stand out as a contributing factor to Ps liability.  
However, in referring to this part of my provisional decision, Zurich has omitted the full extent 
of my finding in which I explained that, once the arrangements for Mr W had first been made, 
it wouldnt have been possible for Mr W to extract himself from the scheme at all without 
loss.  It followed that in my view, the liability arose at the point he entered the scheme and 
would have existed regardless of whether the insolvency took place.  The insolvency may 
have compounded the loss suffered, but it did not bring about the liability (which had already 
been incurred).  
And Zurich does not seem to have acknowledged the clear differences between the 
exclusion clause in this case and the one in the Crowden case. The clause in that case 
excluded cover not only for liabilities arising out of an insolvency, but also cover for claims, 
liability, loss, costs or expenses. 
The exclusion in Zurichs policy is more narrowly worded to only exclude liability arising out 
of or relating directly or indirectly to the insolvency of a business with whom the investment 
was arranged. I explained in some detail in my provisional decision why I was satisfied the 
liability had accrued at the point the investment was arranged and why the subsequent 
insolvency of the LLP didnt therefore stand out as a contributing factor to that liability.  I 
said it is a significant distinguishing feature that Zurichs policy does not refer to claims, loss, 
costs or expenses arising out of the insolvency, and I made it clear that if it did, I would be 
more inclined to say the exclusion applied.  Zurich argues the Halsall case I referenced isnt relevant because it predates the Crowden 
case. However, it is my understanding that would only be relevant if the judgments were in 
conflict with each other. I dont think they are. In my view they involved entirely different 
issues - for instance, the Halsall case didnt relate to the interpretation of an exclusion clause 
in an insurance contract. Rather, it concerned a claim against the provider of allegedly 
negligent investment advice.
 
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I think the findings in both cases are 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. And I remain of the view that Zurich cant turn 
down the claim on the basis of the exclusion it cited.
Turning to the points Zurich raised about the FCA rules on exclusion clauses like this, I made 
clear in my provisional decision I was aware these rules werent retrospective. I accept that 
the relevant PI policy in this case was agreed by P before the date on which the FCAs new 
rules on insolvency exclusions took effect (1 June 2019).  But I also explained that our rules 
require us to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case (and 
to take into account relevant regulators rules, guidance standards and good industry practice 
when doing so). And, having taken into account what the FCA had said about these clauses, 
I was satisfied my decision that the exclusion clause didnt apply was also the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case. That remains my view.
Zurich also says my findings are inconsistent with a decision another Ombudsman issued 
on a different case. I dont agree. I have given careful regard to that case and in my view 
there are significant differences between the facts of that case and this complaint. In 
particular, I note that the other case doesnt involve a liability arising from investment 
advice and the arranging of an unsuitable investment.  Rather it involves a liability arising 
from a breach of contract that was brought about directly by the insolvency of a tour 
operator.  
In my view, the circumstances are completely different.  As I say, in this case the liability in 
question arose at the time the investment was entered into by Mr W and would have been 
incurred whether or not the insolvency took place.  That was not the case in the other 
complaint, where the liability of the tour operator in question came about only as a result of 
the insolvency of another tour operator.  It follows that I dont agree Ive been inconsistent 
with that case, as Zurich suggests, and in any event I should be clear that each complaint 
must be decided on its own merits.  Consistency in decision making is important, but the 
decisions of other ombudsmen do not operate as binding precedent.  
I also note the points Zurich makes about the findings of the adjudicator in this complaint.  
I appreciate my outcome differs to what she decided. But its not unusual for an 
Ombudsman to reach a different outcome when reaching a final decision. I dont agree that 
means Ive reached an arbitrary decision. Ive given the adjudicators views careful regard. 
However, I am required to reach my own view of the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint and Ive explained in detail in my provisional decision and in this final decision 
what the reasons for that outcome are.
Ns response to my provisional decision
I appreciate N thinks I should direct Zurich to pay this claim rather than reconsider it against 
the remaining policy terms. I recognise the matter has been ongoing for some time. But I 
nevertheless think its fair (and in line with our normal approach for complaints like this) for 
Zurich to have the opportunity to review the claim against the remaining policy terms. I acknowledge Ns concerns that Zurich might not reach a fair decision (which its reiterated 
in more recent correspondence), but I nevertheless think the right way to proceed is to allow 
Zurich to consider the claim afresh, and for any further dispute to be resolved between the 
parties or through a fresh complaint to Zurich and to our service if necessary. 
And because Im not directing Zurich to pay the claim, Im not able to make an interest 
award. My power to award interest is provided by s229 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 which provides: 
229 Awards.

(2) If a complaint which has been dealt with under the scheme is determined in 
favour of the complainant, the determination may include
(a) an award against the respondent of such amount as the ombudsman considers 
fair compensation for loss or damage suffered by the complainant (a money 
award);

(8) A money award
(a) may provide for the amount payable under the award to bear interest at a rate 
and as from a date specified in the award; and
It follows that Im only able to award interest on a money award (for example where were 
directing a business to make a payment for financial loss). That isnt the case here.
I appreciate N feels an award should be made for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr W. Ive read the email N provided in which Mr W goes into some detail about how hes 
been affected by what happened. I was sorry to learn of the impact on him and his family.
However, the focus of the email is primarily on the actions of P and the original investment 
advice it gave. That isnt something Zurich is responsible for. In this decision Im considering 
what happened after Mr W made his claim to Zurich (not what happened prior to that when P 
was in discussion with Zurich as the policyholder). Mr Ws claim to Zurich was made after 
the insolvency of P in July 2019 and Zurich had turned down his claim relying on the 
exclusion clause by early September. I dont think that timeframe was unreasonable in the 
circumstances so it remains my view that no payment for distress and inconvenience should 
be made.  
N says not making an award for distress and inconvenience would mean there was no 
adverse consequence to Zurich for wrongly turning down the claim. But its not our role to 
fine or punish a business. Thats the role of the regulator, the FCA, and I understand N has 
already contacted them. 
Our role is to consider whether fair compensation is required to compensate for distress or 
inconvenience caused to the complainant.  In this case I agree Zurich incorrectly turned 
down this claim, but it remains my view that this wasnt a straightforward case and (for the 
reasons Ive explained) there wasnt delay in Zurich considering it. I also think Zurich was entitled to raise its concerns about whether the complaint fell within 
our jurisdiction when Mr W first contacted us about it. Taking all of that into account it 
remains my view that the direction Ive made for it to reconsider the claim does enough to 
put things right in this case.
Ive also considered whether Zurich should reimburse Mr W for the legal costs he incurred. I 
recognise that, as N has said, our rules do allow us to direct a business to cover some or all 
of the costs reasonably incurred by the complainant in respect of a complaint (and include 
interest on that amount). But the rules also make clear that awards of costs are unlikely to be 
common because in most cases complainants should not need professional advisers to 
bring their complaint to our service.
In this case I understand why Mr W sought professional help with his complaint.  I 
acknowledge, for instance, that it would have been difficult for him to have progressed his 
complaint without the legal support that enabled him to obtain a judgment by consent against 
Zurich.  But his representatives told us they commenced those proceedings in March 2018 
(prior to both Ps insolvency and Zurichs decision to turn down the claim). So I dont think 
costs incurred in relation to that can be ones Zurich is responsible for. 
I appreciate Mr W may have incurred some further costs in moving those proceedings 
(which had been stayed) to a conclusion but, in my view, that is a cost he would have 
needed to incur in all likelihood at some point in order to access his rights under the 2010 
Act. The other costs he incurred in connection with the bringing of his complaint more 
generally were not costs he needed to incur and therefore, in my view, this is not an 
appropriate case in which to make an award of costs against Zurich.  
I note the comments N has made about other complaints and the calculation of any award 
under the policy. But Im only considering in this decision the complaint Mr W made about 
the decline of his claim relating to investment advice provided in 2012. I cant consider here 
complaints from others who arent party to this complaint. And if Mr W is unhappy with any 
further decisions made by Zurich in connection with his claim, and that leads to a dispute 
that cannot be resolved between them, then Mr W would need to refer the matter back to 
this office as a separate complaint.
All in all, and for the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied that Zurich has correctly or fairly 
turned down Mr Ws claim and it will need to reconsider this against the remaining policy 
terms. As I outlined in my provisional decision, Ive therefore not needed to consider the 
alternative points N has raised about the past correspondence between Zurich and P and 
any estoppel or waiver it says has come about as a result.
Finally, I recognise N wanted to see Zurichs response to my provisional decision prior to a 
final decision being reached. But Ive considered Zurichs response and I dont consider it 
has raised any new material points that might lead me to change my views. In light of the 
considerable period of time that has already elapsed in the consideration of this dispute, and 
in the interests of drawing the matter to a close as quickly as possible, I dont think there is a 
need to obtain comments from N on this prior to me reaching this final decision.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. The insolvency exclusion clause should not be applied 
by Zurich to decline Mr Ws claim.  Zurich Insurance PLC will need to reconsider Mr Ws 
claim against the remaining policy terms. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman