DRN-3759491
The complaint
Mr M, complains on behalf of B - a sole trader, about the deactivation of a sellers account 
with Amazon Payments UK Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both B and Amazon. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
B had an Amazon sellers account. In September 2020 Amazon let B know that the account 
had been deactivated and funds withheld. They asked B for further information about their 
business activities. Amazon later returned some of the withheld funds, but around £2,000 
was retained whilst their investigations were ongoing. 
B complained to Amazon. They didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy, they referred the 
complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
this complaint be upheld. Recently, Amazon told our Service that theyd released the 
remaining funds back to B. As B didnt accept the Investigators recommendations, the 
complaint has now been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
As an authorised UK payments institution, Amazon has a responsibility to take proportionate 
steps to verify their customers and their business activities. Often this process is referred to 
as Knowing your customer (KYC).
I find that it was reasonable of Amazon to request further information from B about their 
business. The information B provided didnt go far enough to satisfy Amazons requirements 
and it wasnt unreasonable to request further evidence. 
B has told us: I would like to remind you that Amazon held my funds for more then 2 years 
without any valid reason. But the evidence shows an acceptable level of information about 
the supply of goods wasnt provided. Therefore, Amazon retained the funds in dispute here  
as the agreement terms allowed them to do. I dont find that Amazon have acted unfairly, 
unreasonably or disproportionately in doing so. 
Amazon have recently told our Service that theyve released the remaining funds. I find this 
to be a fair resolution to the complaint and dont require Amazon to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman