DRN-3515097
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) rescinded his overdraft facility 
and defaulted his account without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr S held an account with Tesco with a £100 overdraft facility since 2017. Mr S made use of 
the overdraft facility and regularly made payments on it until May 2020 when no further 
credits came into the account. Mr T continued to spend on the overdraft until he reached his 
limit in July at which point Tesco took the decision to remove the overdraft.
Tesco sent Mr S a number of letters to at the address it had registered for him about the 
status of his account. The letters confirmed his overdraft was being removed, what the 
outstanding balance of his overdraft was and explained what would happen if payment 
wasnt received by 18 September. 
Following further letters and no response, a final demand letter was sent on 27 October and 
the account was closed and default registered on 3 November. These letters were returned 
to Tescos. As well as the letters, Tesco sent Mr S text messages in July, August and 
November asking that he get in touch and says that his online statements showed the status 
of his account and that he could see from the statement that his overdraft had been removed 
as next to the words Arranged overdraft limit it was recorded as None, while previously it 
said £100.00.
Mr S says due to the pandemic and difficult family circumstances including a bereavement 
he moved from the address Tesco had recorded for him in April 2020 and he didnt receive 
any of the letters. Mr S updated his address online on 4 November and got in touch with 
Tesco and paid the outstanding balance as soon as he realised what had happened in 
December 2020.
Mr S complained to Tesco that it defaulted his account when he wasnt notified of it. Tesco 
said no error was made as it followed the correct procedures and gave notice about what 
was to happen to his account if he didnt pay the outstanding balance - including applying a 
default to his credit file. It says it had a legal obligation to issue certain letters by post and 
that its the customers responsibility to ensure that their contact details are correct.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss concerns and reached the conclusion that Tesco 
had followed the correct processes in line with the terms and conditions of the account, but 
thought that given Mr Ss circumstances it was understandable why he hadnt updated his 
contact details. They thought Tesco couldve done more to inform Mr S what was happening 
with his account and that Tesco should remove the default.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in May 2022. In 
my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Tesco accepted the decision and although Mr S had further comments, he didnt 
provide any further information that hadnt already been considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
My role is to look at the problems Mr S has experienced and see if Tesco has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr S back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Ss main complaint point is that it was unfair Tesco registered a default on his credit file 
when he hadnt received notice of this. He says had he known what was to happen hed 
have paid the balance straight away. 
So the question I have to ask is whether Tesco did anything wrong in closing Mr Ss
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing his account 
and registering a default when he didnt pay back the outstanding balance of his overdraft in 
the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator in that having reviewed Tescos actions it followed the 
correct processes in line with the terms and conditions of the account and was able to take 
the decision to withdraw the overdraft following a lack of credits into the account.
But I dont agree that Tesco should have done more to notify Mr S about the status of his 
account and the actions it was taking.  I accept and sympathise with Mr S that during the 
period in question it was a very difficult time for him and his family. But Tesco werent 
informed of his circumstances or that he had available funds in another account which 
couldve cleared the balance of his overdraft. 
And I dont think there was much more Tesco couldve done - Mr S didnt tell it hed moved, 
didnt respond to text messages and didnt pay attention to his account and unfortunately the 
result of that is his account was defaulted. I understand that updating his address mightnt 
have been a priority for Mr S, but ultimately the responsibility of this was his and Mr S was 
able to do this simply online. 
So I dont think Tesco acted unfairly when it registered a default of Mr Ss credit file. I 
understand that Mr S is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but
Tesco has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  and what was reported is as far as 
Im aware a true reflection of what happened. 
It might assist Mr S to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as I dont think Tesco has done anything wrong or treated Mr S 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman