DRN-3990650
The complaint
Mr K has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in March 2022, 
using a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
Mr K acquired a new Mini in March 2022, using a hire-purchase agreement with BMWFS. 
The cost of the car was just over £31,000, of which Mr K borrowed £27,100.01 over a term 
of 48 months with a monthly repayment of £380.69. There would be a final payment of 
£12,247.85 due if Mr K decided to keep the car at the end of the term. 
Mr K first raised concerns with the dealership in early July 2022, reporting intermittent 
problems with the operation of the parking brake. Mr K took the car to the dealership, but the 
fault could not be identified. Shortly after this, the problem with the parking brake reoccurred, 
so Mr K again reported this to the dealership, this time providing video evidence showing the 
fault happening. The dealership accepted the videos as evidence of a fault and the parking 
brake switch was replaced. 
Mr K collected the car on 21 July 2022, but two days later the issue with the parking brake 
occurred again. He contacted the dealership and was told to bring the car back in. Mr K said 
that, that evening, the issue with the parking brake occurred again, but this time the car 
lurched forward when he had his foot on the brake pedal and prior to this there was a 
warning light on the dashboard instructing him to apply the brake, even though his foot was 
firmly on the brake pedal. He took the car back to the dealership the following day, again 
providing video evidence of the fault, but this time the dealership didnt accept this as 
sufficient evidence. The car was returned to Mr K, with the dealership advising that they 
hadnt been able to find or replicate the fault, and therefore no repairs had been done.
After this, Mr K complained to BMWFS, and it issued its final response letter in September 
2022. In summary, BMWFS said that it had contacted the dealership, but in the absence of a 
confirmed fault, it couldnt agree that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and therefore it 
would not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K was unhappy with this, and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint, and concluded that it should be upheld. BMWFS responded to 
suggest an independent inspection of the car be carried out, but otherwise did not comment 
on the investigators findings, and therefore the investigator referred the complaint for review 
by an ombudsman. An independent inspection has now been carried out, with the inspector 
unable to replicate the fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was new, and I think any reasonable person would expect it to 
be free of any faults or defects.
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality. 
Mr K had had the car for just over four months when he first contacted the dealership, so the 
short-term right to reject doesnt apply here. 
Mr K sent in details of the sequence of events, together with copies of email exchanges with 
the dealership and four videos showing the issue with the parking brake. The dates of the 
videos (taken from the video file properties) are 19 July (two videos) 26 July and 9 
December 2022. BMWFS sent in copies of its records of Mr Ks complaint, along with the 
hire purchase agreement and, later on, the copy of the independent report. 
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence provided. BMWFS has said that theres no 
evidence of the fault with the parking brake, so it doesnt agree that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. And I accept that neither the dealership nor the independent inspector 
has been able to replicate the fault. However, Mr K has said from the start that the issue was 
intermittent, so its not entirely surprising that it may have proved difficult to replicate. 
I can see from the independent report that the inspector checked the underside of the rear of 
the vehicle for any visible damage to the handbrake mechanism, but he said most of it was 
covered by splash shields, so I dont think that is conclusive. 
Set against this is the video evidence provided by Mr K. Two of the videos date from the 
period after the parking brake switch was replaced, and they clearly show the parking brake 
not operating correctly, in the same way as in the earlier videos taken before the repair. The 
dates of the videos are consistent with Mr Ks information about the sequence of events, as 
well as the email exchange with the dealership. I find this evidence persuasive, and 
therefore it seems to me that there is a fault  albeit intermittent  with the parking brake.
The fault first occurred around four months after Mr K acquired the car. I have limited 
information about the mileage, but from what I can see from the videos and Mr Ks 
testimony, it is below average. And Ive not seen anything to make me think that Mr K has 
caused or contributed to the fault occurring. So I think its most likely that the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply. I think Mr K ought reasonably to have expected 
a new car to be free from this type of defect when he acquired it. So my conclusion is that 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, nor did it conform to contract 
after the repair, so I think it fair for Mr K to reject it. So Ive decided to uphold this complaint.  
Although there have been these issues with the car, Mr K has had use of it, and the email 
exchange with the dealership shows that he had use of a courtesy car when necessary, so I dont consider it fair to require BMWFS to refund the monthly payments made under the 
agreement. 
However, I do consider it fair to require BMWFS to pay an amount of £200 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K because of the issue with the car  he has 
had repeated trips to the dealership and has described how he has limited his use of the car 
over safety concerns, especially where young children would have been with him. 
Putting things right
BMWFS should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Mr K.
Refund Mr Ks deposit contribution of £4000, adding 8% simple interest* per year 
from the date he paid it to the date the compensation is paid.
Pay £200 for the inconvenience Mr K experienced due to the fault with the car.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file (if any has been added).
*if BMWFS considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited should pay Mr K the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman