DRN-3368871
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that National Deposit Friendly Society Limited (NDFS Limited) declined a 
claim he made on a private medical insurance scheme.
What happened
Mr I has held a Care Plus plan with NDFS Limited for many years. The plan is designed to 
provide sickness and medical benefits and is based on the principle that policyholders make 
a contribution towards each claim which is paid under the scheme. 
Mr I tried to claim on his policy for a dental veneer. The claim was rejected on the basis that 
it was a cosmetic dental treatment and because it wasnt a listed treatment. Mr I didnt think 
this was fair as the alternative was a crown, which was more expensive and invasive  he 
provided a letter from his dentist explaining why veneers were selected instead of a crown. 
He complained to NDFS Limited, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr I complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that NDFS Limited had fairly declined the claim, based on the policy terms. Mr I 
didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He reiterated that hed been 
treated unfairly and said the policy terms werent fair. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that NDFS Limited has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions set out the exclusion for medical benefits. It says that 
medical benefit will not be paid if: 
Your treatment is not mentioned on the scale of allowances; 
The claim is for a general exclusion. 
There is also a general exclusion which says: 
Claims for the following will not be paid in any circumstances: 
Cosmetic treatments of any type, including cosmetic dental work.
Ive also taken into account the Scale of allowances for Medical Benefit which says that 
there is: 
Dental Allowance for complete or partial dentures, crowns, bridges and capping of 
teeth (whether NHS or private).
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Veneers arent specifically referenced on the scale of allowances for medical 
benefit. Treatment that isnt mentioned on the scale of allowances wont be 
covered. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for NDFS Limited to decline the 
claim based on the policy terms Ive outlined above.
NFDS Limited is entitled to make a commercial decision about what treatment 
it will, and wont, cover. I appreciate that Mr I considers this to be semantics, 
and that his veneer was cheaper than a crown. But, NDFS Limited has set out 
in the contract what treatment is covered. 
Ive taken into account the letter from Mr Is dentist which explains that Mr I 
chose a veneer to preserve as much tooth structure as possible because 
crowns would have involved the removal of more enamel and dentine. But, 
that doesnt mean that NDFS Limited has to cover the procedure. I think its 
fairly declined the claim as its not a listed treatment on the scale of 
allowances. 
Mr I says that the contract terms are unfair. I dont agree as I think the 
limitations of the policy were clearly set out both in the medical benefit section 
of the policy and the general exclusions. No insurance policy covers every 
eventuality and its common for insurers to exclude certain types of treatment. 
I think it was sufficiently clear that the policy covered treatments listed on the 
scale of allowances. Based on the evidence available to me I think the terms 
were clearly explained in the policy and Im not persuaded that the terms 
were unfair to Mr I. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman