DRN-2319209
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave her the wrong type of 
life assurance in 2010.
What happened
Mrs B called Aviva and took out her life assurance policy in 2010. Aviva wrote a letter to her 
on 20 September 2010, which explained the policy would last for 25 years. 
Mrs B only noticed this recently. She says this was wrong, as when she called Aviva she 
wanted to set up a policy that didnt have a set term to it. 
Aviva considered Mrs Bs complaint, but said they saw nothing to say theyd acted 
unreasonably. Mrs B brought the matter to us, but our investigator also found no evidence 
that Aviva had done anything wrong. 
Mrs B asked to take the complaint further, so its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate the life assurance here isnt as Mrs B wants it, I cant see thats 
because of any mistake by Aviva. So Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Ideally, Id be able to listen to exactly what was said in 2010, when Mrs B called Aviva and 
took out the policy. But Aviva have told us they cant track down a copy of that call. Im not 
going to criticise them for not having a copy, given how much time has passed. 
The details of the policy that Aviva sent to Mrs B should have been enough to put right any 
confusion about what had been set up. The documents are quite clear that the policy has a 
25-year term. 
I appreciate Mrs B told our investigator she didnt look at these documents at the time. But I 
find Aviva did enough by sending the documents to give Mrs B a fair chance to see what had 
been set up for her, and so correct any mistakes at an earlier stage. 
There doesnt appear to have been any advice given with the policy. So it doesnt look like 
Aviva had any details about Mrs Bs plans for the policy that could have told them its 25-year 
term wasnt right. 
In all, I see no evidence that Aviva have caused a mistake or acted unreasonably here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman