DRN-3480618
The complaint
Mr O complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. unfairly turned down a claim on his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O was visiting another country and had two phones, a watch and cash stolen from his 
room. He contacted Mapfre to claim on his policy for the stolen items. 
Mapfre reviewed the claim and asked Mr O some additional questions and for documents to 
validate his claim. Some of the questions Mapfre asked Mr O for were the IMEI numbers for 
the stolen phones, confirmation both phones had been blocked, confirmation one of the 
phones had been given to him, the reason his brother had sent him money, how much cash 
hed taken away with him, the reason why the delivery address was different to his address 
and confirmation of where Mr Os wife worked as some invoices had her work address as 
the delivery address. 
Mr O provided the sales invoices for some of the items, the IMEI number for one of the 
phones, and payment details for some of the items. Mr O refused to say how much currency 
hed taken away, he also said he couldnt get the phones blocked due to them having foreign 
sim cards in when they were stolen. Mr O also refused to provide confirmation from his 
brother about why hed sent Mr O cash and refused to provide confirmation from his wife that 
shed given him one of the phones. Mr O also didnt explain the reason he had two phones. 
He also complained to Mapfre about not paying his claim. 
Mapfre reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said they have a responsibility to 
validate claims and ensure theyre genuine which is what theyd tried to do. However, as Mr 
O hadnt cooperated with Mapfre and provided the documents asked for, this had raised 
more concerns. Because of this Mapfre stood by their decision not to pay Mr Os claim. Mr O 
didnt agree and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found that 
Mapfre had made reasonable requests to validate Mr Os claim, and Mr O had refused to 
answer some of the questions or provide documents requested. Because of this he found 
Mapfre had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has come to 
me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term Mapfre have relied upon to turn down Mr Os claim says:
You must give Virgin Money Travel Insurance Claims and/or 
Emergency Medical Assistance all the documents they need to deal 
with any claim. You will be responsible for any costs
involved in doing this.
This is a general condition of Mr Os policy. Ive therefore looked at whether Mapfre are 
acting fairly and reasonably when saying Mr O hasnt provided the information needed to 
deal with his claim. 
Mapfre reviewed the information Mr O provided and had some questions about it. They could 
see the delivery address on invoices was different to that of Mr Os address, on one invoice 
Mr O said this was due to an error by the seller, so Mapfre asked for confirmation of this. But 
it wasnt provided. Regarding the other invoices, Mr O said this was because the items were 
delivered to his wifes work address, so Mapfre asked for confirmation of this. Again, Mr O 
didnt provide it. 
For one of the phones stolen, Mr O couldnt provide the IMEI number and said the phone had 
been given to him by his wife, so he didnt have the original documents for it. Mapfre asked 
for confirmation of this phone being given to him and asked Mr O if his wife could obtain the 
IMEI number for him. Mr O didnt provide either of these. 
From looking at the claim Im satisfied Mapfre has asked Mr O reasonable questions to verify 
the claim. I can also see there are documents requested which Mr O has either refused to 
provide or said he cant provide. While I understand its not possible to always get everything 
asked for, Im not satisfied Mapfre is being unreasonable in this case. I say this because 
there are multiple stolen items where either the questions havent been answered, or the 
documents not provided, without valid justification. I can also see Mapfre made reasonable 
attempts to get this information from Mr O. Im therefore not going to interfere with Mapfres 
decision to decline Mr Os claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman