DRN-3907873
The complaint
Mr O complained that his settlement for his watch was unfair following a claim with Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva) under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Aviva accepted a claim made by Mr O for an expensive and rare watch. However, Mr O was 
unhappy with the settlement that was offered. Mr O said he bought the watch for £42,000 
and he said the value of the watch had increased to around £55,000. He said hed kept 
Aviva informed of the increasing value and had paid increased insurance premiums as a 
result.
Aviva offered to replace the watch via its preferred supplier, but it said as the watch was rare 
it was likely that it wouldnt be able to provide the replacement for 18-24 months. Due to the 
lead time, Aviva offered a cash settlement of £33,875 as an alternative or a voucher with its 
preferred jewellery supplier of £35,850. Aviva said its offer was consistent with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr O said hes happy to receive a replacement watch, but he said the lead time is 
unreasonable. He said its possible to purchase a replacement watch of this type in a few 
days. He has received the settlement from Aviva as he said he needed the money urgently. 
But, hes complained as he wanted a replacement for his watch provided within a reasonable 
timeframe or a settlement for an amount that would allow him to go out and buy a 
replacement watch himself.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought as the watch couldnt be 
replaced immediately, she didnt think it was fair to strictly apply the terms and conditions of 
the policy in respect to cash settling at the price it wouldve cost Aviva to replace the item. 
Therefore, she thought Aviva should cash settle at the market value. Aviva disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 7 December 2022. I said:
I have reviewed the approach Aviva followed in settling the claim. The policy sets out how 
Aviva can settle claims. It states:
we can choose to settle your claim by: replacing; reinstating; repairing; payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to make a cash 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
I think the policy is clear that Aviva can choose to replace the watch in settlement of the 
claim and to indemnify the loss. Therefore, I think Aviva were fair in offering this as its 
chosen method to Mr O. However, Mr O was unhappy that he would have to wait 18 to 24 
months to receive the watch.
I do think this is a long time for Mr O to receive a replacement. However, I also recognise 
that valuable and rare watches are in high demand, so I have considered whether the lead 
time in this case was reasonable. Mr O has said he could source a replacement in only a few 
days  unfortunately, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support his statement.
I have considered what Avivas supplier said in respect to this specific watch. It said 
I can confirm at the time of our assessment (May 2022) the watch retailed at £35,850.00 
with a lead time of 18-24 months.
Due to the time that has lapsed since then, the model now retails at £37,750.00. As the 
watch is such a sought-after [branded] timepiece, the waiting list is now closed.
This is another example of what we are seeing with customers increasing / setting their 
specified amount at the second-hand value, which is double, sometimes triple the watches 
true worth and current new RRP. In this case the watch was purchased for £41,500 in Dec 
2021 yet specified at the higher rate of £56,000.
[We] are the lead stockist of [this brand] of watches and we would only source direct from 
[the manufacturer] and our stock availability. The watch we assessed against was IDR but 
new opposed to second-hand.
A [highly sought after branded model] was queried by the customer but as this timepiece is 
even more highly sought after than the model being claimed, the wait list was already closed 
at that point.
I think Avivas supplier has provided a considered response in relation to the specific 
circumstances of this claim. I find the details provided by this expert to be persuasive. I think 
its reasonable for Aviva to use a reputable supplier to replace the new watch - as it could be 
found liable if there are any issues in the quality or reliability of the watch provided. I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Aviva to supply a product that is from the second-hand market 
at potentially an inflated price. Therefore, I think Aviva was fair in saying it would replace the 
watch and has justified why the lead time was so long.
However, as Mr O was unhappy with this lead time, Aviva offered him a cash alternative. I 
think this was a reasonable approach. Aviva provided a cash offer equivalent to what it 
wouldve cost them to replace the item. As this is consistent with the terms and conditions of 
the policy, then I think this offer is fair. 
Based on the evidence provided, I think Aviva has dealt with this claim fairly, so I dont 
intend to uphold it. If Mr O can provide evidence that he wouldve been able to source a new 
watch of this rare type from a reputable supplier in significantly shorter timeframes than 
Aviva could, then I would expect Aviva to re-consider the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr O disagreed with my provisional decision. He said the price Aviva settled for was lower 
than what hed paid originally to purchase his watch. He said Aviva has under paid as he 
couldnt go out and purchase a new watch for the settlement amount. Mr O said hes 
provided evidence that the watch can be bought immediately from a reputable jeweller for 
£42,500.
He said the settlement Aviva has paid is lower as its based on a long lead time for the watch. Mr O said he cant provide a quotation for the watch when it appreciated to £55,000.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision and it reviewed the additional evidence that was 
provided by Mr O from his reputable jeweller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva have reviewed the evidence provided by Mr O. It said:
Our jewellery supplier has confirmed to me that the document from [Mr Os selected 
jeweller] is an alternate estimate to replace the watch.
We note that it does not confirm that they have this readily available, nor is the document 
dated. This is for a second-hand replacement, hence, the increased value of the watches 
'true worth'.
While [Mr O] may have valued watch [the watch] at £55,000, the policy clearly states we will 
only pay what it would cost us to replace the item.
I need the evidence that Mr O has provided to show clearly that he could have a purchased 
a new watch of the specific type from a reputable jeweller at the time of the claim and 
settlement. Unfortunately, I dont find the information provided gives evidence of this and so I 
wont be changing my decision.
I have reviewed Avivas response and the evidence that has been provided by Mr O. I agree 
with what Aviva have said  the document doesnt confirm that the watch is readily available, 
and the document isnt dated. Aviva said the document shows a second-hand watch. I dont 
think this is clear the document simply states, current market replacement value. However, 
whilst agree this is an important detail and wouldve needed clarifying, its not the deciding 
factor for me here.
Mr O said he couldve sourced the watch quickly at the time of the claim and the value was 
much higher than what was settled. However, he hasnt provided evidence to support this. 
The document doesnt show: whether the watch was a new watch or a second hand watch, 
doesnt show what date the jeweller provided the information, doesnt show the value of the 
watch at the time of the claim, doesnt show that the watch was readily available at the time 
of the claim and doesnt show that the lead time was immediate as Mr O has suggested.
Aviva have provided a detailed statement from its own supplier which is specific to the 
circumstances of this claim. It shows the watch wasnt available as Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. I find this statement to be more persuasive.
Mr O has set out the settlement value he was paid was too low. But as Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, Aviva are entitled to pay what it would cost them to replace the item. 
Aviva has evidenced what it wouldve had to pay, and it has settled at this amount. I 
appreciate Mr O couldnt source the watch on the open market at this amount, but as Aviva 
has met the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont think it has acted unreasonably. So, I 
dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman