DRN-2932563
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Coventry Building Society wouldnt reduce the term of their 
mortgage, therefore allowing them to make increased payments. They wanted to amend the 
mortgage term to one year, which would equate to payments of around £23,000 a month.
Mr and Mrs P redeemed the mortgage in March 2020, incurring an early repayment charge 
(ERC) of around £7,300. They say the ERC was unreasonable and disproportionate and 
constituted a penalty.
Mr and Mrs P raised some other points after this complaint was referred to us. As our 
investigator explained, wed need copies of the relevant final response letters from Coventry 
to be able to look into those issues. 
In any event I couldnt simply add those complaint points onto this complaint as Coventry 
hasnt had the opportunity to send us its defence of those claims. So, to be clear, all this 
decision relates to is the two points I mention above which formed the original complaint that 
was referred to us.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr and Mrs P. Its the nature 
of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings 
are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably. 
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs P entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer contains the following information:
10. What happens if you do not want this mortgage any more?
Early Repayment Charges
The fees which apply if the mortgage is repaid in full or in part, or if you transfer to another 
mortgage scheme, are shown below.
A mortgage exit fee is also payable if you repay this mortgage early. The current level of 
this fee is £125.00.
Theres then a table which shows the ERCs as (with cash examples):
5% of the outstanding balance repaid until 31 March 2019 (£19,000)
3% of the outstanding balance repaid until 31 March 2022 (£10,717.13)
1% of the outstanding balance repaid until 31 March 2017 (£3,209.90)
The following section states:
11. What happens if you want to make overpayments?
For this mortgage, you will, during the period where early repayment charges apply, be 
allowed to overpay by up to 10% of the mortgage balance outstanding, each calendar year 
without having to pay an early repayment charge (changing your mortgage). The mortgage 
balance outstanding is taken at the 1 January or at the start of your mortgage, whichever 
occurred last.
During the period where early repayment charges apply, any payments above the annual 
limit will be subject to an early repayment charge (changing your mortgage) on the basis 
shown in section 10 of this Offer. If you repay your mortgage off in full you will be charged 
an early repayment charge (ending your mortgage) on the entire outstanding mortgage 
balance required to redeem your mortgage.
Mr P was being made redundant and his redundancy pay out, combined with their savings, 
would be enough to repay the mortgage. But they didnt want to have to pay the ERC.
Mr and Mrs P wanted to reduce their term to one year, as they say then they wouldnt have 
had to pay an ERC because their mortgage would have come to a natural end, rather than 
being repaid early. Unfortunately, Coventry wasnt able to reduce the term in that way as 
Mr and Mrs P didnt meet the affordability checks as their income couldnt support mortgage 
payments of around £23,000 a month.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Coventry was obliged to carry out an affordability 
check for the term change; that was a regulatory requirement so it had no way round that. 
Ive also looked at Coventrys lending policy, as well as thinking about normal industry 
practice. Having done so Im satisfied Coventry did nothing wrong when it said it couldnt use 
Mr Ps redundancy payment plus their savings as a form of income in that affordability 
assessment.
Mr and Mrs P say they would have used those funds to pay the mortgage payments of 
around £23,000 each month but Coventry couldnt be sure of that, and Mr and Mrs Ps 
monthly income simply couldnt support that level of payment. Whilst it is acknowledged that 
anything can change once a mortgage is agreed, such as a job could be lost so there is no 
notable income, that is very different to a lender agreeing to a new mortgage (or a material change to an existing mortgage) that is unaffordable based on the consumers income. It is 
not unusual for a lender to be told there are savings available  perhaps to repay a mortgage 
at the end of the term  but when it comes to the time those savings are needed, the money 
has been spent on other things. Mr and Mrs P may say that wouldnt be the case here, but 
Coventry couldnt know that for sure.
The mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs P entered into allowed them to make overpayment of 
up to 10% of the balance each year. The term reduction option would simply be a way to try 
to circumvent the contract to avoid paying an ERC for an early repayment. If Mr and Mrs P 
had the income to support the term reduction then Ive no reason to believe it wouldnt have 
been granted. But Coventrys lending policy doesnt class savings or a redundancy lump 
sum payment as income, and so the term reduction was deemed unaffordable under the 
policy Coventry had to follow.
Mr and Mrs P said they offered to place the entire amount needed in escrow with a solicitor, 
and have the solicitor give Coventry an undertaking that the monthly payments would be 
made. Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs P feel that offered a fair solution that is a bespoke 
agreement that Coventry would have needed to enter into, and I cant find it unreasonable 
that Coventry wasnt willing to do so. Coventry treated Mr and Mrs P in the same way it 
would have treated any other of its customers, and it simply didnt have to agree to any 
bespoke options or to set-aside its lending policy however much Mr and Mrs P may have 
wanted it to.
All things considered, Im satisfied Coventry didnt do anything wrong when it refused the 
request to reduce the mortgage term.
The rules of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of 
mortgages of similar type, rather than for individual loans. 
Coventry is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of Mr and Mrs P ending 
their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early termination 
of a group of mortgages of similar type. And theres no obligation on Coventry to vary that 
amount because Mr P had been made redundant. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers (both 
new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally 
fixed in advance. But a lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs in the form 
of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its borrowed. If a mortgage ends 
early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising the funds to 
offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Coventry is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, but for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Coventry doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. In fact here 
Coventry has shown that it was an under-calculation and its actual loss when Mr and Mrs P 
redeemed their mortgage was around £12,000, rather than the roughly £7,300 it charged 
them as an ERC.In the circumstances, Im satisfied Coventry was entitled to charge Mr and Mrs P an ERC as 
set out in their mortgage contract when they repaid their mortgage early. Im also satisfied 
Coventry was allowed to charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early 
termination of a group of mortgages of similar type, and that the information it has provided 
to us shows the ERC set out in the mortgage contract was fair.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Coventry didnt act unreasonably and for 
that reason I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman