DRN-3480213
The complaint
Mr B complains about the transfer of a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
that he has with Quilter Investment Platform Limited. 
What happened
In early April 2021 Mr B received a contract note from Quilter saying his ISA was being 
transferred to another provider. Mr B contacted Quilter saying he hadnt requested any 
transfer.
Quilter looked into what happened and said that a transfer request had been received from 
Mr Bs independent financial adviser (IFA). By that time the sale of the investment had 
already been processed so to fix the issue a new ISA was opened and the funds were 
returned from the new provider. 
Mr B complained as he suffered a financial loss in his ISA due to what happened. Quilter 
didnt uphold the complaint saying they were unaware of any transfer cancellation before the 
investment was sold.
Remaining unhappy Mr B came to our service where one of our Investigators considered the 
complaint. They didnt think Quilter had made any errors with what happened. Quilter offered 
Mr B £150 for the customer service he had received when they were looking into the issue. 
Mr B didnt accept the offer so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that something went wrong here and that what happened has caused Mr B a 
financial loss. In order to say that Quilter should cover that loss I need to be satisfied that 
they were the cause of, or contributed in some way to, the problem. And having considered 
everything that happened I dont think thats the case.
Quilter received an instruction to transfer Mr Bs ISA from his IFA who was authorised to act 
on his behalf. I havent seen anything to show why Quilter shouldve questioned this 
instruction. An ISA transfer is a regular type of transaction for a business like Quilter and 
they are often received from IFAs acting on a consumers behalf. So I think they acted 
correctly by selling the investment and initiating the transfer.
When Mr B found out about the transfer instruction he contacted Quilter as soon as possible. 
Unfortunately by this time the investment had already been sold and the transfer started. 
Mr B found out because he received a contract note confirming the sale so by this time it 
was too late to do anything. It took a few more days for the funds to be transferred to the 
new provider but because the process had already started it wasnt possible for it to be 
stopped or reversed. 
Mr B says that Quilter shouldve acted on his instruction when he contacted them. But as Ive 
explained above it was too late to stop the transfer happening because by then the 
investment had already been sold. Its clear Mr B told Quilter he didnt want the transfer to go 
ahead, but because of the rules around ISA transfers it couldnt be reversed. 
To fix the issue a new ISA was opened for Mr B and the funds were returned. Because of 
what had happened Mr B has suffered a financial loss in his ISA which now has a lower 
value of units. But this isnt because of any mistakes made by Quilter. When the funds were 
returned they were processed by Quilter in an efficient manner as I would expect in an ISA 
transfer. 
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied that Quilter acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr Bs ISA and that no errors were made by them. 
I dont think Quilter made any mistakes when selling the investment and starting the ISA 
transfer. Nor do I think they made any errors when processing the return of the funds. So I 
wont be asking them to make any payment to Mr B. Thats not to say that Mr B hasnt 
suffered a financial loss; I think its clear he has. But what happened wasnt the fault of 
Quilter.
Quilter have offered Mr B £150 for the customer service he received from them when they 
were looking into the issue. They apologise that it took longer than it should have and that 
the service he received couldve been better. 
Looking at the service Mr B received from Quilter, keeping in mind that they werent 
responsible for what happened, I think the £150 is a fair and reasonable offer to resolve that 
aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
Quilter should pay Mr B £150 for the level of customer service he received.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Quilter Investment Platform Limited should pay Mr B £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman