DRN-4255956
The complaint
Mr O complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited wont release his funds to him.
What happened
Mr O says his account was restricted while £134.07 was in his account with no reason 
provided and he was requested to upload a photograph of himself holding identification. He 
says he does not agree with it due to data privacy concerns and this isnt outlined in their 
terms and conditions. Mr O says he doesnt wish to use this account anymore and he has 
requested multiple times for his account to be reactivated so he can withdraw his funds, but 
Paysafe will not do this, which he believes is not in line with their terms and conditions. He 
said he previously uploaded all required documents to verify his account. Mr O made a 
complaint to Paysafe.
Paysafe did not uphold Mr Os complaint. They said following an internal audit on 5 
September 2022, they took a decision to restrict his account for payments and they 
requested a holding identification image to be provided before reactivating the account. They 
said they have not received the requested document so they were not in the position to 
refund the available balance back to the source as the full deposited amount from his card 
was not available anymore and they cant insert partial card refunds. Mr O brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Os complaint. He said the checks that Paysafe are 
wanting to complete and the actions theyve took, are largely down to the terms and 
conditions of the account, so they were able to do what theyve done as it forms part of the 
contract Mr O has with them, which was agreed to when the account was taken out. He said 
Paysafe and Mr O have an ongoing relationship, so things do change over time. Our 
investigator said that businesses introduce various processes to allow them to satisfy their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Businesses will engage with their customers over time, and 
the relationship doesnt just stop at the opening of an account. Mr O asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr O that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
security procedures should be and how the business should verify his identification. This is a 
commercial decision for Paysafe to decide how they meet any regulatory and legal 
obligations with regards to verification of their customers. It would be the role of the regulator 
 the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Paysafe to make changes 
to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr O has said about the terms and conditions do not state that he has 
to send the identification in the way Paysafe have asked him to. And he is right, they do not. 
But Paysafe arent required to list every scenario for every security procedure they have in 
the terms and conditions. But I have listed the relevant sections of the terms and conditions 
below - 16.4 and 16.4.7:
16.4 Notwithstanding the above, we may, at our discretion, suspend or limit access to your 
Account (including without limitation, placing a hold on funds in your Account, limiting your 
ability to make Transactions on your Account, suspending or terminating your Card, and 
limiting your payment options) remove you from and/or not allow you to participate in any or 
all of our benefit schemes (including, without limitation, our reward scheme and our 
promotions) or close your Account, at any time, without notice, in any of the following 
circumstances.
16.4.7 you refuse to cooperate in an investigation or to provide adequate identity or security 
information or documentary evidence for verification when requested.
So here, Paysafe has asked Mr O for documentary evidence, and he has not cooperated by 
providing the requested evidence. So as per their discretion (shown in 16.4 of the terms), 
they have placed a hold on his account. Im satisfied that Paysafe were entitled to do this 
based on the agreement Mr O entered into with them. Im not persuaded that just because 
Mr O provided them documents when he opened the account years ago that this negates 
Paysafes responsibilities to know their customer, and if they deem it necessary  which they 
do here  to ask for further documentation to satisfy their security procedures. 
Ive also considered that section 16.1 of the terms state the following 16.1 You have the 
right to close your Account and thereby terminate your agreement with us it continues to 
say If your Account holds a balance at the time of closure, we will ask you to withdraw your 
funds within a reasonable period of time, during which your Account will be accessible for 
the purpose of withdrawing the remaining balance only. Mr O says he has asked Paysafe to 
close his account several times, but they wont release the funds to him. But section 16.7 of 
the terms state 16.7 If there is a positive balance in your Account at the time your Account 
is closed for any reason, these will be returned to you by the method you instruct (less the 
normal applicable Fees) provided the funds are not subject to any restriction.
So as the funds are subject to a restriction, this is why Paysafe are unable to close Mr Os 
account and release the funds to him. They explained to him in their final response letter that 
they were not in a position to refund the available balance back to source. This was because 
the full deposited amount from his card was not available anymore and they couldnt insert 
partial card refunds. So in order to approve a refund of his balance, they need to receive a 
holding identification image, together with a separate photograph of his identification and 
recently issued bank statement. 
So Mr O would need to take the actions that Paysafe has asked him to take in order for them 
to close the account and release the funds to him. But it follows I dont require Paysafe to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman