DRN-3434398
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly declined 
her credit card application. 
What happened
Mrs Y has an existing credit card with Tesco Bank. In October 2020 Mrs Y applied for 
another credit card with Tesco Bank but it declined to proceed. Tesco Bank says the 
application didnt meet its lending criteria so couldnt proceed. 
Mrs Y complained and pointed out she had good credit as well as being an existing credit 
card holder. Tesco Bank didnt uphold Mrs Ys complaint and didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly by declining her application. Tesco Bank said Mrs Y could reapply after six months 
but shes told us it hasnt been possible. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ys complaint but thought Tesco Bank had dealt 
with it fairly as didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs Y asked to appeal and said she doesnt 
think she poses a risk to Tesco Bank and that she had been prevented from reapplying due 
to problems with the relevant app. As Mrs Y has asked to appeal, her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs Y is very concerned that Tesco Bank declined her application without 
specifically saying why. Mrs Y is quite reasonably concerned that Tesco Bank has found 
something on her credit file that led to the decision to decline her application and has asked 
for a better understanding behind its decision. Tesco Bank, in turn, says its lending criteria is 
commercially sensitive so it wont share the specific reasons behind its decision. But Tesco 
Bank has explained it takes a range of information into account when assessing an 
application, including the information found on a consumers credit file along with what it 
knows about the applicant. 
Mrs Y has told us theres nothing on her credit file that she feels would cause Tesco Bank 
concern. I dont doubt what Mrs Y has said, but Tesco Bank has confirmed thats not the 
only thing it considers. Whilst not specific to Mrs Ys case, lenders can also consider 
information like income, outgoings, overall levels of debt and information it holds about an 
applicant when deciding whether to proceed. Ive given that list to serve as an example, but 
theres a range of checks a lender can complete before deciding whether to approve an 
application. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs Y but Im satisfied Tesco Bank considered the full 
details of her application and fairly declined it. I appreciate my response doesnt contain the 
level of detail Mrs Y mayve hoped for, but I want to assure her that as an impartial third 
party, I havent seen anything that shows Tesco Bank made errors or treated her unfairly. 
Mrs Y has told us shes been unable to reapply for the credit card due to problems with 
Tesco Bank. I can see our investigator has sought to try and find out why the application 
hasnt been made. Tesco Bank says its an issue with a third party app thats causing the 
problem and Mrs Y has confirmed shes still unable to reapply. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service cant normally consider a complaint unless the business has been given the 
opportunity to resolve the issue first. 
The application issues Mrs Y has experienced werent covered by Tesco Banks final 
response dated 6 January 2021. I understand Tesco Bank has provided information via our 
investigator concerning how Mrs Y can reapply. But, as far as I can see, it hasnt been asked 
to investigate a complaint about this specific issue which means our service cant consider it 
as part of this case. Should the reapplication problems remain, Mrs Y has the option of 
raising a complaint with Tesco Bank and referring the matter to us if it remains unresolved. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs Y as I can see the issue has being ongoing for a long time. But I 
havent found anything that shows Tesco Bank treated her unfairly when it declined her 
application without giving a specific reason. Im satisfied that Tesco Bank has provided 
details of the sorts of information it considers when looking at an application and that its 
dealt with Mrs Ys complaint fairly. As a result, Im not telling Tesco Bank to take further 
action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman