DRN-4026447
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the interest rate on her mortgage, now owned by 
Landmark Mortgages Limited. She says she was trapped with her lender and made to pay
high interest rates.
What happened
Mrs F took out a mortgage with Northern Rock. She took a fixed rate which she was happy 
with at the time.
But then the financial crash happened and Northern Rock collapsed. It stopped offering new
interest rates to its borrowers. Northern Rock was nationalised and Mrs Fs mortgage was 
transferred to its successor company NRAM, then on to Landmark in 2016. As the most 
recent owner of the mortgage Landmark is responsible for this complaint.
Mrs F says that was overcharged interest on her mortgage and she was trapped and unable 
to move her mortgage elsewhere because of her high loan to value and the changed 
mortgage market. She considered herself to be a mortgage prisoner. Mrs F has told our 
service that she has since sold her property and redeemed her mortgage with Landmark. 
Landmark said that Mrs Fs mortgage had operated in line with its terms and conditions, so 
Mrs F had not been treated unfairly.  
Unhappy with Landmarks response, Mrs F brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mrs F 
asked for it to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required to take into account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when 
reaching my decision. 
Both parties have accepted that we can only consider the interest charged to the mortgage
from January 2015 onwards  anything before this date is out of time under our rules.
In 2015 the mortgage was with NRAM and was on a discount rate just below NRAMs
standard variable rate (SVR).
The mortgage offer for the five-year fixed rate Mrs F took in 2006 said that after the end of 
the fixed rate it would revert to the discount rate, and this happened in 2011. Nothing in the 
mortgage offer, or the terms and conditions  or in mortgage regulation  says that 
Northern Rock had to offer Mrs F a new fixed rate once her old one finished.
Because of Northern Rocks collapse and its nationalisation, NRAM was a closed book
lender unable to offer new interest rates to any of its customers. So, all its other customers
were in the same position as Mrs F  and she was not treated any less fairly than any other 
customer.
After the mortgage moved to Landmark, it continued on the discount rate. Landmark doesnt
offer new rates to any customers either, and again theres no obligation on it to do so. 
The mortgage Terms and Conditions set out that when the fixed rate expired in 2011, the 
mortgage would revert to Northern Rocks discount rate below its SVR, and that the SVR 
could go up as well as down. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that 
Northern Rock, or subsequently NRAM or Landmark were obligated, contractually or 
otherwise, to have its SVR track the Bank of England base rate. Theres also nothing in the 
Terms and Conditions that entitled Mrs F to a new interest rate. To that extent, the mortgage 
has operated as it should.
So to conclude, I am not persuaded that NRAM or Landmark have operated the terms in an 
unfair manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mrs Fs mortgage. I 
dont think there is any basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mrs F being charged 
an unfairly high rate of interest on her mortgage during the period I can consider, and Ive 
seen no evidence to say that the interest she was charged during that period was unfair for 
any other reason.
I do understand why Mrs F wanted to have paid lower rates than she did. But, as Ive said, 
her lenders werent obliged to offer new rates. Neither lender stood in the way of her moving 
her mortgage to another lender to take a lower rate  after 2011, there was no early 
repayment charge, for example. I understand that was in practice not possible for Mrs F due 
to her loan to value  but that wasnt because of anything NRAM or Landmark had done.
And while the NRAM and Landmark SVR (less, in this case, the discount) was higher than
the introductory rates offered by other lenders, it was comparable to the SVR and reversion
rates offered by other lenders. So I dont think Mrs F was treated unfairly because of the 
level of the reversionary rate she was asked to pay.
I do understand Mrs F was in a difficult position and would have preferred her payments to 
be lower. And I sympathise with that. But I cant find that Landmark or its predecessors 
treated her unfairly, and I cant therefore uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman