DRN-3052455
The complaint
 Mr F complains about the settlement offer Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) offered him on agreeing rejection of the car due to faults. 
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
MBFS agreed to put Mr F back in the position he would have been prior to getting the 
faulty car. As the car was a replacement for a prior faulty car its fair to put Mr F back 
in the position he would have been prior to getting the first car not the second one. 
So as Mr F has evidenced deposits of £1500 and £800 plus a part exchange 
payment of £1,267.24 I think it is reasonable that MFBS refund these payments with 
8% simple interest from the date of payment of the date of settlement.
MBFS has offered to refund 20% of the monthly payments Mr F made from June 
2020 until the date of settlement. I think this is reasonable. I appreciate the courtesy 
cars provided arent like for like cars, and Mr F was still paying for his car which he 
hasnt had use of, but I think the 20% refund reflects this. I dont feel Mr F has given 
me any reason as to why this should be increased to a 40% refund as he would like.
MBS has also offered to pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Mr F feels £1,000 is more appropriate. I dont agree. Its unfortunate Mr F 
experienced problems with two cars. I dont doubt that caused some distress and 
inconvenience. But he has been kept mobile during this time. And I feel the £250 
offered along with the refund of monthly payments detailed above is appropriate.
Finally, Mr F says if he were to be put back in the position, he was originally in he 
would be £2300 better off but he hasnt evidenced this. As a result, Mr F would like 
an additional payment of the difference between the outstanding balance on the 
finance agreement and the current trade in value of the car which he believes is 
£5459. I dont feel there are any grounds for this. Its not a sum we would usually 
expect a business to cover on rejection. And Mr F hasnt given me any reason to feel 
an award of this type is appropriate here.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should :-
Refund 20% of all monthly instalments paid from June 2020 until date of settlement
Refund the cash deposits paid under the agreement for KP17 TGK which totalled 
£1500
Refund the part exchange allowance paid under the agreement for KP17 TGK which 
totaled £1,267.24
Refund the £800 deposit amount paid under the agreement for GY17 VEH
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused
Show the agreement as settled on Mr Fs credit file ensuring there is Remove any 
adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman