complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs W say Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them the PPI. The 
PPI provided cover for Mr and Mrs W. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Mr and Mrs W have raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the 
evidence on the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. For example Mr and Mrs W were eligible for the policy. And Mr 
and Mrs W were not affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. 
And they seem to have had a need for the cover. Mrs W told us she was entitled to 48 
weeks of sick pay. Ive noted that this differs from the information that is recorded for her on 
the mortgage application form. That records Mrs W as having 26 weeks full pay in the event 
of long term sickness. Mr and Mrs W told us that Mr W had little sick pay he could have 
relied on. And Mr and Mrs W told us they had limited other means they could have relied on 
such that they might have had to sell Mr Ws part in a family run business to help them make 
their mortgage repayments. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay that Mr and Mrs W told us about, and would 
have reduced their reliance on whatever help their family may have been in a position to 
offer them at such a time and helped them avoid having to sell Mr Ws share of the 
DRN-1901226business. And the policy could have been very helpful if they lost a job, and associated 
benefits. So, thinking about all of this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting 
on a loan secured on your home, I think Mr and Mrs W could have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs W, Yorkshire also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Yorkshire gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or 
better information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. So, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result of anything Yorkshire may have done 
wrong.
I know Mr and Mrs W feel strongly and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed by the outcome. I know that Mr and Mrs W will also feel disappointed 
because they think that this outcome is not one suggested by a previous decision issued by 
this service. The decisions of ombudsmen are made on the individual circumstances of that 
particular case and do not act as a precedent which fetters the judgment of ombudsmen in 
other or subsequent cases. I have not looked closely at the case that led to the decision that 
Mr and Mrs W have referred me to, because I dont think that I need to in order to reach a 
decision in this case. Each case is considered on its own particular circumstances. So, I 
have looked at the events of this sale to make my decision. 
Yorkshire had to get the consent of Mr and Mrs W to the PPI. In this case Mr and Mrs W 
have said they agreed to the PPI cover. And Ive seen a copy of the completed application 
form they signed to get it. 
I have considered the issue of optionality. Mr and Mrs W recalled taking the PPI but they told 
us they only did so because they were told to. Their later testimony was that they took the 
policy because the documentation was ambiguous and led them to think they had to have 
some PPI with the mortgage, so they decided to take it with Yorkshire. Yorkshire told us that 
the PPI would have been presented to Mr and Mrs W as an option they could take or not. 
Mr and Mrs W have made much of what they consider is a lack of clarity about whether they 
needed to take some kind of PPI with their mortgage. But I think thats too narrow an 
interpretation of the issue of optionality. In considering this matter I have looked at whether 
Yorkshire led Mr and Mrs W into thinking that they had to take PPI with Yorkshire in order to 
get the mortgage with Yorkshire. 
The mortgage application form says,
You must consider how you would pay your mortgage if you became unemployed, sick or 
had an accident, and therefore could not work. The Society offers a flexible Mortgage 
Payment insurance package to meet your requirements- please refer to the Insurance 
Services booklet. Please confirm your requirements and a member of staff will contact you 
to establish your needs.
Yes      I/We would like more information on the Yorkshire Building Societys policy
No       I/We am/are making my/own arrangements for this insurance and agree to meet the 
Societys requirements.   On balance, I think this makes it sufficiently clear that Mr and Mrs W did not need to get PPI 
with Yorkshire, so I think that they should have understood this was something they could 
say No  to. 
The language in the above passage is about what the Society offers not what it demands 
the consumer comply with. The mortgage offer makes no reference to Mr and Mrs W 
needing to have PPI as a condition of the lending. And it uses the language of choice. It 
explained that Mr and Mrs W, 
have chosen to take out mortgage payment insurance to cover a monthly amount of £800.
And the premium was free for the first six months, which would be unusual had the cover 
been a conditional extra.  
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and having thought about all 
the above, I think its more likely that Yorkshire wouldve made Mr and Mrs W aware that the 
PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember that 
now, many years later. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman