DRN-4425651
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about a claim they made on their Amtrust Europe Limited 
(Amtrust) landlord legal expenses insurance policy, which Amtrust declined to cover.
Mr and Mrs T say that Amtrust treated them unfairly.
In this decision, all references to Amtrust include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T made a claim on their Amtrust landlords legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to deal with problems with their tenant. 
Amtrust asked Mr and Mrs T for further information about their claim, including all of the 
documents relevant to the problems they were having with their tenant. Following this Mrs T 
called Amtrust directly to discuss the claim. During the course of that conversation, Mrs T 
told Amtrust that she hadnt taken a deposit from her tenant and hadnt obtained a reference 
either.
Amtrust considered this and concluded that Mr and Mrs Ts claim wasnt one that they could 
cover under the policy because it was a requirement that both a deposit be taken, and a 
reference obtained in advance of the tenancy. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator considered their complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld because Mr and 
Mrs T hadnt complied with the conditions of the policy. Mr and Mrs T dont agree so the 
matter has been referred to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
What is not covered
There is no cover for claims:
9 Where you have allowed the tenant into possession of the insured property before
the tenancy agreement had been signed by all parties, a tenant reference has been 
obtained, the first months rent and the deposit have been received in cash or cleared funds 
and the dilapidations inventory has been signed by the tenant.
In this case theres no dispute over the fact that Mr and Mrs T didnt obtain a reference for 
their tenant or take a deposit. Instead, they say that this term was never made clear to them 
when they took the policy out or when they subsequently renewed it, so they didnt know 
they had to do this to benefit from the insurance. They have said they want the policy 
premiums returned to them as a result. 
As the investigator explained, Amtrust didnt sell Mr and Mrs T the policy so theyre not 
responsible for the information given to them about it. Amtrust are the insurer so the cover 
theyve offered is subject to the policys terms and conditions and in this case, the policy 
conditions havent been met in relation to both a reference and a deposit being taken. 
Because of this I cant say that Amtrust needed to cover Mr and Mrs Ts claim. I dont think 
thats unfair given those terms are in place to mitigate the risk to Amtrust. And Amtrust are 
entitled to decide the risks they are and arent prepared to take on. In this case, they were 
clear about those within their policy terms. In the absence of Mr and Mrs T complying with 
the policy requirements, I cant say Amtrust need to do any more.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T have incurred their own legal costs due to the absence of 
cover, but I cant say that Amtrust are responsible for this. Amtrust did offer Mr and Mrs T the 
benefit of the legal helpline if they wanted to pursue the matter themselves. I understand that 
the legal helpline couldnt help Mr and Mrs T because they only deal with enquiries by 
tenants rather than landlords. Mr and Mrs T say they were referred to the Citizens Advice 
Bureau instead. I know that this would no doubt have been frustrating for them but for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Amtrust needed to cover this claim so they werent 
obliged to offer Mr and Mrs T with an alternative legal service in the absence of cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman