DRN-3926429
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) hasnt settled her claim 
for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs B had buildings and contents insurance with LBG. During a storm, several tiles came off 
her roof. She sent a claim to LBG using its online service. 
LBG sent an email in response telling Mrs B to go ahead with repairs up to £2,000. She 
called to check the information was correct and LBG confirmed it was. LBG had put in place 
a quick response process during the period of high claims due to storms. The limit for claims 
without the need for a quote first was £2,000.
Mrs B got a quote for repairs and sent it along with photos of the damage to LBG. A few 
days later, LBG said Mrs Bs claim wasnt covered. She complained, so LBG arranged an 
inspection of the roof. The expert report said the damage was mainly due to existing wear 
and tear. LBG told Mrs B again it had declined her claim.
Mrs B complained to LBG because she understood it would pay £2,000. LBG agreed it had 
given her incorrect information and offered £100 by way of apology. Mrs B remained 
unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mrs B hadnt experienced any financial 
detriment because of LBGs actions, and he thought its offer of £100 was fair and 
reasonable in recognition of the service shortfall.
Mrs B didnt agree. She repeated her complaint that LBG told her she could have work done 
up to the value of £2,000, and she asked for confirmation that this service had received and 
listened to the call in which LBG confirmed that. Mrs B thought LBG should accept her claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
The facts are not in dispute here. In summary, its agreed there was a storm during which 
tiles came off Mrs Bs roof, and that LBG gave incorrect advice about the £2,000 limit. So, Ill 
focus on explaining what evidence Ive relied on, and why, to reach my decision.
Pre-authorised claim amount
LBG provided Mrs B with both general information intended for all policyholders and 
personalised information. LBG provided the information to enable its policyholders to make 
immediate repairs during a period of storms. Mrs B received:
an email from LBG telling her she could go ahead with work up to £2,000;
confirmation of the payment in LBGs recorded message for incoming calls, and
direct confirmation during a call to LBG that the information in the email was correct.
Based on this evidence alone, I can see why Mrs B was upset that LBG refused to pay her 
claim.
Some of the messages explained that the payment would be on receipt of a valid claim 
under the terms of the policy. But LBG didnt explain that to Mrs B when she called.
If LBG had accepted Mrs Bs claim, its failure to explain that wouldnt have really mattered. 
But, here, LBG declined her claim. Therefore, Im satisfied LBGs service fell short of what 
Mrs B couldve reasonably expected.
The issue now is whether that service shortfall caused Mrs B any financial loss. To 
determine that, Ive looked at whether LBG fairly declined the claim in line with the policy. 
And if it did, whether Mrs B incurred any financial loss which she wouldnt have done if LBG 
had given correct advice during her call.
Claim outcome
For clarity, I dont think theres any dispute that the tiles came off the roof during the storm. 
The issue is whether they wouldve come off if the roof had been in a good state of repair. 
The evidence Ive relied on to inform my decision is as follows:
photos show multiple areas of damage across the whole roof which arent consistent 
with a one-off storm event, such as individual loose tiles and missing mortar.
LBG provided images of the roof before the storm, taken from online resources, 
evidencing that some of the damage was pre-existing, albeit less than seen in the 
post-storm photos.
LBGs expert report concluded that the damage was due mainly to wear and tear. I 
havent seen anything to contradict this.
Mrs B also got a quote for replacing the full roof, indicating that she was aware it was 
in need of more widespread repair.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that LBG fairly declined Mrs Bs claim. Thats 
because the policy doesnt cover damage caused gradually  that is, wear and tear  and it 
requires Mrs B to maintain her property.Financial loss
As Ive decided LBG fairly declined the claim, Ive thought carefully about whether its 
incorrect information about the pre-authorised claim amount caused Mrs B any financial loss. 
I cant see that it has because:
LBGs incorrect information didnt affect the cost of the repairs.
Its incorrect information didnt affect the outcome of her claim.
Mrs B wouldve needed to have her roof repaired anyway.
In summary, if LBG had simply handled the claim without offering any information about a 
pre-authorised sum, Mrs Bs claim wouldve been declined, and shed have incurred the cost 
of roof repairs. So LBGs actions didnt cause Mrs B any financial loss.
Im satisfied that LBGs offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in recognition of the 
disappointment it mustve caused Mrs B by saying shed have her claim covered up to 
£2,000 which she took to mean it was guaranteed. I see no reason to ask LBG to do any 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman