DRN-2620681
The complaint
Ms H is a sole trader. She complains that she was unable to apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
with HSBC Bank UK Plc, despite being an existing customer.
What happened
Ms H was looking to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme from HSBC in 
June 2020.
Ms H holds a personal current account and savings account with HSBC, but was told that 
shed need to open either a business current account or a feeder account in order to apply 
for a Bounce Back Loan. So Ms H applied for a feeder account. This type of account is used 
solely to draw down and transfer onward any funds borrowed under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme.
HSBC declined Ms Hs application as it didnt meet the banks credit-scoring requirements. 
Ms H complained, but the bank didnt change its position. It said that the application had 
been processed in accordance with its account opening criteria, and declined in line with its 
policy.
Ms H then asked us to look into things. She said shed been paying all her earnings into her 
HSBC savings account, so the bank could see what shed been earning and her eligibility for 
a loan under the Scheme. And she didnt think it was fair for HSBC to have declined her 
feeder account application on the basis of her credit score, when the account was only going 
to be used to draw down a Bounce Back Loan  and as applications for the loan itself 
werent subject to credit checks.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Hs complaint but didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. In summary, she said:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would accept applications for Bounce Back 
Loans, including from existing customers. This included the freedom to require 
applicants to enter into a business relationship. While the bank didnt require this for 
all existing customers, it was necessary for those who werent running their business 
through a current account.
It was reasonable for HSBC to require Ms H to open a new account, as she wasnt 
running her business through her current account  and the bank couldnt complete 
the necessary anti-money laundering, fraud and Know Your Customer checks on the 
savings account.
In considering Ms Hs application for the new account, HSBC was entitled to assess 
the request against its own criteria  which included credit-scoring. And it had 
explained the checks it would make within the account application form. 
HSBC had fairly assessed Ms Hs application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria. And those criteria hadnt been adjusted in 
light of the pandemic. 
Ms H didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have some discretion under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme to decide how they will 
accept applications, both from new and existing customers. While its not a requirement of 
the Scheme that applicants have a business relationship, lenders are entitled to require one.
HSBC accepts applications from existing customers where theyre running their business 
through an existing personal account and on the provision of a copy of their 2018/19 self-
assessment tax return. This is in line with expectations of lenders under the Scheme rules. 
These measures allow the bank to complete the necessary anti-money laundering, anti-fraud 
and Know Your Customer checks expected of it, both under the Scheme and in line with its 
broader obligations. 
Ms H didnt meet these criteria. She paid her earnings to a savings account, rather than 
running all business activity through her current account. And as she started trading in June 
2019, she doesnt have a tax return as required either. So I can see how HSBC was unable 
to complete the required checks. It follows that I think it was reasonable for the bank to 
require Ms H to enter into a business relationship so that it could do so.
Ive checked that HSBC hasnt increased its criteria when considering applications for an 
account compared with its practice previously. And Ive confirmed that it assessed Ms Hs 
application against those criteria. So I think it treated Ms H fairly. And, as Ive seen from 
HSBCs internal records that Ms Hs application didnt meet those criteria, I dont think the 
bank did anything wrong in declining to offer her an account.
HSBCs criteria include certain credit score requirements. Ms H doesnt think its fair for the 
bank to have applied those in the circumstances here, and I appreciate where shes coming 
from. She is right to say that lenders arent expected to decline applications for the Bounce 
Back Loan itself on the basis of credit-related concerns  and the purpose of the feeder 
account was to draw down the loan funds.
The feeder account, though, is a separate product to the loan and is therefore legitimately 
subject to different rules and requirements. As Ive set out above, HSBC had the discretion 
to decide the basis on which it would accept applications  and so it could decide the 
eligibility criteria for the accounts it was willing to offer, including its credit-scoring 
requirements.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Ms H as I know she finds herself in a difficult and frustrating 
position, taking all of the above into account I dont think HSBC handled her application 
unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman