DRN-4118558
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined their 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. In 2019, they travelled 
abroad and stayed there until 2022. 
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs E called Aviva to find out if they had cover to travel home as 
they had been forced to stay abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions in 
the country they were in. They were considering flying back with a different airline to the one 
they had originally booked and say they were assured they had Covid-19 cover for flights 
home. So they made a claim for additional flight costs. 
Aviva declined the claim and said there was no cover under the policy as the trip had lasted 
more than 31 days and Mr and Mrs E hadnt bought trip extension cover. So it declined the 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs E complained and referred their complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong as 
it had correctly applied the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm the trip limit:
You are covered for any trip beginning and ending in the UK that lasts no more than 
31 days; please make sure that this trip duration is adequate for your needs before 
you travel. There is no cover at all for any trip that is longer than 31 days and we will 
not insure any part of any trip that is longer than 31 days unless you have purchased 
an appropriate trip extension upgrade before you leave home to begin your trip.
Mr and Mrs E didnt purchase a trip extension upgrade and so there is no cover for their trip 
as it lasted longer than 31 days.
Mr and Mrs E say they were assured on the telephone that they did have cover. I have 
listened to the telephone call from February 2022 and Im satisfied Mr and Mrs E were given 
correct information. In summary, the following was discussed:
The airlines needed confirmation that Mr and Mrs E had a travel insurance policy in 
place. It was confirmed that they did have a policy in place.
They asked if they would be covered. The business confirmed they couldnt confirm 
whether a claim would be paid as it would need to be assessed and verified. It would 
depend on the circumstances. 
In relation to the flights, the agent confirmed that the airline would usually re-book.
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances were not discussed in detail so the agent was not 
aware that the original trip was longer than 31 days to begin with. 
No guarantees were given that Mr and Mrs Es claim for additional flight costs would 
be covered.
Mr and Mrs Es trip was intended to last longer than 31 days before the Covid-19 pandemic 
resulted in travel restrictions. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs E but as they booked a trip 
which lasted longer than 31 days, their circumstances arent covered under the policy terms. 
So I dont think Aviva unfairly declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman