DRN-1607019
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs M took out in 2002. It 
was sold in store and covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for this complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didn't agree. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
AXA has failed to provide the policy document. And Mrs M didn't receive this, or any 
other information about the PPI.
Mrs M felt she had to have the insurance - she wasn't given time to think about it, she 
wasn't told it was optional, and she thought she had to have the PPI to get the store 
card.
She wasn't aware the policy was expensive, or that other policies were available if 
she'd wanted this type of cover.
Mrs M wasn't given enough information to make an informed decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs Ms case.
 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA hasn't been able to supply a copy of the policy document relating to this PPI policy. But 
that's not unreasonable or unsurprising bearing in mind how long ago this happened. And I 
can't be sure exactly what was discussed or what information Mrs M received. So I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
 
AXA had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before addingPPI. Mrs M says she didn't realise it was optional and thought she had to have it to get the 
store card.  The store card application form included a separate section headed Protecting 
your Account" and the instruction, "only sign the box if you require Account Cover". Mrs M 
signed, separately from the main application to confirm that she wanted it. I cant say what 
was discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork made it 
clear that PPI was optional and I think it would have been reasonable to expect Mrs M to 
check over the document she was signing. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I 
think Mrs M would have still been able to do this even though the card and PPI were taken 
out in a store. So, overall, I think AXA made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and she 
chose to take it. I'm not surprised she can't remember this as it happened so long ago.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her.
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could 
have benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information 
about these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time.
I've taken into account what Mrs M's representative says about the cost of the policy and 
that Mrs M wasn't made aware that she could protect her repayments by buying insurance 
elsewhere. I don't find there was an obligation on AXA to tell Mrs M about products available 
elsewhere. And I agree with our adjudicator - although the policy may have been more 
expensive than some other PPI policies, it would have paid 15% of Mrs M's card balance 
each month if she'd made a successful claim, which was more generous than some other 
PPI policies. And it would have done this until the outstanding balance had been repaid. So I 
think Mrs M could have found the policy useful.
Overall, I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done 
wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman