DRN-3650654
The complaint
Mrs J complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined her 
claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs J has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by LV. 
Mrs J reported to LV that her roof had been damage because of a storm which 
happened on 27 November 2021. She said the storm had blown off roof tiles which 
allowed water to get inside her property and cause internal damage to the bathroom, 
landing and bedroom.
LV considered the claim. While it agreed there had been a storm, it said the damage 
to Mrs Js home wasnt because of it. 
LV referred to photographs which it said showed the same damage to Mrs Js roof 
was apparent in 2009. It said the rain levels didnt meet the storm criteria and that the 
internal damage appeared to be historic. It concluded the damage was due to wear 
and tear and a lack of maintenance. 
As gradually operating causes arent covered under the policy, LV said it wouldnt 
cover Mrs Js claim. It did, however, offer £100 compensation to recognise that its 
handling of the claim could have been better. Mrs J declined the offer.  
Mrs J brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it but thought 
LV had decided the claim fairly. 
Mrs J remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that a storm occurred on or around the time the damage was said 
to have happened. And whilst the damage  namely, roof tiles being blown off and an 
ingress of water causing internal damage  could be caused by a storm, LV has said 
the storm wasnt the main cause of damage. And its on this point I must make a 
finding. 
The starting point is the policy which says, you or anyone in charge of the property 
must take care to maintain your property in good condition []. It also says LV will 
not pay for any claim arising from anything which happens gradually including 
deterioration or wear and tear []. 
So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear theres an expectation on the consumer to 
maintain their property, and that claims for wear and tear will not be covered.
Photographs from 2009 show hip tiles were missing from the entire front edge of Mrs 
Js roof. Its these tiles which Mrs J says were blown off by the storm in 2021. 
Mrs J has provided evidence which she says shows repairs were carried out to the 
roof in 2010, and so its unfair for LV to say the damage was due to a lack of 
maintenance.
Ive looked at schedule of works from 2010 and it appears the bulk of the repairs 
were to the chimney stack. There is no mention of replacing the hip tiles. So, in the 
absence of evidence which shows the hip tiles were replaced at this time, Im not 
persuaded the schedule of works supports Mrs Js position. 
LVs surveyor said the damage to bathroom would have likely been prevented had 
the hip tiles been in place. I note the beam in the bathroom was shown to have rotted 
 the existence of rot suggests water ingress had been happening over some time, 
and not just from a one of event. 
This, coupled with the photographic evidence which shows the hip tiles were missing 
in 2009, persuades me that the damage most likely pre-existed the storm and had 
occurred because of wear and tear and a lack of maintenance. 
I understand Mrs J is frustrated and feels shes been paying for a policy which isnt fit 
for purpose, but insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality. Here, 
there isnt an insured peril (i.e. damage caused by a storm) and so, it wouldnt be fair 
to ask LV to cover the claim. 
Excluding damage which is caused by a gradually operating cause or wear and tear 
is a common term in insurance policies and would be found in other policies with 
different insurers. I know Mrs J will be disappointed, but Im satisfied LV has declined 
her claim fairly.
Having reviewed how the claim was handled, Im satisfied £100 compensation is 
reasonable and so I wont be asking it to increase it.
Im aware Mrs J doesnt have accidental damage with her policy and so she doesnt 
have cover under that section.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs J £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman