DRN-4149730
The complaint
Mr R complains Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) disinvested his policy from a 
With-Profits and Consensus fund and reinvested the With-Profits proceeds into a Cash fund 
on a new platform without his consent. He says he has suffered a loss of investment growth 
because the cash fund was unsuitable for him.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr R held a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP) with Scottish Widows as a member of his 
employers pension scheme.
In October 2016, Scottish Widows were in the process of moving to a new technology 
platform. In order to obtain the information required to complete a bulk transfer, Scottish 
Widows Corporate Relationship Manager (RM) was in correspondence with Mr Rs 
employers Financial Adviser (FA).
On 26 October 2016, the RM requested by email confirmation from the FA that those 
members in with-profits and closed funds had agreed suitable alternatives, otherwise their 
existing funds would not be moved across as part of the bulk exercise.
By 23 January 2017, the RM hadnt received that information so emailed the FA again to 
request it as they were starting the process of moving platforms.
On 24 January 2017, Mr R received an email from his employer, which had been sent to all 
members of the GPP to inform them that it would be moving the scheme to a new digital 
platform. The email confirmed it was for information only and that no action was required. It 
also said the existing funds would be available on the new platform so no-one would be 
disadvantaged, and the change would happen automatically.
In February 2017, the SW team working on the migration encountered a problem. The 
administrator confirmed in an internal email he had wrongly thought With- Profits 
investments could continue on the new platform, but now knew that not to be possible.
On 7 February 2017, he requested the RM obtain investment instructions for those clients 
from the FA. The RM replied with an instruction that in the interim and to avoid any further 
delay can you replace the closed funds/with profits with cash. The RM confirmed he would 
write to the adviser and request alternatives.
Mr R received his 2018 annual statement, this showed his plan transferred to Scottish 
Widows new administrative platform on 22 February 2017. The statement confirmed a 
transfer of £119,969.37 had been received in respect of that transfer. By the time the annual 
statement was produced in January 2018 the plan had a transfer value of around £130,000.
The statement said approximately £74,000 of his funds were invested within the 
Consensus fund and the remainder, totaling around £56,000 was held in a cash fund. It 
also confirmed the ongoing investment instruction applying to his monthly contributions was 
a 50/50 split of each contribution between the Cash and Consensus funds.
Mr R complained to Scottish Widows via his employer about the switch as he had not been 
consulted about it or provided consent to it.
On 4 August 2021, Scottish Widows wrote to his employer with their final response to the 
complaint. They didnt uphold his complaint and said he had been made aware of the fund 
switch by his Financial Adviser.
On 12 August 2021, Scottish Widows issued another final response directly to Mr R after he 
pointed out some inaccuracies in the previous letter.  It accepted it had quoted the wrong 
transfer date and referred to the FA as Mr Rs adviser rather than his employers adviser. It 
offered to issue a cheque for £50 by way of an apology.
On 2 February 2022, Mr R brought his complaint to this service for consideration with the 
assistance of his employers new FA and provided authority for them to be included in 
correspondence about his complaint.
An investigator looked into matters for Mr R, after reviewing all the information, she 
concluded Scottish Widows disinvested and reinvested Mr Rs plan without confirming if he 
had agreed to that action, that changed investment instruction was also applied to his 
ongoing contributions. She found that Scottish Widows had treated Mr R unfairly and upheld 
his complaint.
Scottish Widows disagreed. In summary it said:
the migration to the new platform was a bulk transfer and individual consent was not 
required
the welcome pack issued after migration provided details of the transfer and funds 
requested so Mr R was able to amend his choices from inception if he so wished.
The investigator looked at the comments made by Scottish Widows, but this didnt change 
her view. She said that whilst she accepted Mr Rs individual consent was not required there 
was a clear outstanding request from the FA that " until those members in with profits and 
closed funds had agreed suitable alternatives, their existing funds would not be moved 
across as part of the bulk exercise". This remained an outstanding request when Scottish 
Widows took the decision to carry out the bulk transfer and as such Mr R had been treated 
unfairly.
Scottish Widows went on to raise a number of concerns about how the redress would be 
calculated if the complaint was upheld. It said it would expect the redress comparison to be 
based on funds offered by Scottish Widows and capped at an appropriate date.
As Scottish Widows didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional findings I reached the same outcome as our investigator, but Id reached a 
different way of calculating redress. I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties the 
opportunity to make any further submissions they wish me to consider before I made my 
final decision.
Having looked at the evidence available I could see there was a complex chain of 
information between the parties. There were misunderstandings about which funds would 
and wouldnt be available and then further requests for clarification which were not acted 
upon prior to the bulk transfer of the group personal pension plans. So, to review all the evidence it was necessary to look at the correspondence between Scottish Widows and Mr 
Rs employer and the internal communication between the FA and the employer. 
The employers financial adviser was engaged to undertake the bulk transfer of the scheme 
with Scottish Widows. So, the employer was corporate client, not Mr R. The FA confirmed to 
this service that they did not have any information about Mr R because there was no client 
agreement. The FA didnt provide any financial advice to Mr R or recommend any alternative 
solution. Scottish Widows were administering the scheme and so they also had no 
responsibility to advice Mr R either.
The FA was required to ensure that they made Mr R aware via his employer of the 
alternatives he would have to consider and then decide upon himself if he wished to remain 
in the With Profits funds and provide that information to Scottish Widows. 
In an email dated 26 October 2016, the FA says, can you confirm you have spoken to all 
those in with-profits and closed funds to check they have agreed suitable alternatives., 
otherwise their existing funds will not be moved across as part of the bulk exercise.
But the email Mr R received on 24 January 2017 from his employer confirmed that funds 
that are available on the current platform will be available on the new platform, so no-one will 
be disadvantaged, All your funds and investments will be transferred automatically. 
I could see no evidence to suggest otherwise.  I said there was no evidence that Mr R 
wanted to change his investment strategy, so on the surface it seemed both Mr R and his 
employer expected the With-Profits find to move as was to the new platform.
But, in another internal email on 7 February 2017, sent by the Scottish Widows 
administrator, to the Scottish Widows Relationship manager working with the FA, it became 
apparent there was a problem with moving the With-Profits investors onto the new 
platform. The administrator said he wrongly thought they would be able to continue to invest 
in that. That meant a decision would need to be taken or the scheme start would be 
delayed.
The administrator asked the RM explicitly for the adviser to establish the investments for the 
new polices. The emails confirmed that the RM would write to the adviser and request 
alternatives. But provided the instruction As discussed in the interim and to avoid and 
further delay can you replace the closed funds/with profits with cash. 
So, the communications showed that Scottish Widows gave a clear instruction to move the 
with-profits funds (that were now not available) into cash. This was an explicit decision to 
move Mr Rs funds into cash without any discussion or agreement from him. That decision 
resulted in a change to his investments and his ongoing contributions. I said I was 
persuaded that in taking that action Scottish Widows treated Mr R unfairly and as such 
should put matter right.
I considered Scottish Widows request that the redress be calculated to the date Mr R was 
sent his first annual statement in September 2018. I looked at the information from Mr R to 
his employers adviser, and it is clear he first noticed the fund change in April 2021. When he 
did so, he took action and switched the funds.  Im persuaded he had no reason to be aware 
that the funds had changed in September 2018, as the last email he received made it clear 
the transfer to the new platform would not disadvantage him in anyway, so it seems he 
discovered the change by accident. Im persuaded by his testimony but equally I think the 
calculation in the first stage should be from the date the funds were disinvested to the date 
Mr R switched his funds which he says was 15 April 2021.Scottish Widows points to the fact the With-Profit fund is closed to new members and it for 
this reason a Benchmark index to calculate whether there has been a loss.
I said from when Mr R switched his funds there are two concerns. If a loss was sustained 
this difference would also have been invested earlier and its not clear whether Mr R would 
have made the same investment decision in 2017 as he did in April 2021 so to compensate 
for this, I intend to direct Scottish Widows to pay Mr R 8% simple interest on the any losses 
calculated from disinvestment to the date of settlement. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further submissions they wished me 
to consider.
Mr R accepted my findings and had no further comment.
Scottish Widows accepted my provisional findings and the D&I payment but asked for the 
redress calculation to be amended. It said the actual date of the funds were switched was 15 
February 2021 and provided a request to switch request to that effect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as that of my earlier provisional 
decision, but I have revisited the redress calculation.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered all the submissions that 
have been made by Mr R and Scottish Widows.
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
Scottish Widows provided further evidence to show Mr R requested a fund switch on 15 
February 2021, rather than April 2021.
The request was made on 15 February, but the actual switch occurred on 17 February 
according to the investment summary. In light of the confirmation of the switch, it seems fair 
and reasonable that the redress be calculated to 17 February 2021.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think its fair to say Mr R would have invested differently. I have considered the specific 
alternatives that were available to him. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would have 
done. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr R' 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Scottish Widows do:
To compensate Mr R fairly Scottish Widows should:
Compare the performance of Mr Rs' investments with that of the benchmark shownbelow.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, there is a gain. Losses and gains should then be combined. If there is an 
overall loss, that is the amount of compensation payable.
Scottish Widows should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Scottish Widows should pay into Mr Rs' pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Your payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. You shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Scottish Widows is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R' pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Rs' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
In addition, you should pay Mr R £300 for the trouble and upset caused by having to 
revise his retirement plans in light of the changes made to his plan without his 
consent.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If you consider that youre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, you should tell Mr R how much 
youve taken off. You should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From
(Start date)To
(end date)Additional 
Interest
With Profits 
transfer 
ValueStill exists 
and liquidFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income 
Total
Return Date of
disinvestment17February 
20218% simple 
interest 
from 17 
February Index 2021 to 
the date 
of 
settlement 
Monthly
contributions
invested
within the
Cash Fund
following the
transferStill exists
And liquidFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income 
Total
Return 
IndexDate of
investment17 
February 
20218% simple 
interest 
from 17 
February 
2021 to 
the date 
of 
settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct 
that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr R circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to 
carry out the redress as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman