DRN-4119361
The complaint
Mrs W complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) has dealt 
with third-party claims made in respect of an insured driver in relation to her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs W says she gave her daughter permission to drive her car. Her 
daughter was involved in an incident whereby she collided with a parked car. 
Mrs W reported the incident to Advantage and let it know that her daughter was driving at 
the time. Advantage explained her daughter wasnt a named driver under the policy and 
because she didnt have an insurance policy elsewhere, she was essentially uninsured for 
any losses arising from the incident. It said this meant that if any third-party claims were 
received, it would lower the lever of cover to Road Traffic Act (RTA), which means Mrs W 
would be liable for any costs Advantage had to pay out to the third party.
A third party made a claim to Advantage  which it accepted and paid. Then later, in January 
2022, Advantage was notified of a second vehicle that had been involved. Advantage said 
that it continuously rejected the claim because it wasnt aware of a second vehicle being 
involved in the incident. Advantage contacted Mrs W in June 2022 to ask about a second 
vehicle, to which Mrs W confirmed there was a second vehicle. 
In October 2022, Mrs W says her daughter received a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
against her for the losses incurred to the second third-party. Advantage paid the amount 
owed under the judgement shortly after. 
Mrs W subsequently made a complaint to Advantage. She explained that it had been a 
genuine oversight that her daughter hadnt been added to the policy. She said she wasnt 
made aware that shed have to cover the third-party losses. She also said that her daughter 
shouldnt have got a CCJ against her  and she blamed Advantage for this for continually 
rejecting the claim, and not asking her any details about it until June 2022. 
Advantage responded to Mrs Ws complaint. It explained that because the driver at the time 
of the incident was uninsured, the costs would fall on it as the last known insurer of the 
vehicle. It explained that it wasnt aware there was a second vehicle involved in the incident, 
and because of this it rejected the third-partys claim  which resulted in a CCJ being 
obtained for Mrs Ws daughter. It also added that when it sent Mrs W a letter letting her know 
the claim had been closed, this was correct at the time. However, it re-opened the claim later 
when it received notification of the second vehicle. Advantage said it had followed its 
process and hadnt done anything wrong.
Unhappy with Advantages response, Mrs W referred her complaint to this service. An 
Investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They said 
that Mrs W was told in a call on 29 September 2021, that the level of cover would be 
dropped to RTA and it would seek reimbursement of any claims from Mrs W. They also 
didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong when the third-party insurer obtained a CCJ 
against Mrs Ws daughter. Ultimately, the Investigator found that Advantage had acted fairly 
when seeking reimbursement of the costs from Mrs W.
Mrs W didnt agree with the Investigator, I have summarised her main points below:
She wasnt aware she would be held responsible for the costs of the claims. She 
reiterated that she believed the car was insured at the time of the incident.
Advantage should have contacted her as soon as the second claim came to light  
instead of continually rejecting the claim. Not doing so has added to the amount she 
is being asked to reimburse Advantage. And led to a CCJ for her daughter.
Mrs W disputes the cost of the claims  she says her car only had minor damage and 
so she cant understand why so much damage had been caused the to third-party 
vehicles. Mrs W says Advantage accepted the claims without cross-examining the 
costs, which is what would normally happen if the insurer was liable to pay.
Because Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, it is my decision not to uphold this 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, however I will 
explain my reasons for this below.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mrs Ws situation. I can see that shes explained 
on a number of occasions that she thought her daughter was insured to drive the car. So I 
can understand that it must have been upsetting for her to find out that she wasnt, which 
has ultimately led to Mrs W being held personally liable to reimburse Advantage for the costs 
of the third-party claims. I can appreciate that the CCJ has likely impacted Mrs Ws 
relationship with her daughter  which Im very sorry to have read. In reaching my 
conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mrs W has now 
found herself in. 
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I can only ask Advantage to put something right, where it has done 
something wrong. In this case, I dont think Advantage has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
and I have explained my reasons for this below. 
The policy terms and conditions state:
Under the General Exceptions section that Youre not covered for any injury, loss, damage 
or liability that takes place while your Car is being Driven by, or in the charge of, someone 
not shown on your Certificate of Motor Insurance.
And 
In all the circumstances listed in general exceptions and general conditions, no cover will be 
provided to you under the Policy. Instead, your Insurers liability will be restricted to meeting 
the obligations as required by Road Traffic Act or alternative laws that apply in the country in 
which the loss occurs. In such circumstances, Insurers may seek to recover from you, or the 
driver, any sums paid by the Insurer to discharge that persons liability, whether in settlement 
or under a court judgement.Ive looked at the certificate of insurance for Mrs Ws policy. It doesnt include Mrs Ws 
daughter as a named driver, so Im satisfied that Mrs Ws daughter wasnt insured under the 
policy. And Mrs W has explained that her daughter doesnt have a separate policy that would 
cover her to drive the car. Because of this, I dont think Advantage acted unreasonably by 
applying the terms Ive copied from the policy documents above. 
Because Mrs Ws daughter wasnt insured to drive the car, Advantage said it would settle the 
third-party claims under the RTA. The RTA states that an insurer is obliged to meet a third-
party judgement against a person driving a car insured by the insurer but who is not covered 
under the policy  as is the case here. So, Advantage is required to consider the claim as if 
the policy was valid and as though Mrs Ws daughter was insured on it. 
The RTA also allows Advantage a right of recourse against Mrs W and her daughter for 
causing or permitting uninsured use of the car. Which essentially means that Mrs W and/or 
her daughter would be liable to reimburse Advantage the costs of the any third-party claims. 
Based on this, I dont find it to be unfair or unreasonable that Advantage is seeking to 
recover its costs from Mrs W.
Mrs W says she wasnt told that she would be held liable for any third-party claims. I have 
listened to the call that happened between Mrs W and Advantage on 29 September 2021  I 
can confirm that this was explained to Mrs W. Its understandable though that she may not 
have remembered what she was told  due to high emotions at the time of the call and the 
length of time that has now passed since it happened. But Mrs W was given the information 
so I cant fairly say that she hadnt been told shed be liable to cover the third-party costs in 
the event of a claim. In any event, the policy terms and conditions allow Advantage to 
recover its costs in these circumstances, as does the RTA  so even if Mrs W wasnt told 
during the call, the outcome would still remain that she would be liable for any costs incurred 
as a result of the incident.
I accept that Advantage sent Mrs W a letter saying the claim had been closed in November 
2021. But at this point, Advantage hadnt been made aware of a second vehicle being 
involved in the incident. Mrs W was made aware during the call she had with it in September 
2021, that a claim could be made for damages up to six years after the event. So, I dont find 
it to be unfair of Advantage to re-open the claim when it got notification of the second vehicle 
involvement. 
Advantage say that it first received notification of the involvement of a second vehicle in 
January 2022, when the third-party insurer (TPI) sent Advantage a request for 
reimbursement of costs. Because Mrs W hadnt told it about the involvement of a second 
vehicle, Advantage say it responded to the TPI to request more information. It said it didnt 
get a response. However, it received another request for reimbursement to which Advantage 
again say it asked for more information. Advantage say that it didnt hear anything from the 
TPI again until 29 April 2022 when it got in contact for a payment before proceedings. I have 
noted that these version of events from Advantage arent consistent with what it told Mrs W  
in that it had continually rejected the claim. But for reasons Ill go onto explain, I dont think 
this makes much difference to outcome of this case.
I can see that Mrs W confirmed the involvement of a second vehicle in June 2022  after 
Advantage has asked her about it. In August 2022, I can see that Advantage contacted the 
TPI to let it know that it would pay the claim  it just needed some forms completing in order 
for it to do this. From what Ive seen, Advantage didnt get the forms back from the TPI and 
the TPI went ahead and obtained a CCJ in October 2022.
I accept that Advantage should have contacted Mrs W sooner than it did for more 
information about the second vehicle. And I think Advantage could have contacted the TPI quicker than it did to say it accepted the claim. But ultimately, Advantage did eventually 
agree to pay the claim and it let the TPI know. It was the TPI that went ahead and obtained 
the CCJ against Mrs Ws daughter at a later date  Advantage had at this point agreed to 
pay the costs, it just asked for a form to be completed which isnt an unreasonable request. I 
cant hold Advantage responsible for the TPIs decision to obtain a CCJ against Mrs Ws 
daughter  or for the subsequent increase in costs as a result of litigation. 
I know Mrs W is unhappy that Advantage hasnt done anything about the CCJ. Advantage 
has paid the amount outstanding  so the judgement has been settled. This is essentially all 
it can do in the matter as the CCJ wasnt obtained by Advantage. If Mrs W wants to take 
things further then I suggest that she seeks her own legal advice, contacts the TPI or the 
court who issued the judgement.
I have noted that Mrs W has more recently raised concerns over the amount she is being 
asked to reimburse Advantage. Especially given that the damage to her car was minimal, 
and Advantage say that one of the third-party vehicles was written off after the incident. She 
feels that Advantage havent made an attempt to check the evidence of the damage from the 
third parties like it normally would and instead has just paid the claims and asked Mrs W to 
pay it back. I can understand Mrs Ws concerns here. But because these issues werent 
initially raised with Advantage, Mrs W will need to make this complaint to Advantage and 
given it time to investigate and respond. So, I havent considered the value of the claims in 
this decision. 
I do understand Mrs W is going to be extremely disappointed with the outcome of this 
decision. I know from the listening to the calls that shes upset by what happened  and the 
cause of all of this was likely a genuine oversight on her part. But unfortunately for Mrs W, 
this doesnt mean that I can find that Advantage has done something wrong in all of this. It 
follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman