DRN-3821713
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how NewDay Ltd responded to a claim she made about a purchase 
on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs N bought tickets for a concert from a ticket agency (the supplier) using her NewDay 
credit card. The concert was due to take place in August 2021 but due to the Covid-19 
pandemic was postponed until June 2022.
Mrs N said she told the supplier she was unable to attend the rescheduled date and 
requested a refund. She said that despite emailing the supplier twice to ask for a refund she 
had no response from it. So she contacted NewDay for help.
NewDay said it raised a chargeback  but discontinued this as Mrs N had not evidenced that 
the supplier had agreed to refund her as required by the chargeback scheme rule. It also did 
not uphold a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because it considered 
the technical requirements for a valid claim were not met.
Mrs N was not happy with this and complained to NewDay but it would not change its 
stance. Mrs N took her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the matter and upheld the case. In summary, he considered that 
NewDay caused Mrs N to lose out because it didnt pursue the chargeback using the reason 
code relating to a service which had not been provided. He also noted that NewDay had 
offered £100 for its customer service and said this seemed fair.
NewDay responded to disagree with the investigator. In summary, it says:
It directed Mrs N to its online portal where she ticked the category relating to refund 
not received so it didnt raise the chargeback under the reason code for service not 
provided.
Mrs N did not query how best to proceed with the chargeback  and there was 
support available for her to do so if she wished.
The supplier offered Mrs N a credit-note and it isnt clear if she accepted this so even 
a claim under service not provided would not have succeeded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay is not the supplier of concert tickets here so in considering what it should fairly do to 
resolve matters I consider its specific obligations as a provider of financial services. In that 
respect I consider the card protections of chargeback and Section 75 to be relevant here.
Due to my findings on chargeback below I do not consider it necessary to cover Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which NewDay is able to attempt to recover funds for 
Mrs N. It is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply (in this case Mastercard) so in 
order to decide if NewDay has acted fairly I have considered the relevant chargeback 
scheme rules and additional scheme guidance published in light of the Covid-19 pandemic.
From what I understand NewDay did pursue a chargeback, but it did so under a reason code 
relating to a credit not being provided. Looking at the scheme rules here it is clear to me that 
in order for this chargeback to succeed there needs to be information showing that Mrs N 
had been promised a refund / was due one under the suppliers terms and conditions.
From what I can see Mrs N contacted NewDay in writing with sufficient time for it to raise a 
chargeback and understand that:
Her concert booking was cancelled
That she had been offered an alternative
That she had refused said alternative and written to the supplier twice for a refund 
There was no indication in this letter that she had been offered a refund by the supplier. 
Instead it offered her a change of date or credit note for the cancelled concert but she did not 
want to accept these, so she requested a refund. So I think it was reasonably clear to 
NewDay that a chargeback relating to a credit not provided would not have fit the 
circumstances here, and that the code for services not provided did.
I also note that Mastercard clarified in its own pandemic guidance that even if a supplier 
offers a reasonable alternative to a cancelled service  the consumer does not have to 
accept this and can still pursue a chargeback.
I understand that after Mrs N wrote to NewDay with details of her claim it chose to direct her 
to its online portal where she indicated she had not received a refund. So it raised a 
chargeback for a credit not processed. However, NewDay has the knowledge and expertise 
of the requirements of particular chargeback codes and in light of the information it had from 
Mrs N (including the email she attached from the supplier) it would have been clear to it that 
pursuing a credit not processed did not fit the circumstances here. And I dont think it is fair 
to put the onus on Mrs N for recognising this herself. In this context it would be clear to 
NewDay that Mrs N as a layperson was simply identifying that she wanted a refund and had 
not received one, as opposed to directing NewDay as to what particular chargeback reason 
it should use here.
I realise NewDay has indicated that Mrs N could have asked for help if she needed it  but I 
dont see why she would have reasonably done so here. She provided NewDay with 
sufficient information for it to carry out the chargeback under the appropriate reason code.
I also note NewDay has suggested that even a chargeback for a service not provided would 
likely have failed because it isnt clear if Mrs N accepted the alternative offered. But the 
evidence NewDay got from Mrs N was clear that she hadnt accepted the alternative. There 
is nothing persuasive to indicate she did  so I dont think this would be a reason for not 
raising a chargeback using this reason code. As an additional point here when considering 
what is fair and reasonable I also note that even the rescheduled event was cancelled as the 
supplier went into liquidation. So even if I accepted that Mrs N had accepted a reasonable alternative (which I dont) she would have likely had the right to raise a chargeback for the 
suppliers failure to provide the alternative.
While it is not possible to say with certainty what would have occurred had NewDay raised a 
chargeback for services not provided (as I think it reasonably should have here) it does 
seem quite clear that Mrs N did not get the service she paid for and that a chargeback is 
more likely to have succeeded than not.
Thinking of what is fair and reasonable I consider that NewDay should refund Mrs N the cost 
of the tickets she paid for using her card. 
I note that NewDay has offered Mrs N £100 compensation. But it appears this is largely in 
relation to delays after the complaint was referred to this service. The focus of this complaint 
is the way the claim was handled, and I dont think there were exceptional delays in dealing 
with the claim itself  although some of the communication could have been better. All things 
considered I still think it fair that NewDay pay the £100 it has offered but in the 
circumstances I dont think it fair for me to also ask NewDay to pay Mrs N out of pocket 
interest on the refund for the tickets.
Putting things right
NewDay should refund Mrs N and pay her compensation as directed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to refund Mrs N the £247.50 she paid for the 
tickets. I also consider it fair, if it has not already done so  to also pay Mrs N the £100 
compensation it has also offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman