DRN-2901423
The complaint
Miss C complains she was poorly advised to contract out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS) by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). 
What happened
Miss C says that on 26 January 1989, she was advised by Prudential to contract out of 
SERPS with effect from 6 April 1987. As Miss C wasnt a member of an occupational 
pension scheme, she contracted out through a personal pension with Prudential. At the time 
of the advice she was 23 years old, employed and earning £5,000. 
In December 2004, Miss C joined the Local Government Pension Scheme and then became 
contracted out through that arrangement. She transferred her contracted out benefits 
accrued through her personal pension plan to that scheme in August 2005.
Miss C doesnt think that the advice Prudential gave her was in her best interests at that 
time. And she thinks that she didnt meet Prudentials criteria as she got older and earned 
more. 
So in January 2020 Miss C complained to Prudential. It didnt uphold her complaint. It said 
that Miss C was within the guidelines it set at the time to assess if someone could benefit 
from contracting out of SERPS. 
Miss C didnt agree.  So she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He felt that Miss Cs personal and financial circumstances at the time 
of the advice met the key requirements for contracting out of SERPS. So he considered that 
Prudential had acted fairly and reasonably when itd advised Miss C to contract out. 
Miss C didnt agree with our investigator. She still felt that the advice hadnt been in her best 
interests at the time, or afterwards. So her complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, largely for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
SERPS was an addition to the state pension built up by national insurance contributions. But 
it was possible to contract out of SERPS through an occupational pension scheme, or for 
those individuals without such access through a personal pension. Theres nothing to 
suggest Miss C had access to an occupational scheme so if she wanted to contract out she 
needed to divert her national insurance contributions to a personal pension. 
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS - and offered 
incentives to do so - it didnt give advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS 
and those for whom it was anticipated that contracting out would be beneficial. To provide 
clarity, pension providers made comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS with 
those from a personal pension. These calculations were based on what were felt to be 
conservative assumptions of likely future investment returns at the time. 
In drawing up these comparisons, two key criteria were considered: age and earnings. The 
rebates paid by the Government were one of the reasons where it couldve been considered 
more attractive for younger individuals to contract out than those who were older. 
The age, where the providers advice as to whether to contract out or not changed, is known 
as the pivotal age. Miss C was 23 when she contracted out. I should confirm at this point 
that Prudentials pivotal age was actually 35, not 25 as stated in our investigators view. So 
while I understand why Miss C felt she was fast approaching the pivotal age, she was 
actually several years away from it. Miss Cs annual earnings at the time were £5,000. This 
means that she was earning the minimum salary set by Prudential for individuals to contract 
out. 
So, in the context of her age and earnings, Miss C was within the guidelines for potentially 
benefiting from contracting out of SERPS. But there was no guarantee that she would be 
better off. The amount paid into her personal pension was invested in the hope it would grow 
sufficiently so that the future benefits would be more than those she wouldve received had 
she remained in SERPS. 
That depended on the growth achieved by the funds in which the pension was invested and 
the rates available at retirement for converting the pension fund into an annuity. Prudential 
quoted two different possible projected annual pensions in the illustration it produced at the 
time. The illustrations used assumptions that complied with the regulatory basis in force at 
the time. 
Ive not seen any record of Miss Cs attitude to risk at the time. But taking into account the 
projected returns and the number of years left to retirement, it wasnt in any case an 
unsuitable proposition.
Its disappointing that investment returns have been lower than anticipated and annuity rates 
more expensive than expected at the time Miss C was advised to contract out. This means 
that the gains from contracting out werent as great as had been hoped. And I can 
understand Miss Cs disappointment that she feels she may now be worse off than if she 
hadnt contracted out. But this doesnt mean the advice given at the time was unsuitable. 
I appreciate that Miss C feels shes worse off because she took Prudentials advice to 
contract out of SERPS. I acknowledge that she feels that it shouldve updated its advice over 
time as her circumstances changed. But there was no requirement for it to do this. So I cant 
reasonably hold Prudential responsible for not regularly reviewing Miss Cs decision to 
contract out of SERPS. And, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that 
Prudentials advice to contract out of SERPS in the first place was inappropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman