DRN-1158904
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy about what happened when he deposited money in his National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) bank account.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr E deposited money into his NatWest bank account via a Cash and Deposit 
Machine (CDM) in a branch. He made three separate deposits within about 10 minutes.
Shortly afterwards, Mr E checked the NatWest mobile app and this showed all of the money 
as credited to his account. On that basis, the same day, he made a payment from his 
account.
The next day, Mr E checked the NatWest mobile app again. This showed that two of his 
deposits had only been credited to his account that day, rather than the previous day. He 
also got a text from NatWest saying that his account was overdrawn. He was charged an £8 
unarranged overdraft fee.
Mr E contacted NatWest the same day. The call handler apologised for the way that the 
credits had been applied to the account and waived the £8 overdraft fee. Mr E also raised a 
complaint, as he was unhappy about the issues with depositing the money and the way the 
call handlers he spoke to had dealt with him. Mr E thought this might be due to 
discrimination.
NatWest investigated the complaint and apologised to Mr E for the service he had received. 
The complaint handler made sure there was a reminder on the file not to charge the 
overdraft fee. She told the branch that there was a potential issue with their CDM, which 
meant that it wasnt dealing with payments correctly. She also provided feedback to the call 
handler about not raising Mr Es complaint. She credited £50 compensation to Mr Es 
account for the service he had received and £20 for two hours he had spent on the phone 
dealing with the issues.
Mr E complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
thought that NatWest had dealt with Mr Es complaint appropriately and hadnt seen any 
evidence of discrimination.
As Mr E did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked NatWest to explain what normally happened when money was deposited via a CDM. 
NatWest said that it tried to process payments made after 3.30pm on the same day. 
However, workloads during the later part of the day might mean that this wasnt always 
possible. It also explained that in its bank account terms and conditions it said:
Quick deposit facility after 3:30pm or on a non-business day- Next business day.
NatWest also explained that when money is deposited via a CDM, they showed on the app 
immediately because the app works on a more real time basis. Via the app, the customer 
would therefore see a balance on the account and the available funds.
Ive thought about this and it seems clear that there is room for confusion on what a 
customer might think is available in their account and when. On that basis, I can understand 
why Mr E thought that the money was available and that he had enough money available to 
make a transfer out of his account. 
So, Ive thought about how NatWest responded to Mr Es concerns. When Mr E spoke to 
NatWest it accepted that there was an issue with how the system worked for paying in 
money, refunded the overdraft charge and followed up with the branch concerned. It also 
offered Mr E £70 compensation, including for the time he had spent on phone calls. I think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr E also said that he thought the way NatWest dealt with his concerns showed that it had 
discriminated against him based on his race. This included that NatWest didnt properly raise 
his complaint when he asked it to do so. 
I listened to a call recording provided by NatWest in which Mr E spoke to a call handler 
following receipt of a text saying he had exceeded the limit on his account. At the start of the 
phone call, Mr E explained what had happened. The call handler then looked at the 
information on NatWests systems and explained what this showed had happened. When Mr 
E disagreed with the explanation provided, the call handler accepted what Mr E said and 
apologised, on multiple occasions throughout the call, for the initial information that she had 
provided. 
The call handler also asked if Mr E wanted to raise a complaint about the issue with the 
money and her handling of the call. He said that he did. The call handler then put the call on 
hold and when she spoke to Mr E again, she said that she couldnt raise a complaint about 
herself so would need to transfer him to another call handler. Mr E said he didnt want to 
speak to another call handler and wanted to speak to a manager, so Mr E was transferred to 
a manager.
Having listened to the phone call, in my view, the call handler dealt with Mr Es concerns in a 
calm and professional manner. She listened to Mr Es concerns and looked into them. Her 
initial explanation of what happened seemed to be based on what NatWests systems 
showed in terms of the timings and order of transactions. However, when Mr E explained 
that the information wasnt accurate, she accepted what Mr E said and apologised on 
multiple occasions. She also proactively offered to raise a complaint for Mr E, both about the 
issue with the money and her handling of the call. I didnt hear anything in the phone call that 
I thought indicated discrimination, based on race or any other reason. 
Mr E has also suggested that him being transferred to a manager indicated that there might 
be discrimination. However, during the phone call, the call handler was going to transfer Mr 
E to another call handler as she said she couldnt raise a complaint about herself. The 
reason Mr E was then transferred to a manager was because he asked for this to happen. 
So, I dont think this indicated anything other than the call handler doing as Mr E asked.
I also listened to a call recording provided by Mr E in which he spoke to the NatWest 
manager. The manager explained that the issues with the money shouldnt have happened 
and how NatWest dealt with complaints. I didnt hear anything in the call that indicated to me that Mr E was discriminated against. I thought that the manager listened to Mr Es concerns, 
took them seriously and explained how the complaint process worked.
Mr E is also concerned that his complaint not initially being logged indicated discrimination. 
Having listened to the phone calls, my understanding is that the call handler couldnt raise a 
complaint because part of it was about herself. As a result, she offered to transfer the call so 
that someone else could log it. So, I think the call handler explained to Mr E that she wasnt 
raising the complaint and why. I havent seen anything to indicate that this was due to 
discrimination.
When Mr E spoke to the manager, the conversation focused on Mr Es concerns and what 
would happen when NatWest looked at his complaint. I can understand that Mr E would 
therefore be concerned that his complaint then wasnt logged. I also note that in NatWests 
response to Mr Es complaint it said that it provided feedback to the call handler about not 
raising the complaint. So, I think that it is more likely than not that the reason the complaint 
wasnt logged was because the call handler thought she wasnt allowed to raise it but that 
the manager thought the call handler had done so. But I havent seen anything, or heard 
anything in the calls, that suggested that this was due to discrimination, rather than a 
misunderstanding about who could raise the complaint and whether this had happened.
 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint. This is because although 
NatWests system for processing deposits in CDMs, understandably, caused Mr E concern 
and frustration, I think that NatWest dealt with his complaint fairly and reasonably. I also 
havent seen any evidence of discrimination in how NatWest dealt with Mr E. As a result, I 
dont require NatWest to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman