DRN-3051661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim they made on 
their rent guarantee insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H rented a property to a tenant in April 2015 through a lettings agent. A 
referencing report was obtained at the time from an agency which confirmed the tenant was 
acceptable. That report also said insurance not permitted. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H took out a rent guarantee insurance policy of which Great Lakes is 
now the insurer. Mr H made a claim on the policy in June 2020 as the tenant had stopped 
paying her rent. Great Lakes asked him for information on how the tenant referencing 
requirements in the policy had been met. 
Having reviewed the information Mr H provided and following further discussions with him it 
didnt think the policy terms as they related to referencing had been met. In particular it said 
an employers and previous landlord reference (or satisfactory alternative) hadnt been 
obtained, no income checks had been carried out and a bank statement or utility bill hadnt 
been provided. It also had concerns as to why the referencing report said insurance not 
permitted. Although Mr H said that was because the tenant had paid their rent a year in 
advance it said the information from letting agent didnt indicate that had been done. 
Great Lakes turned down the claim but said if Mr H was able to provide alternative and more 
recent referencing information that did meet its requirements it would reconsider. 
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong. She thought the policy 
was clear about what was required in relation to referencing and was satisfied Mr H hadnt 
provided that information. She accepted Mr H had obtained referencing information from a 
company when he let the property in 2015 but thought it was his responsibility to check that 
met the requirements of the policy he subsequently took out. And she thought it was fair of 
Great Lakes to offer to reconsider the claim if Mr H was able to show the tenant would have 
met those requirements at the time. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said it wasnt normal practice for the referencing agency to provide the 
information it had obtained to a landlord. He thought the policy requirements were unclear 
and hadnt been brought to his attention when he took the policy out. And given the time the 
tenant had already been in the property when he did so any landlord reference would have 
been provided by him and would have been positive. He also noted the tenant had paid rent 
on time until 2020 and had in fact paid the first (and second) years rent in advance. 
Mr H also referred to the rules as they relate to misrepresentation and the grounds on which 
an insurer could decline a claim for non-disclosure which he thought were relevant here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive thought first about the points Mr H has made as they relate to misrepresentation. Great 
Lakes hasnt suggested Mr H provided inaccurate information when taking the policy out (or 
that it would have acted differently it if had known about this). 
The reason it turned down his claim is that its a condition of the policy to obtain a tenant 
reference and Great Lakes says the information Mr H provided didnt meet the policy 
requirements. So I dont think the points Mr H has made as they relate to misrepresentation 
are relevant here. 
I also appreciate theres been some debate as to whether the tenant did pay their rent in 
advance and what the reference to insurance not permitted on the referencing report 
means. I can see this is something that caused Great Lakes concern and theres been a 
number of email exchanges about this. But I dont think its something which I need to reach 
a view on. 
Thats because even if Mr H is correct to say the report said that because the tenant had 
paid their rent in advance (and thats the reason why insurance wasnt permitted) I dont see 
it impacts the outcome of this complaint. The key reason Great Lakes turned down the claim 
was because it didnt think the policy requirements as they relate to referencing had been 
complied with. So Ive considered what the policy says in relation to that. 
Its a condition of cover that tenants in a let property have to be fully referenced. Mr Hs 
policy contains a check list which says what must be provided is as follows:
Copies of 2 forms of identification, including one which contains a photograph
A recent Utility Bill or Bank Statement
Recent Credit Check within 45 days of the tenancy agreement and within 12 months 
prior to the commencement of the policy
The Credit Check must be clear of CCJs (last 3 years and none outstanding), show no 
previous bankruptcies and demonstrates the tenant or guarantors ability to meet their 
rent commitments.
Satisfactory reference from the tenants employer and the last landlord or from one other 
referee if either unavailable
All documentation received must show that the tenant is able to meet the requirements 
of the tenancy agreement.
In this case it seems clear not all of those requirements have been met. The referencing 
check that took place doesnt appear to have included a bank statement (the only 
information provided is a summary document that doesnt include transaction information). 
Its also not clear if it included a credit check. Even if it did the report is dated April 2015. So 
it isnt in the 12 months prior to the commencement of the policy. And I cant see any 
references were provided either. 
I think those requirements are clear and I dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong in 
concluding Mr H hadnt met them. So Ive gone on to consider whether its nevertheless fair 
of it to turn down the claim he made. Mr H says these requirements werent brought to his attention when he took the policy out. 
Under the relevant rules its for the seller of the policy (which wasnt Great Lakes) to provide 
Mr H with information about the policy. So if he has concerns about this that would need to 
be directed against that business. 
In any event I can see after taking out the policy (and before he made his claim) Mr H was 
sent information about it which drew attention to changes that had been made and said 
Please read the differences in cover carefully, paying particular attention to the new tenant 
referencing conditions which need to be met to validate the insurance. 
The document went on to provide more information on this (including the checklist Ive 
included above). It said for this policy to be valid all tenants in the let property have to be 
FULLY referenced and passed the relevant checks. I think that would have made clear to 
Mr H what information was required for cover to be provided under the policy. And if he 
didnt have that information (or was unclear whether it had been obtained by the referencing 
agency) I think he could have taken action to ensure he had it. 
Mr H has drawn attention to the time the tenant had already been in the property and said 
any landlord reference would therefore have been provided by him (and any utility bill would 
have related to that property). I appreciate that may be the case but as Ive already outlined 
those arent the only elements that were missing from the referencing information required 
by his policy. I think its reasonable Great Lakes wanted this information and I dont think its 
acted unfairly in turning down Mr Hs claim because it wasnt provided. 
And while Mr H has suggested this information isnt material to the loss, the law says that its 
for the insured to show non-compliance with a term couldnt have increased the risk of the 
loss which actually occurred (in the circumstances in which it did). Without the missing 
referencing information I dont think Mr H is in a position to do that because he doesnt know 
what it would have said. 
In any case Great Lakes has made clear it would reconsider its decision if Mr H was able to 
provide information from prior to the claim being made that would satisfy the referencing 
requirements in the policy. I think thats fair and I dont think theres anything more it needs 
to do here. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
5 January 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman