DRN-2812953
The complaint
Mr E has complained about XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limiteds handling of a claim 
he made under his landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E owned a house which he let out. The letting was managed by an agency of which he 
was a director. Ill call this company Z.
In August 2018, the tenant (who had been in the property since 2015) fell into rent arrears. 
Mr E applied for a possession order. According to Mr E, he did so at the request of the 
tenant who was trying to obtain local authority housing but was not being offered anything 
because she was already living in a private rented house.
In October 2018, the tenant found water coming up through the laminate floor in the kitchen. 
She called Z which arranged for a plumber to attend. The plumber found that the leak 
couldnt be fixed without removing a kitchen base unit and possibly the concrete floor. The 
plumber therefore didnt attempt to repair the leak but instead turned the water supply off at 
the stopcock.
Shortly after the escape of water occurred, Mr E obtained the possession order though he 
did not immediately enforce this. According to Mr E, this was because he was allowing the 
tenant time to obtain suitable local authority housing.
Mr E made a claim to XL Catlin. It arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property later in
October 2018.
In November 2018, while the claim was still being considered, the tenant complained to the 
local authority about the state of the property. Later in November 2018, the local authority 
issued an Improvement Notice requiring Mr E to fix the water leak and make repairs to the 
kitchen floor. The Improvement Notice required that he carry out this work by mid-January 
2019.
According to Mr E, the tenant vacated the premises in December 2018 due to the repair 
work not having been carried out.
In February 2019, Mr E provided XL Catlins loss adjuster with two quotes for repair work.
In March 2019, the loss adjuster told Mr E that the estimates included work which was not 
covered under the insurance. It asked him to provide revised quotations.
Mr E was unhappy at the loss adjusters response. He considered all the work was eligible. 
He complained to XL Catlin and furthermore asked that it provide cover for loss of rent from 
the time the previous tenant had moved out.
In April 2019, while XL Catlin was considering the complaint, Mr E sold the property at an 
auction without having carried out any repairs. He told XL Catlin that this had been 
necessary to prevent incurring further costs while the property remained uninhabitable, 
which he attributed to its delays in accepting his claim. He said the need for a quick sale had 
meant the property had been sold below its true market value and he asked XL Catlin to 
compensate him for this also.
In May 2019, XL Catlin issued its final response to the complaint. It said that Mr E had not 
maintained the property to an appropriate standard, as was evidenced by the fact that the 
local authority had found it necessary to issue an Improvement Notice. It considered that the 
majority of the repairs for which he was claiming were therefore not insured. With regard to 
the loss of rent, it said that Mr E should have notified it of the ongoing issues with the tenant 
over non-payment of rent. It said that if he had done so, it was likely it would have cancelled 
cover back to the renewal date due to the increased risk associated with such disputes. With 
regard to the reduced value of the property when sold at auction, it said that since it had 
correctly declined the claim for the uninsured work it couldnt be held responsible for any 
loss which Mr E may have suffered.
Mr E was unhappy at XL Catlins response. He referred his complaint to us. He said he 
would be prepared to accept £18,500 in settlement of all the losses he suffered as a result of 
XL Catlins poor handling of the claim.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld but 
that XL Catlin should not need to pay as much as Mr E wanted in settlement. My findings 
were as follows:
The loss adjuster visited the property in October 2018 but didnt produce a report until some 
five weeks later at the end of November 2018.
In its report, the loss adjuster concluded that the property was in a poor state of repair and 
noted that the Improvement Notice had been issued. It said that, according to Z, it had been 
agreed that the tenant could remain in the property until the local authority could provide her 
with suitable accommodation. In the meantime, the local authority was paying the rent on her 
behalf though these payments had been stopped until the Improvement Notice had been 
complied with. The loss adjuster said that Z understood that the property would be stripped 
out and revamped once the tenant had vacated it. The loss adjuster recommended that 
cover be provided for trace and access along with drying of the area. It considered that any 
damage to the kitchen itself was pre-existing wear and tear.
There appears to have been little action on the claim between the end of November 2018 
when the loss adjuster produced its report and February 2019 when Mr E obtained 
quotations for the repair works. It is not clear why this delay occurred. Mr E said that it was 
because the loss adjuster hadnt provided authorisation for the work. The loss adjuster, on 
the other hand, said it had invited Mr E to provide quotes and it was simply waiting for these. 
In the absence of reliable evidence from either party, I consider it likely that the inaction was 
due to a breakdown in communication for which they have to share responsibility. 
When the loss adjuster eventually received the quotations, it told Mr E in March 2019 that 
the work included repairs which were not covered under the policy. In particular, Mr E was 
claiming for the cost of replacing the kitchen, as well as new carpets to the hall and lounge. 
Mr E responded to say that the sides of the kitchen units went all the way to the floor and 
had become swollen, as had the kickboards to the units. The units would in turn cause 
damage to the tiling when they were removed to facilitate the track and trace. Neither the 
kitchen nor the tiles could be matched and so it would be necessary to install a new kitchen. 
Furthermore, because the kitchen was higher than the adjoining rooms, the carpets in the 
hall and lounge had been damaged and also needed replacing.The loss adjuster said it would review matters. Mr E said it was at this point he decided to 
sell the property to minimise his losses.
The loss adjuster later offered to send another surveyor to inspect the property but 
unfortunately a suitable time for this could not be arranged before the property was sold in 
April 2019.
I have various concerns over the way that XL Catlin handled the claim.
The loss adjuster took an unreasonably long time of five weeks to produce a report following 
its site visit in October 2018. No reason has been advanced for this delay.
When the loss adjuster did eventually produce its report, it referenced the November 2018 
Improvement Notice as evidence of the property being poorly maintained. Both the loss 
adjuster and XL Catlin continued to refer to the Improvement Notice as if it somehow 
showed Mr E was an irresponsible landlord. However, it is clear that the Improvement Notice 
was issued as a direct result of the water leak and sought to address the risk posed by water 
pooling on the kitchen floor. The Improvement Notice required Mr E to break up the solid 
floor to find the source of the leak, fix this and then make good the flooring. This work 
(except the actual fixing of the leak) should have been covered under the policys trace and 
access cover. I therefore find it bizarre that the loss adjuster and XL Catlin should refer to 
the Improvement Notice in defence of their actions. I consider that the Improvement Notice 
in fact highlighted the relatively urgent need for the insured work to be carried out.
I have already mentioned the breakdown in communication which then caused the claim to 
stagnate between November 2018 and February 2019 (though Mr E is also culpable in this).
And when XL Catlin issued its final response letter, as well as repeating the unjustified 
reference to the Improvement Notice, it suggested that if Mr E had notified it of the issues 
with his tenant, it wouldnt have insured him at all. However, when we asked it to provide 
evidence in support of this, it was unable to do so. I therefore dont consider it was entitled to 
fall back on this as an excuse to avoid liability.
However, I also have concerns over Mr Es testimony.
Mr E initially implied that the tenant chose to move out in December 2018 due to the kitchen 
repairs not being carried out. He sought to claim for loss of rent from this time. However, 
when I asked him to clarify the date the property was vacated, he confirmed that it wasnt 
until January 2019 and it was through his enforcement of the possession order.
Mr E initially implied he had taken the decision to sell the property in March 2019 after the 
loss adjuster disputed the quotations he had provided. However, when I asked Mr E to clarify 
exactly when he decided to sell the property, he said that he had entered into an agreement 
on 12 February 2019 to sell the property through auction on 19 March 2019 and this sale 
completed on 16 April 2019. Furthermore, I note the tenant had a telephone conversation 
with the loss adjuster in January 2019 shortly after she had been evicted and in this she said 
that the property was already being advertised for sale on-line. I consider the tenant was 
likely accurate when she said this because she specifically referenced an element of the 
online description.
It therefore appears to me that Mr E had evicted the tenant and put the property up for sale 
during January 2019. I accept that the claim still hadnt been dealt with at this stage but, 
aside from the five week wait for the loss adjuster to issue its report, this delay appears to 
have been as much his fault as that of XL Catlin whose loss adjuster was apparently waiting to receive quotations for the insured work. I therefore consider that Mr Es decision to sell the 
property was not driven by XL Catlins decision to decline part of his claim. I acknowledge 
that XL Catlin had been slow in dealing with the claim but by the same token there appeared 
to be no urgency on the part of Mr E or his representatives to carry out the necessary 
repairs.
By the time Mr E provided the loss adjuster with quotes for the repair work, he had already 
committed to selling the property and it was less than three weeks to the date of the auction. 
I think this calls into question whether Mr E genuinely intended to carry out the works prior to 
selling the property.
Turning to the actual merits of the claim, despite my concerns over its unjustified references 
to the Improvement Notice, I consider that the conclusions of the loss adjuster as to what 
should be covered under the policy were reasonable. In particular, the loss adjuster noted 
that the kitchen was on plastic feet which would seem to protect the units against damage 
from the water leak. The loss adjuster noted that the end panels were damaged but 
considered this was pre-existing. Having examined photos which were taken at the time, I 
consider it was fair to say that any repair costs beyond trace and access costs plus drying 
were unrelated to the escape of water and therefore not eligible for cover.
Mr E argued that the kitchen end panels and kickboards had been damaged by the escape 
of water and that further damage would occur when a unit was removed to facilitate track 
and trace. The quotations he provided therefore included the cost of a new kitchen as well 
as replacement carpets in the hall and lounge.
XL Catlin tried to arrange another inspection of the property but unfortunately this wasnt 
possible before the sale of the property was completed. However, the original inspection 
didnt highlight the damage for which he is now claiming and I dont consider that Mr E has 
reasonably shown that this damage was due to the escape of water. Even if I were to agree 
with Mr E that some of his kitchen was, or would become, damaged due either to the escape 
of water or the trace and access work, he would not be entitled to the full cost of a new 
kitchen. The most he could reasonably have expected was that XL Catlin would pay the cost 
of the damaged items and 50% towards the cost of replacing undamaged matching items. 
Mr E didnt carry out any of the repairs before he sold the property. The policy states:
If WE do not reinstate the PROPERTY or pay the cost of reinstatement WE will pay:
1. the cost of repairing the PROPERTY or any DAMAGED part of it to a condition
equivalent to but not better than its condition immediately before the DAMAGE 
occurred;
or
2. the difference between the market value of the DAMAGED PROPERTY 
immediately
before the DAMAGE and its market value as a direct result of the DAMAGE;
whichever is lower.
This would mean that Mr E would need to show that the property had suffered a loss in 
market value as a result of the insured work not being carried out. However, I dont consider 
it is necessarily fair to apply this clause in this case. This is because XL Catlin was itself at 
fault in causing delays. I cant rule out the possibility that if XL Catlin had progressed the 
claim quicker, Mr E may have chosen to carry out the repair work albeit that he would have 
had to bear some of the costs himself for replacing the kitchen.I consider that even if XL Catlin had progressed the claim quicker, it is still likely that Mr E 
would have evicted his tenant in January 2019 and furthermore would have chosen to sell 
the property. There is nothing to suggest he would have acted differently. I therefore 
consider that Mr E cannot reasonably hold XL Catlin liable for loss of rent or for any losses 
due to selling the property at auction.
However, I consider it fair that XL Catlin should pay Mr E something to reflect the value of 
his claim, given its poor handling. One of the quotes provided by Mr E has a detailed 
breakdown of the costs. Based on this, the cost of trace and access plus drying would be 
£2,405. Even though Mr E did not incur these costs before selling the property, I consider 
the fair outcome is that XL Catlin pays him this amount in settlement of his claim.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr E didnt accept my decision. He provided sworn affidavits from himself and the assistant 
manager at Z, along with some photographs of the damage to the property. I summarise his 
response as follows:
There were mistakes in my provisional decision.
The possession order was actioned by mutual agreement with the tenant at a time to suit 
the tenant.
XL Catlin has not been able to produce the loss adjusters report and has not provided 
evidence to support other parts of its version of events.
Although the kitchen was on plastic feet, the side panels of the units and the toe boards 
met the floor and these had become damaged by the escape of water. Furthermore, 
removing any unit would cause damage to it and the tiling, and the lack of availability of a 
matching unit or tile meant it was legitimate to claim for the replacement of the entire 
kitchen and tiling.
He and his representatives did all they could to move the claim along as was evidenced 
in the affidavits. Any delays were entirely the responsibility of XL Catlin.
He had no wish to sell the property and had not previously sold a property within his 
portfolio which he had spent twenty years in building. The only reason he did so on this 
occasion was because of XL Catlins failure to deal with the claim in a timely way. He 
was not committed to selling the property at the time he provided XL Catlin with repair 
quotes in February 2019 and could have backed out from the sale at any time until the 
auction had actually taken place.
The fact that XL Catlin wrongly declined his claim meant that it should be liable for the 
loss he incurred in the sale of the property. Taking into account the increase in the value 
of the property since the time of sale and the lost rent, he estimated that the forced sale 
of the property due to XL Catlins poor handling had cost him in excess of £60,000 and 
he thought I should award compensation to reflect this.
XL Catlin did not offer any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that I wrongly referred to the property as a flat rather than a house. I also 
made a typographical error when referring to the sale of the property. I have now corrected 
these mistakes. Im satisfied there were no other factual errors in my provisional decision.
The tenant was evicted through the actioning of the possession order. I dont think it makes 
a difference whether this was delayed until a time to suit the tenant.
XL Catlin has provided a copy of the loss adjusters report and this has photographs which 
were taken at the time of the visit. XL Catlin has also provided satisfactory evidence of the 
telephone call which took place between the loss adjuster and the tenant in January 2019. It 
has furthermore provided a copy of an email sent to Mr Es representative in March 2019 in 
which it explains why the quotations which had been provided were unacceptable because 
they included uninsured works and asks that revised quotations be provided. 
I have looked at the photographs provided by Mr E but I remain of the opinion that it was fair 
for XL Catlin to say it would cover only the cost of trace and access plus drying. The loss 
adjuster noted that the end panels had pre-existing damage from wear and tear and that it 
was not possible to identify damage from the escape of water separate from this. I consider 
that this was a fair position to take. I have already explained why, even if some of the kitchen 
had been damaged by the escape of water, Mr E could not have reasonably expected 
XL Catlin to provide full cover for a complete replacement kitchen, including undamaged 
matching items.
I note the affidavits which say that Mr E and his representatives were constantly chasing 
XL Catlin to move the claim along. Unfortunately, there is a lack of evidence to show this. 
The assistant manager of Z refers to frequent emails and telephone calls to XL Catlin but 
I have seen no copies of these emails or logs of these calls.  Mr E did not provide repair 
quotations to XL Catlin until late February 2019, over four months after making the claim. 
I dont have documentary evidence from either party to show why there was this delay and 
so I cant reasonably conclude it was all the fault of XL Catlin. Instead, as I have already 
explained, I think that it was likely due to a breakdown in communication for which both 
parties should share responsibility.
This may have been the first time Mr E had sold a property within his portfolio. However, Im 
still not persuaded that he only took this action because of XL Catlins failings. I note that 
Mr E hasnt denied that he put the property on the market as early as January 2019. And 
when he eventually provided repair quotes to XL Catlin it was less than three weeks before 
the property was scheduled to be sold at auction. Even if he could legally have withdrawn 
the property from sale at this point, I consider the evidence indicates he had committed 
himself to the idea of selling the property. 
XL Catlin was wrong when it ultimately said it would not pay anything towards the claim. 
However, in March 2019 it clearly explained what repairs it would cover and Im satisfied its 
stance was reasonable. Mr E did not provide revised quotations or undertake any repair 
work before selling the property and so there was no opportunity for XL Catlin to make a 
settlement on this basis. I therefore dont see why XL Catlin should be liable for the loss 
Mr E says he incurred through selling the property at auction.
 
While I recognise that Mr E will be disappointed, I remain of the opinion that the fair outcome 
in this dispute is that XL Catlin should pay him £2,405 to reflect the cost of trace and access 
plus drying, had the insured work gone ahead.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint.
I require that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited pays Mr E £2,405 in settlement of 
his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman