DRN-1994578
The complaint
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs Es complaint. 
     
Mrs E has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in March 2006.
What happened
Barclays objected to the complaint being considered by this service because it thought Mrs 
E had made the complaint too late.
But Barclays did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% 
of Mrs Es PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell her about the high level of 
commission and profit share shed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs Es complaint about 
how the policy was sold. And she thought Barclayss payment was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.
Mrs E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
Why I cant look at the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or, (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Barclays hasnt agreed.
Mrs E made her complaint to Barclays in 2019. This is more than six years after Barclays 
sold the policy to her  in 2006  which is the event she is complaining about here. So I need 
to consider whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mrs E should 
reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain.
Barclays sent Mrs E two letters in 2014 which alerted her to the possibility something might 
have gone wrong with the sale of her policy. Given what Mrs E is complaining about  that it 
wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional   I consider she should reasonably have been 
aware she had reason to complain if she got these letters.
Mrs E says that she didnt receive these letters. She wants proof that they were actually sent 
to her at the time or that she received them.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service. As such, my 
decision is based on balance of probability. So, in reaching my decision, I have looked at the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
We know that Barclays did mass mailouts to its customers who had had PPI. I wouldnt 
expect it to send each of these letters by anything other than standard mail  so it would not 
have evidence from the Post Office of proof of postage or receipt. However, Barclays has 
provided copies of the letters that it sent to Mrs E in 2014. On balance, I am satisfied that 
they were produced and sent to Mrs E at the time.
These letters contained Mrs Es correct address. On the basis that, in the vast majority of 
cases, correctly addressed post is delivered safely, on balance Im satisfied it is most likely 
that the letters Barclays sent in 2014 were delivered correctly. And as Barclays sent two 
letters, that increases the chances that at least one would have arrived. I have no doubt that 
Mrs E has provided her genuine recollection of events. However, given the passage of time, 
it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs E has forgotten about receiving the letters.
Three years from the date of the letters is 2017, which means that Mrs E needed to make 
her complaint about the PPI mis-sale by this date. But as she didnt complain until 2019 her 
complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply.
Mrs E says she complained to Barclays before the PPI deadline of August 2019 that had 
been advertised by the FCA, so that is the relevant deadline. Unfortunately thats not the 
case here, because Barclays put Mrs E on notice in 2014 that she might have reason to 
complain and therefore she had to do so within three years of that notice. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if I am satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But, other than what Ive looked at 
above, Mrs E hasnt given any other reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that we are unable to help Mrs E with her complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Finally, as Ive explained above, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was more than half what the PPI cost  because it didnt tell Mrs E about 
this. 
My decision
My decision is that I am unable to look into Mrs Es complaint about how her PPI policy was 
sold, as it was made out of time and there are no exceptional circumstances for the delay. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman