DRN-2265916
The complaint
Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold him a whole-of-life plan which wasnt 
suitable for him. 
What happened
In 1992, Mr P met with an appointed representative of a predecessor business of Zurich to 
discuss taking out a form of critical illness cover to protect a mortgage on an investment 
property. At the time, Mr P was aged 24 and was single.
 
The adviser recommended that Mr P start a whole-of-life plan - a unit-linked protection plan 
which provided life and critical illness cover. The initial monthly premium was £25, and the 
sum assured was £43,572. The plan included an indexation benefit, which meant that the 
sum assured would increase each year in line with rises in the average earnings index. 
In 2019, Mr P complained about the advice he received. He said that hed been pressurised 
into buying the plan, and the policy exclusions werent explained to him. He didnt feel that 
the cover was something that he needed. He said he relied upon the advice and feels he 
was badly let down. 
Zurich said that the fact find document from the time Mr P was recommended the plan noted 
that his financial objective was protection of his lifestyle if he became sick or disabled. It said 
that he was buying an investment property for £35,000 and wanted to have critical illness 
cover that wasnt assigned to his lender. It said that the whole-of-life plan would provide a 
cash lump sum if Mr P was diagnosed with a specified critical illness and included full life 
cover. It said it also has the potential to build up a value over the long term. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the information from the time suggested that Mr P had a fair amount of knowledge 
of his future intentions and wanted this plan when he was buying an investment property. 
She felt that the representative had recommended a plan that was suitable for Mr Ps 
requirements. She said that the product information explained the policy in detail, and Mr P 
had received further copies of this in 2009, when hed contacted Zurich for information about 
his plan. 
The investigator said that Mr P had paid for the policy for more than twenty years and had 
received statements and plan reviews. She felt this suggested that Mr P understood what he 
was paying for.
 
Mr P said that he was buying an investment property on a buy-to-let basis and life cover 
wasnt a condition of the lending. He only needed critical illness cover for his borrowing. He 
said that Zurich needed to justify selling him a plan that included life cover, as he didnt have 
any dependants. He said hed trusted the adviser but was sold a product that wasnt right for 
him. He said he hadnt been in a position to know whether the product was right for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked over the details in the fact find completed for Mr P at the time this plan was 
recommended to him. And while it is noted that he was purchasing an investment property, it 
also records his objective from the meeting was to protect his lifestyle if he became sick or 
disabled. 
The initial sum assured was higher than the amount of his mortgage borrowing, and it wasnt 
assigned to Mr Ps mortgage lender. It also included an indexation benefit to increase the 
level of the sum assured each year. I think this suggests that the plan could be used to 
provide him with a means to repay his mortgage and provide an additional lump sum, in the 
event Mr P passed away, or was diagnosed with a specified illness or suffered one of the 
included events such as a heart attack; stroke or permanent total disability. And this would 
meet his objective of being able to protect his lifestyle.
I can also see that his application form for the whole-of-life plan notes that hed exchanged 
contracts on the property he was buying two days before, and the policy was to be issued 
urgently or as soon as possible. 
So although I appreciate what Mr P has said about his circumstances at the time and why he 
feels that he didnt have a need for this type of cover, I think the information from the time 
suggests that he was wanting a form of protection that would be provided by this whole-of-
life plan.
At the time, Mr P was single and had no-one that was financially reliant upon him. But I dont 
think this in itself means that the recommended plan wasnt right for him.  I say this because 
the information from the time suggests that Mr P wanted a form of protection over that of the 
amount his mortgage commitment, and that he wanted to make sure his lifestyle could be 
maintained if he suffered a critical illness. This plan would pay out the greater of the sum 
assured or the plan value in the event of death or disability.
 
Ive considered the plan documentation and product information that Mr P wouldve been 
provided with at the time it was sold. And I think that this makes it clear that it provides life 
and critical illness cover and that it is a whole-of-life plan. Mr P has also received statements 
and plan reviews during the intervening years, which would have set out the plan benefits.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think that this whole-of-life plan was mis-sold to Mr P, 
when it met his requirements at the time, and the information he was given explained the 
cover it provided.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman