DRN-3169788
The complaint
Mr M and the estate of the late Mrs M complain that a business since acquired by Santander 
UK Plc gave them unsuitable investment advice in 2002.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M met with Santander in 2002 for advice on investing a sum of money. 
Between them, they had around £125,000 in cash, and wanted to invest to generate income 
during their retirement years. 
The bank assessed the couple as having a cautious attitude to risk, and recommended they 
invest £60,000. The money was distributed across a pair of ISAs, with the remainder placed 
in a jointly held Unit Trust. Santanders advice was to use their £60,000 to purchase units in 
its Balanced Portfolio  Income fund. 
Mr and Mrs M took a regular monthly income from their investments for a time, before 
surrendering them in around 2008. 
In 2018, Mr M and Mrs Ms estate complained via a representative that Santanders advice 
to them was unsuitable. In short, they felt the bank had advised them to invest too much and 
take too great a risk with their money. 
Santander rejected their complaint. It felt its advice was suitable for the couples 
circumstances. Mr M and Mrs Ms estate didnt accept the banks response, and referred the 
matter to our service. 
This complaint was reviewed twice by different investigators, and neither of them upheld it. 
Both felt that Santanders advice seemed tailored to Mr and Mrs Ms need for additional 
income. And neither felt that Santanders choice of fund represented too great a risk to Mr 
and Mrs M. As their representative didnt accept our investigators findings, the matter has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has retained copies of some of the documents which were completed during its 
meeting with Mr and Mrs M. These documents confirm that in 2002, Mr and Mrs M were 
living off of income from their pensions. The documents also confirm this pension income 
was sufficient to meet their monthly expenditure, but it didnt leave them a surplus of any 
kind. On the face of it, I think its reasonable of Santander to have concluded their main 
objective was investing to generate income. The couple demonstrated a clear need for it, 
and the banks recommendation letter suggests they asked for it.  
In their complaint, Mr M and Mrs Ms estate have noted how coincidental it is that their 
pension income is recorded as precisely matching their outgoings each month. The 
suggestion being this assessment is inaccurate. I accept this is a possibility. But having 
considered the evidence, its not something that gives me cause for concern. Assessing 
income and expenditure forms an important part of how much and whether someone can 
afford to invest or not. If Santander had miscalculated what Mr and Mrs M could afford, it 
mayve forced them to dip into their investments early, or cut back on their spending in other 
areas. Having looked at the submissions Ive received, theres been no suggestion that this 
happened. I note their investments were left intact for the five years Santander 
recommended. So whilst I can accept that Mr and Mrs Ms income exactly matching their 
outgoings might suggest some rounding or estimation occurred, Im not persuaded the 
banks figures were so inaccurate as to undermine the advice it gave them. Particularly as 
theres been no evidence submitted which shows Mr and Mrs Ms income or outgoings were 
different than Santanders recorded them as being. 
Having established Mr and Mrs Ms need for income, Id expect Santander to have 
considered their circumstances, such that the bank could build a picture of what level of risk 
the pair could afford to take when investing.  
Mr M and Mrs Ms estate have said theyd expect Santander to have regarded them as low 
risk investors. From the paperwork Ive seen, I can see Santander did do this. Having met 
with the couple, the banks advisor noted in their recommendation that the couple were new 
to investing, as well as commenting you have an overall cautious attitude towards risk & 
reward and you are prepared to accept a low degree of risk to achieve your stated 
objective. The letter goes on to say that Mr and Mrs M are disappointed with deposit based 
returns and wish to consider alternative investment options with more potential for a higher 
return. 
Considering Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
conclusion for Santander to draw. The couple were retired and living on a relatively low 
income, so I think its likely their capacity for any losses will have been very small. Yet the 
advisors letter suggests the Mr and Mrs M are likely to have given an indication that they 
were prepared to accept some risk in pursuit of their objective. So Im satisfied the banks 
suitably assessed the level of risk Mr and Mrs M could take with their money. 
Mindful that Mr and Mrs M were prepared to accept a small amount of risk, Id expect 
Santander to have considered this together with their need for income when recommending 
where they should put their money. 
Santander advised Mr and Mrs M to invest in the Balanced Portfolio  Income fund. The 
supporting paperwork identifies this as a medium risk product and explains the fund aims 
to provide income and capital growth by investing in low and medium risk corporate bonds 
and fixed interest stocks, both international and in the UK. Its further explained elsewhere 
that The fund will invest primarily in low and medium risk corporate bonds. 
In their complaint, Mr M and Mrs Ms estate have made much of this funds designation as a 
medium risk product. The suggestion being this label alone is grounds to say the banks 
advice is unsuitable. Theyve also argued that as the fund seems to invest in a single asset 
class, fixed interest securities, that its poorly diversified and risky as a result. I disagree. 
Its not this services place to risk rate Santanders funds. Rather, its for me to decide 
whether the investment recommended by the bank was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances. On balance, I think the investment was most likely to have been suitable. 
The funds focus on fixed interest securities meant it was suited to Mr and Mrs Ms objective 
of generating income, whilst also limiting their exposure to stock market fluctuations which might erode their underlying capital. And Im not persuaded the fund was poorly diversified, 
as the paperwork Ive seen describes it as investing in a broad range of fixed interest 
securities. Finally, mindful that Mr and Mrs M couldnt tolerate big losses to their investment, 
Ive considered that investing in fixed interest securities, whilst not risk free, afforded them a 
greater degree of security than would likely be achieved through investing in equities, but 
came with the potential to generate greater returns than cash. So overall, Im not persuaded 
by Mr M and Mrs Ms estates argument that this fund was unsuitable. Especially as they had 
a clear need and a desire to generate income. Im satisfied this investment provided Mr and 
Mrs M with the opportunity to achieve their objective, at a level of risk the evidence 
persuades me they were willing to take. 
A key part of Santanders recommendation to Mr and Mrs M was how much the couple 
should invest. Even if its choice of fund might have, in principle, been suitable for them, the 
greater the amount Mr and Mrs M were advised to invest, the greater the risk theyd be 
taking. So Ive considered carefully whether they were advised to invest too much. 
Of the £125,000 the records show Mr and Mrs M held in cash, Santander advised them to 
invest £60,000, or 48% of it. This left the couple with £5,000 in easy access accounts for 
emergencies, and a further £60,000 in a limited access account with another provider. 
In making their complaint, Mr M and Mrs Ms estate have argued £5,000 wasnt a sufficient 
cash reserve to deal with unforeseen costs. But I think this takes too narrow a view of the 
couples finances. Santanders advice was to invest the £60,000 to generate a monthly 
income. Mr and Mrs Ms monthly outgoings were taken care of by their pensions, which 
would leave any income generated by this investment as a surplus. So whilst the £5,000 
they were advised to save represented around six months of their outgoings, their new 
income gave them the potential to save on top of this. It also came with the potential to allow 
them to supplement their lifestyle, as well as to fund unforeseen costs without touching their 
reserve. In addition to this, Ive considered that whilst the £60,000 they held on a limited 
access basis was certainly best left untouched, the reported terms of this account werent so 
prohibitive that it would be impossible to access them in a real emergency. So overall, Im 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M were advised to risk too much of their money. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms estate have raised that the couples age and health werent considered as 
part of Santanders recommendation. But I think a discussion about their health is likely to 
have taken place. The advisors recommendation letter sets out that Mr and Mrs M reported 
to be in good health at the time of the meeting. And this same letter also specifically notes 
that the investment was discussed in relation to their age as well. I understand that, sadly, 
Mrs M began struggling with her health around the time she invested. But it doesnt seem as 
though this had begun at the time they took advice, because of what the advisor has noted 
in their letter. On balance, Im not persuaded that Santanders recommendation failed to 
consider Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. Nor am I persuaded it was unsuitable for the couple 
to invest in light of those circumstances. 
Overall, I think Santander provided Mr and Mrs M with suitable advice. Its weighed their 
clear need to generate an income during their retirement years against their capacity for risk, 
which Im persuaded its correctly identified. It proceeded to recommend an investment 
which met their needs and didnt expose them to more risk than Im persuaded they could 
afford to take, mindful of the other savings they held.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman