DRN-4354276
The complaint
Mr F complains that TF Global Markets (UK) Limited t/a ThinkMarkets (TFGM) wrongly 
suspended his trading account and voided his trades.
What happened
In 2017 Mr F opened an account with TFGM through which he could trade Forex on its 
platform. In November 2017 TFGM suspended several client accounts, one of which was Mr 
Fs. It subsequently voided trades he had made with the effect that he lost the profits he had 
made. 
Mr F complained to TFGM but it didnt uphold the complaint. It said its risk and trading team 
had identified some unusual trading behaviour on his account. It referred to its terms and 
conditions prohibiting certain trading practices, including arbitrage, taking advantage of price 
latency and off-market trading. 
It said where such practices are identified it can take action in accordance with its terms and 
conditions and that having concluded he traded in breach of its terms it acted within its rights 
in voiding the trades and removing the profits. 
Mr F responded and said that it had illegally withdrawn funds and this was now an issue of 
fraud. He said he had never carried out latency arbitrage and said all his trades had been 
held for a very long time and that he hadnt benefitted from any swift fluctuation in price. He 
demanded that it pay him the €14,952 profit that it had removed. 
TFGM didnt agree with Mr F and he referred his complaint to our service. When providing 
information to the adjudicator about the complaint TFGM said, in short that:
It has evidence that multiple IP addresses have been used by different account 
holders and this clearly indicates the users are different people and they are in 
different locations.
The other IP addresses have also traded using a latency arbitrage system.
Most of Mr Fs trades are very short term  a few seconds or minutes - and in 
assessing the open versus close time its clear that scalping/latency trading is taking 
place as well as others using Mr Fs account without permission.
Mr F was part of a network that targeted TFGM between September and November 
2017 using latency arbitrage, in breach of its terms.
TFGM provided a document titled Individual Client Analytics which provided a graph showing 
Mr Fs increasing profit between October and November 2017 and details of the accounts 
that were linked by way of several IP addresses.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, in short she made the following key findings:
Having carefully considered Mr Fs trading history and transactions there were a total 
of 28 trades between 25 October 2017 and 14 November 2017 that were opened and 
closed immediately. She isnt persuaded that this is something an ordinary retail 
trader could physically achieve.
Between opening the account with a stake of €4,000 and it being closed by TFGM Mr 
F made a total of €20,346 and profit of €14,873 after accounting trading losses and 
costs, in a period of 34 days.
There is nothing wrong with making profits from the use of high frequency trading 
algorithms and trading systems but the high level of profits is unlikely to be consistent 
with fair trading and it is her view he was trading with an unfair pricing advantage and 
had not acted in good faith or in line with the terms and conditions.
TFGM was entitled to withhold and void the trading profits obtained resulting from the 
unfair trading advantage Mr F had.
Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and, in summary, said the following:
Whilst statistically most retail traders lose money, not all do.
He has been trading successfully for years and has his own strategy which works for 
him, as he has refined it over many years of trading.
To generalise him as a retail trader is inaccurate when you consider the leverage he 
was offered.
There is no substance behind the generic statements that have been made and the 
statements are inaccurate when considering him as an individual trader, rather than 
generalising him with all traders.
As Mr F didnt agree with the adjudicator the matter was referred to me for decision. I issued 
a provisional decision explain why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld the findings 
from which are set out below..
My role is to come to a fair and reasonable decision based on the information provided by 
the parties and taking into account relevant; law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, 
and standards; codes of practice; good industry practice at the time - where I consider it 
appropriate to do so. 
The main issue I need to decide in this complaint is whether TFGM did anything wrong in 
voiding Mr Fs transactions made between October and November 2020. Its reasons for 
taking the action that it did comes down to it concluding that Mr F had practised arbitrage 
and taken advantage of price latency on its platform when trading.
TFGMs terms and conditions include provisions that dont allow such trading and allows it to 
take action where it has reason to think such trading has taken place. Such terms and 
conditions are not uncommon in broker agreements and there is nothing wrong with TFGM 
imposing such terms on its clients.
The relevant provisions of TFGMs terms and conditions are set out below. I have 
highlighted in bold what I consider the key parts are in terms of my findings. 
Clause 7.8:We reserve the right to refuse any trades placed by you that we judge to be clearly 
outside the prevailing market price such that they may be deemed non-market price 
Transactions, whether due to manifest error or stale, incorrect, or broken price feeds. 
Where we have opened or closed a trade before becoming aware of the price disparity, we 
may at our absolute discretion either treat that trade as void
Manifest error is defined as:
An error, omission or misquote (including any misquote by our dealer) which by fault of 
either of us or any third party is materially and clearly incorrect when taking into account 
market conditions and quotes in Markets or Underlying Instruments in the prevailing market 
at that time. It may include an incorrect price, date, time, Market or currency pair or any error 
or lack of clarity of any information, source, commentator, official, official result or 
pronouncement.
Clause 7.10:
Internet connectivity delays and price feed errors may create a situation where the prices 
displayed on the trading platform do not accurately reflect market rates. ThinkMarkets does 
not permit the practice of arbitrage, nor does it allow Client to take advantage of price 
latency. Transactions that rely on price latency or arbitrage opportunities may be 
revoked at our discretion. ThinkMarkets reserves the right to make the necessary 
corrections or adjustments on the Account(s) involved, including, but not limited to, 
withholding any profits made by Client while using these trading tactics. Accounts that 
rely on arbitrage strategies may at the sole discretion of ThinkMarkets be subject to 
ThinkMarkets intervention and approval of any Transactions.
Clause 18.2.1:
When ThinkMarkets executes a Transaction on the Clients behalf, ThinkMarkets may buy 
or sell on securities exchanges or directly from or to another financial institution shares or 
units in the relevant instrument. The result is that when the Client places Transactions with 
ThinkMarkets the Clients Transactions can have an impact on the external market for that 
instrument in addition to the impact it might have on ThinkMarkets price. This creates a 
possibility of market abuse.
Clause 18.2.2:
You represent and warrant to ThinkMarkets and agree that each such representation and 
warranty is deemed repeated each time you close and open a Transaction and each time 
you place or cancel an Order that:
(a) You will not place and have not placed a Transaction with ThinkMarkets or otherwise 
behaved, nor will you behave in a manner that would amount to market abuse and/or 
market manipulation by you (or by you acting jointly or in collusion with other 
persons).
(b) You will not have placed a Transaction or order that contravenes any primary or 
secondary legislation or other law or regulatory rule including in relation to insider 
dealing or any corporate finance activity.
Clause 18.2.3:
In the event that you place any Transaction or order in breach of any of the 
representations or warranties given above, or ThinkMarkets has grounds for suspecting that you have done so, ThinkMarkets may, in our absolute discretion (and 
with or without giving you notice): (i) close the Transaction or order and any other 
Transaction or orders that you may have open at the time; (ii) enforce the Transaction 
against you; or (iii) treat all your Transactions as void, unless and until you produce 
conclusive evidence that you in fact have not committed the breach of the representations 
and warranties above.
Clause 18.2.4:
The exercise by ThinkMarkets of its rights under this clause shall not affect any other right 
of ThinkMarkets, under this Agreement or law, whether in respect of that Transaction or 
order, or any other Transaction or order.
Contractual discretion 
In summary clause 7.8 gives TFGM the right to void trades it judges are outside the 
prevailing market price such that they are deemed to be non-market prices. Trades that 
involve price latency or arbitrage would be outside the prevailing market price and so would 
be covered by this clause.
Clause 7.10 specifically prohibits arbitrage and taking advantage of price latency and gives 
TFGM the right to revoke transactions which rely on such practices and to make corrections 
or adjustments to the account. 
Clause 18.2 also allows TFGM to void all transactions where it has grounds for suspecting 
that a client has placed a transaction that would amount to market abuse or market 
manipulation. 
The wording of the above terms doesnt require that TFGM establish that Mr F has in fact 
traded using price latency, arbitrage or otherwise carried out non-market trades, or placed a 
transaction that amounts to market abuse or market manipulation. They provide TFGM with 
a contractual discretion, where it judges that he traded in such a way, to take a number of 
steps including treating trades as void and making corrections and adjustments to the 
account.
The contractual discretion under clauses 7.8 and 7.10 allows TFGM to void the transactions 
it judges have been made using arbitrage or price latency. The contractual discretion under 
clause 18.2 is wider, as under that clause TFGM can void all transactions where it judges a 
transaction involved market abuse and/or market manipulation.
I have seen nothing that makes me think that market manipulation cannot include arbitrage 
or price latency and as such if TFGM judges transactions did involve such practices it can 
then exercise its contractual discretion under clause 18.2 to void all transactions.
TFGM must exercise its contractual discretion honestly and in good faith without 
arbitrariness, capriciousness, or irrationality. This is commonly referred to as the Braganza 
duty set out in the case of Braganza v BP Shipping Limited (2015) UKSC 17. 
So, I dont need to decide whether it is more likely, than not, that the trades placed by Mr F 
meant he practiced arbitrage and/or took advantage of price latency and/or involved market 
abuse or manipulation. I just need to decide whether TFGM exercised its contractual 
discretion in accordance with its Braganza duty. In other words, whether, when TFGM 
judged that Mr Fs trades used those practices, it exercised its judgment honestly and in 
good faith, without arbitrariness, capriciousness, or irrationality.In this regard, whilst I have summarised the points made by Mr F in response to the 
adjudicators opinion to show I have considered these, I dont think it is necessary for me to 
address what he has said as this doesnt go to the issue of whether TFGM exercised its 
contractual discretion under the relevant clauses in line with its Braganza duty. Having 
considered what the parties have told me and the overall evidence I am satisfied that TFGM 
exercised its contractual discretion in accordance with its Braganza duty. 
TFGMs conclusion that Mr Fs trades had involved price latency and arbitrage followed its 
consideration of the prices he opened and closed trades at on its platform as compared to 
the market price as provided by Reuters. It has provided a snapshot of Mr Fs trades 
between 25 October 2017 and 2 November 2017 which shows the open and close prices on 
the platform as well as the market price. It can be seen from this that the open and close 
prices on the trades werent in accordance with the market price. 
TFGM also identified multiple trades which were very short term, measured in seconds or 
minutes, whereby it says the latent pricing on its system was exploited. TFGM also says that 
it identified other account holders using the same IP addresses which traded in the same 
way.
Therefore, I am satisfied that TFGM exercised its contractual discretion under the relevant 
clauses in accordance with its Braganza duty and that it didnt act arbitrarily, capriciously, or 
irrationally - given the information available to it at the time  in voiding Mr Fs trades in 
accordance with its rights under the clauses I have set out above.
In addition TFGM obtained expert evidence in May 2018, after it voided the trades, which it 
considers supports its actions. That expert evidence concluded, based on an analysis of the 
trading account, that Mr F, was using a latency arbitrage strategy which was designed to 
exploit a weakness in TFGMs platform  i.e. its prices lagging behind the market price.
The expert also noted that Mr Fs account was accessed from various IP addresses in 
various locations in the world - as already identified by TFGM at the time it voided his trades 
-and identified other account holders using a similar latency arbitrage strategy to Mr F using 
the same IP addresses as his account. 
This expert evidence supports my conclusion that it was fair and reasonable for TFGM to 
have voided Mr Fs trades, because it supports TFGMs allegation that Mr F was trading in 
breach of its terms.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing any further information or evidence they 
wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision but neither party responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided a response to my provisional decision there is no basis for me 
changing the findings I made therein, which form part of this final decision.
In summary I am satisfied that TFGM had a contractual discretion which allowed it to void Mr 
Fs trades and it exercised that discretion in accordance with its Braganza duty  without 
arbitrariness, capriciousness, or irrationality  and as such it didnt do anything wrong.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman