DRN-2259905
The complaint
Ms W complains she missed out on an enhanced transfer value due to the way LEBC Group 
Limited trading as The Retirement Advisor handled her application to transfer her defined 
benefit pension to a personal pension.  
What happened
Ms W is a member of her employers occupational pension scheme (OPS). At the end of 
August 2018 she and other employees of the company had the opportunity to transfer their 
pension benefits to a personal pension with a provider of their choice. And as an incentive to 
transfer the amount would be increased (known as an Enhanced Transfer Value or ETV).  
Ms Ws ETV was £360,610 including an enhancement of £32,783, and she was initially 
given until 30 November 2018 to accept this offer. Ms W was interested in transferring so 
she could release 25% tax-free cash (TFC) in December 2019 when she turned 55 to repay 
her mortgage, leaving the remining funds invested, an option which wasnt available with the 
OPS. Ms Ws employer appointed LEBC Group Limited trading as The Retirement Advisor 
(LEBC) to provide impartial advice to assist members in making the decision whether to 
transfer and give up their benefits in the OPS. 
LEBC agreed to a face to face meeting with Ms W and she arranged with her employer for 
the acceptance deadline to be extended to 18 January 2019. Following the meeting LEBC 
issued their report and Ms W decided to transfer. She notified LEBC and the OPS of her 
decision by email on 15 January 2019. But she failed to return the completed paperwork by 
the deadline, so the transfer didnt take place.
To their surprise Ms W contacted LEBC in August 2019 with an update on the proof of 
identity (ID) documents required for the transfer. But as the deadline had passed the ETV 
was no longer available. Ms W believes she complied with the deadline by emailing her 
acceptance, so LEBC should pay £90,000 to reflect the lost opportunity, plus compensation 
for the emotional upset and the impact on her relationship with her employer. 
LEBC didnt uphold the complaint saying it had been made clear to Ms W she needed to 
return the completed paperwork by the deadline to receive the ETV. They said she could still 
transfer her pension to release the TFC, but shed need to request a current transfer value. 
Ms W complained to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but 
didnt uphold it. He thought LEBC had done enough to make Ms W aware of the deadline 
and expecting to receive the ETV more than six months after the deadline wasnt 
reasonable. He pointed out she might not have lost our financially, as even the ETV wouldnt 
provide the same benefits at retirement as her OPS, and she can still take the tax-free cash 
element when she takes her pension benefits. 
Ms W disagreed saying LEBC had a duty of care to her as a lay person with no knowledge 
of how pensions work. Its a stressful situation because shes worse off than if shed been 
able to pay off her mortgage early. 
So shes asked an ombudsman to review the case and issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Let me explain why.
Ms Ws position is she accepted her employers offer of an ETV by email on 15 January 
2019, which was within the extended deadline. She assumed doing so had secured the ETV 
and she could then transfer at that value at a future time of her choosing. But the evidence 
Ive seen doesnt support that position, as I think its clear that acceptance of the offer 
required Ms W to fully comply with the instructions she was given by the deadline, and she 
didnt do that. 
Generally speaking an OPS is a valuable benefit, hard to match elsewhere, so transferring to 
a personal pension even with the ETV may not provide the same benefits as staying put. Its 
a regulatory requirement that anyone wishing to transfer a pension of £30,000 or more must 
take financial advice. But even before she received the offer, I think Ms W was pretty set on 
transferring away from her OPS as this was the only way she could release her TFC at age 
55 without taking her benefits. The ETV was appealing as it gave her about £8,200 more 
TFC. 
Ive seen Ms Ws ETV offer letter dated 31 August 2018 from her employer. As well as 
setting out the financial details of the offer it said that because planning for retirement is an 
important decision theyd appointed a retirement specialist to provide free impartial advice 
(which was on a telephone appointment basis). Ms W could have consulted her choice of 
IFA (at her own cost), but shed still need to obtain the offer acceptance form from LEBC and 
return it to them. Ms W wanted to confirm LEBCs credential as she couldnt find them on the 
Pensionwise website. And she was wary of a telephone discussion for such a large 
transaction so LEBC exceptionally agreed to meet with her in person, and that meeting took 
place on 11 October 2018. As Ms W hadnt received their report in early November 2018 she 
requested a deadline extension to provide time to consider the report and consult her own 
IFA if necessary. Her employer extended the acceptance deadline to 31 December 2018. 
LEBC provided their report to Ms W by email on 12 December 2018 and by post on 
15 December 2018. The covering letter includes a large table listing the contents. The first 
two items were the Recommendation Report (which recommended Ms W transfer from the 
OPS into flexi-access drawdown), and a Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report. By 
the side of these was the bold instruction read carefully. And then underneath was listed 
the Offer Acceptance Form and the Application Form for the personal pension provider 
LEBC had recommended. Alongside these was the bold instruction Sign and return it in the 
pre-paid envelope provided if you wish to follow the recommendation and accept the Offer. 
It did not state an email would be an acceptable alternative to the return of the signed hard 
copy documents. 
On the second page in bold under Next steps it read The transfer value is only guaranteed 
until 31st December 2018 and after this date the offer of this value will lapse. So Ms W was 
made aware she had to return the hard copy instructions by this deadline (less than three 
weeks away with Christmas in the middle), and if she didnt do so, the offer wouldnt be 
available to her. A three-week timescale was set out in the original offer which 
recommended consulting LEBC by 9 November to meet the original deadline of 
30 November 2018 and should have been sufficient time given Ms W had already decided to 
transfer in order to use the TFC to repay her mortgage. But on 17 December 2018 Ms Ws 
employer further extended the deadline to Friday 18 January 2019 confirming this deadline 
relates to receipt of the form confirming acceptance  not for the transaction to be completed. So she had about five weeks to consider her decision and return the form in 
order to meet the deadline and secure the ETV. 
On receipt of the report Ms W raised a number of queries with LEBC about fees, tax 
implications and retirement age which were responded to on 2 January 2019.Ms W told 
LEBC on 15 January 2019 shed decided to accept the offer, saying shed emailed her 
employers Benefits department which had agreed to forward her acceptance to the OPS 
trustees. LEBC replied asking Ms W to forward the hard copy of the OPS Transfer Form with 
the application form for the personal pension, and told her on 22 January 2019 they hadnt 
received them. Because LEBC didnt receive the completed hard copy documents by the 
deadline, she lost the ETV, the personal pension wasnt set up and the transfer didnt take 
place. So Ms W retains her benefits in the OPS scheme unchanged. 
Ms W says the recommendation report doesnt mention the deadline, and she had no idea 
the ETV was for a limited time. But I dont think thats right, otherwise she wouldnt have 
twice asked the OPS to extend the acceptance deadline. And while the deadline isnt 
mentioned in LEBCs report (because it is simply an analysis of benefits of transferring) as 
Ive explained earlier, the covering letter and the original ETV offer makes the deadline clear. 
I dont think LEBC was obliged to chase Ms W for a response as she might have decided to 
retain her valuable OPS benefits. Ms W says she thought she could accept the ETV and 
then complete the transfer at a later date. But the ETV offer letter makes clear if she decided 
to transfer her pension benefits in the future the transfer value would be calculated in the 
normal way and paid without an enhancement. 
Under the heading Next steps towards the end of LEBCs report are bordered, bold 
instructions explaining what Ms W needs to do if she wishes to transfer. It tells her to send 
the OPS scheme transfer form, the personal pension provider application pack, her original 
birth certificate, her marriage certificate and a bank statement dated in the last three months. 
A checklist was provided and a pre-paid envelope. Underneath it reads If you do not wish to 
follow my advice or you do not return the forms to us by the 31st December 2018 deadline 
you will not transfer, and you will remain in the Plan. Providing a pre-paid envelope 
emphasises that returning the hard copy documents was necessary. Is satisfied the 
instructions were clear and written in such a way to be easily understood by someone who 
wasnt a pension expert.  
LEBCs report was written when the 31 December 2018 deadline applied, but as Ms W had 
already arranged with her employer to extend the deadline again to 18 January 2019, I think 
she ought reasonably to have understood the instructions in the report had to be complied 
with by the revised deadline to secure the ETV. And so an email confirming acceptance 
wasnt sufficient as she needed to have completed and returned the OPS transfer form and 
the application form to the new pension plan, as well as the proof of ID documents. 
I think the ID documents were likely to be required by the new personal pension provider 
rather the OPS, and it seems Ms W had some difficulties complying with the ID 
requirements, as some documents were in her maiden name or her husbands name. It 
might have been possible to submit the ID documents later, but to transfer with the ETV it 
was essential for Ms W to return the forms by the extended deadline of 18 January 2019, 
which she failed to do. Ms W could still have proceeded with the transfer in 2019 if shed 
been prepared to accept a transfer value without the enhancement, but shed still have 
needed to complete the application and satisfy the ID requirements. 
I cant ask the OPS scheme to honour the ETV which was only available until 18 January 
2019. And while I realise this will be disappointing, Im not going to ask LEBC to pay Ms W 
the compensation she seeks, as Im satisfied they provided Ms W with the service theyd 
been engaged to provide.  My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman