DRN-3522615
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Alexander House Financial Planning Limited, an appointed 
representative of Quilter Financial Limited (Quilter) charged him for work undertaken in 
connection with a recommendation to switch pensions which Mr B didnt go ahead with. 
Quilter is now responsible for the advice given. For ease Ive just referred to Quilter below. 
What happened
In brief, Mr B approached Quilter in June 2021 about reviewing his existing pension 
arrangements  a stakeholder pension plan with a fund value of £62,203.71 and a Section 
32 Buy Out plan with a fund value of £101,038.30. 
Mr B had a meeting with Quilters adviser on 9 July 2021. Mr B signed an Authority to 
Proceed document on 9 July 2021. At section A he confirmed hed received and reviewed 
the literature noted on the form. The documents provided included Quilters Terms of 
Business. Section B set out the initial/advice fee confirmation and showed a maximum fee of 
4% of the amount invested. The Terms of Business included the following: 
Cancellation of Advice Process after Initial Engagement
If you ask us to stop work after agreeing to these fees you will be invoiced a minimum fee of 
£500 or a proportion of the agreed fee depending on when you ask us to stop working if this 
is higher than £500 as follows:
Stage 1 - After agreeing the fees, but before we do any work = 0% of agreed fees 
(minimum £500);
Stage 2 -After we have started researching your current arrangements and/or 
solutions, but before designing a solution = 25% of agreed fees (minimum £500);
Stage 3 - After we have started designing solutions, but before we present our 
recommendation = 50% of agreed fees (minimum £500);
Stage 4 -After we have presented our recommendation, but before we start 
implementation = 75% of agreed fees (minimum £500);
Stage 5 - After starting the implementation process = 100% of agreed fees (minimum 
£500).
Quilter issued a suitability report on 10 September 2021 recommending that Mr B transfer 
both of his existing pension plans to a new platform account with Quilter (a Collective 
Retirement Account) and invest in a WealthSelect portfolio. 
There was some discussion about the recommendations before Mr B emailed the adviser on 
10 October 2021. Mr B referred to his disappointment with the proposal and his health 
issues and said he no longer wished to continue. The adviser replied the following day 
saying the agreed fee for full completion was 4% deducted from the pension fund. As it 
wasnt going to complete the partial fee would have to be invoiced to Mr B as per the Terms 
of Business. And that it was at the 75% stage of the process. 
Mr B indicated he was unhappy. Quilter treated that as a complaint. Quilter sent its final 
response letter to Mr B on 28 October 2021. Amongst other things, Quilter referred to the 
Authority to Proceed form Mr B had signed, confirming his agreement to proceed, on the 
terms and conditions set out, with a full review of his retirement provision. Quilter said the 
form clearly stated Mr B should read the documentation and, if he didnt understand 
anything, ask for further information. As he hadnt done so, Quilter had concluded Mr B had 
proceeded in a fully informed position. Quilter said it was the consumers responsibility to 
read the documentation provided. 
The Terms of Business documented the initial advice fee based on the size of the 
transaction. As the value of Mr Bs pension fund was £163,235.18 that was 4%. Quilter also 
referred to the Cancellation of Advice Process after Initial Engagement section in the Terms 
of Business. Stage 4 had been reached  after Quilters recommendation had been 
presented but before implementation had started  which was 75% of the agreed fee. Quilter 
said an invoice for £4,897.06 (75% of £6,529.41) would be issued.
 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look into what had happened. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said Quilters Terms of Business say that fees will be 
payable if the advice process is cancelled after the initial engagement. It was reasonable to 
expect a customer to review a contract before entering into it. The Authority to Proceed 
document Mr B had signed said he was happy to proceed under the terms and conditions 
set out and that hed read them. 
The investigator took into account what Mr B had said about feeling under pressure during 
the meeting but said the expectation was that someone wouldve read the terms and 
conditions before signing the contract. Even taking into account that Mr B had been ill, there 
was enough time for him to have read the terms and conditions between when hed signed 
the Authority to Proceed and when Quilter presented its advice. And updated terms and 
conditions had been sent to Mr B in September 2021. Both versions issued contained the 
same terms in respect of the fees payable if the advice process was cancelled. 
 
Mr B was disappointed with the investigators view and made the following points:
The adviser had said that any fees would be made clear in advance but hadnt told 
Mr B about the cancellation fee. Mr B and his wife hadnt known they were 
committing to anything. 
The documentation had been sent to Mr B when he and his wife were on their way to 
the first meeting with the adviser. The adviser had asked Mr B to sign when he knew 
Mr B hadnt read the Terms of Business. The adviser shouldve made it clear Mr B 
would be committing and told him about the fees. Mr B and his wife thought they 
were just starting off the process to get a proposal.
The adviser had said Mr B would be better off by amalgamating his pensions with the 
adviser managing them. But the recommendation showed Mr B wouldve been 
substantially worse off if hed taken out the recommended plan earlier and with no 
obvious prospect hed be better off now. And hed have to pay a very large fee. The 
adviser had messaged Mr B on 4 October 2021 admitting, contrary to what hed said 
at the first meeting, that he couldnt better Mr Bs existing plans. By the time Mr B had 
found all that out he was committed to paying the fee anyway and which he hadnt 
been told about until it was too late.
 Mr B has health issues which have resulted in him being on sickness benefits. He 
hadnt been able to read all the documents and he was under the impression that he 
was going to get a proposal and then make a decision. Hed trusted the adviser when 
hed said Mr B and his wife would be better off and any fees would be stated up front. 
The recommendation letter had anomalies. For example, it said Mr B was unhappy 
with his existing pension providers and that he was thinking about an ISA (Individual 
Savings Account). 
Mr B is on benefits and has no savings.  He wouldnt have pulled out knowing hed 
be liable for over £4,500. The adviser hadnt mentioned the fee. Mr B said he hadnt 
been given accurate information and vital information had been withheld from him. 
The investigator considered what Mr B had said. But he wasnt persuaded to alter his view. 
In summary he said a projected fall in retirement value didnt necessarily mean a proposed 
course of action was unsuitable. Nor did Mr Bs comments about anomalies mean the advice 
wasnt suitable. But, in any event, as the recommendation wasnt followed, the central issue 
was whether it was reasonable for Quilter to charge for the cancelled transaction. 
The investigator thought it was. Mr B had relied on what the adviser had told him about 
charges but the documents hed signed set out the terms that would apply, including that 
thered be a charge if the advice process is cancelled. Mr B had signed to say hed read the 
terms and conditions. The meeting with the adviser was very shortly after Mr B had received 
the documents. But he couldve asked for more time to read them before signing the 
Authority to Proceed document. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn of Mr Bs health issues and his current personal and financial 
circumstances. If Mr B was unaware hed be charged even if he didnt accept the advisers 
recommendations, finding out hed be getting a bill for approaching £5,000  and which 
wouldnt be paid out of his pension fund - wouldve come as a very unpleasant surprise 
indeed. 
The issue is whether Quilter should be allowed to charge Mr B that fee - 75% of the 4% fee 
hed have paid if hed accepted the recommendation and the switches to a Quilter Collective 
Retirement Account had been made and the investment portfolio set up. 
First, and from a contractual point of view, I think Quilter was entitled to charge the fee. Mr B 
signed the Authority to Proceed document on 9 July 2021. At section A he confirmed hed 
received and reviewed the literature noted on the form. The documents listed included 
Quilters Terms of Business. Mr B also confirmed by email on 16 September 2021 that hed 
been provided with the updated Terms of Business and that he was happy to proceed. 
As Ive set out above, the Terms of Business included provision for where the advice 
process was cancelled. The fees that Quilter would charge, depending on what stage of the 
process had been reached, were set out. Here the matter was at Stage 4 - Mr B cancelled 
the process after Quilter had presented its recommendation but before implementation of the recommendation had been started. In that situation Quilter would charge 75% of the agreed 
fee  which was 4% of the transfer values. 
In making that charge, Quilter was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions Mr B 
had agreed to. He may not have read and understood those terms and conditions but hed 
signed to say he had. Generally, if someone has signed a contract then theyll usually be 
bound by it, even if they havent actually read all the terms and conditions. 
Sometimes though a contract will be unenforceable. Ive thought about if theres anything 
which might mean Quilter shouldnt be able to rely on the charges set out in the Terms of 
Business or if it would be unfair to say that Quilter should be allowed to charge Mr B. 
Mr B has said he was unaware that hed be charged. He says he thought he was only 
getting general advice and didnt realise he was committing to anything. But I think hed have 
known, by signing the Authority to Proceed form, he was entering an agreement with Quilter, 
the terms of which were set out in the documents which had been issued to Mr B. Those 
included the Terms of Business which, as Ive said, included provision for Quilter to charge 
even if the advice process was cancelled.  
I note what Mr B has said about the documentation only having been sent when he was on 
his way to the first meeting. And that the adviser knew Mr B hadnt read them when he 
signed to say he had. I think Mr B couldve asked for more time. Or made sure, after the 
meeting, that he read over the documentation and queried anything he didnt agree with. As 
the investigator noted, there was also plenty of time between signing the Authority to 
Proceed and Quilters recommendation being presented for Mr B to review the 
documentation and say if he didnt want to proceed on that basis. Quilter may still have been 
entitled to charge a fee but it wouldve likely been lower, depending on the stage reached 
and the work done as set out in the Terms of Business. I think responsibility to make sure he 
understood what hed signed rested with Mr B, not the adviser. 
Ive thought about if the charges, in the event of cancellation of the advice process, 
shouldve been specifically pointed out to Mr B. Section B of the Authority to Proceed set out 
the initial/advice fee confirmation and showed a maximum fee of 4% of the amount invested. 
It didnt show the fee if the advice process was cancelled. The suitability report confirmed the 
4% initial fee but it didnt mention thered still be a fee if Mr B decided against going ahead. 
And, as far as Im aware, the adviser didnt verbally and in discussions with Mr B point out 
thered be a fee even if Mr B didnt accept the recommendations. 
But, as Ive explained, the fee was disclosed in writing. The Terms of Business was a fairly 
lengthy document but it was divided up into sections and not difficult to navigate. The section 
about pension and investment fees included the information Ive set out above, under the 
heading Cancellation of Advice Process after Initial Engagement and which clearly set out 
what fees would be payable if Quilter was asked to stop work after the fee had been agreed. 
And examples in monetary terms were also given. Even if it hadnt been discussed with the 
adviser, the written information Mr B had been given made the position clear. 
Ive noted what Mr B has said about his health issues and why it was difficult for him to 
understand the documentation he was given. But I havent seen anything to suggest he 
made the adviser aware of any problems he had in reading and understanding the 
documents he was given. I think its difficult to say the adviser was wrong to proceed on the 
basis Mr B wouldve read and understood the documents he was given and which hed 
signed to say hed read and understood.
I dont think the anomalies which Mr B has pointed to change anything in terms of whether 
Mr B is responsible for paying Quilters fee. Regardless of whether Mr B was unhappy with his existing providers and even if he wasnt in fact contemplating an ISA, I think its clear he 
was thinking about his pension arrangements and whether he should make changes and he 
sought advice from Quilter on that basis.  
I think theres some suggestion from Mr B that the recommendation may not have been 
suitable and might have resulted in a lower pension fund. I also note what Mr B says about 
the advisers email of 4 October 2021 and that he couldnt recommend a fund that would 
beat Mr Bs current fund. But performance isnt the only or indeed the main consideration. As 
the adviser went on to explain, he could only recommend funds taking into account Mr Bs 
position and risk rating.  And, as Quilter pointed out, the fund (or portfolio) that was 
recommended was lower risk and in line with Mr Bs attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
Risk and reward are linked  theres a correlation between the amount of risk and the 
potential for return. Generally a lower risk investment has less potential for profit whereas a 
higher risk investment has a higher potential for greater profit but also for a greater loss. The 
adviser could only recommend funds that were suitable for Mr B taking into account his 
moderate attitude to risk and his capacity for loss which was, in my view, low. 
Ultimately it was Mr Bs decision to leave things as they were. If hed realised the agreement 
allowed Quilter to charge him a substantial proportion of the fee even if he didnt accept the 
recommendation, I doubt hed have instructed Quilter. But I have to be fair to both parties. 
Mr B instructed Quilter to review his pension arrangements. The Authority to Proceed 
document recorded, against the description of advice/services provided, that it was a full 
review and retirement advice servie. And thats what Quilter did and even if in the end Mr B 
decided not to accept the recommendation. I dont think Mr B was misled by Quilter. The 
advice fees were disclosed even if not specifically brought to Mr Bs attention. I think Quilter 
was entitled to charge Mr B for the work it had done and in line with its agreement with him. 
What happened was unfortunate and I have considerable sympathy for Mr B. But, for the 
reasons given, Im unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman