DRN-3468189
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) has 
rejected a claim he made under his pet insurance policy on the ground that the condition 
treated was excluded from cover by the policy.
What happened
The background to Mr Ms complaint has been set out in detail by our investigator in her 
view of Mr Ms complaint so I wont repeat it here in detail. Briefly stated though, Mr Ms dog, 
who Ill refer to as B, required veterinary treatment in May 2021 after displaying signs of 
severe lethargy, breathing difficulties and loss of appetite. 
B first saw the vet on 11 May and after investigation and a number of tests, he was 
diagnosed on 13 May as having lung worm. The necessary investigation, hospitalisation, 
treatment and medication resulted in a significant vet bill of £4,395.17. Mr M made a claim 
under his policy for £4,000 as that was the maximum payable under the policy. Mr M has 
since cancelled the policy.
On 8 October 2021 C&G declined Mr Ms claim having noted from Bs veterinary history that 
he hadnt received any lung worm prevention. It referred Mr M to the following terms of his 
policy:
Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury, including but not limited to 
the following:
Control and elimination of fleas, ticks, skin mites, worms and lung worm;
Any claim costs for not having any of the Treatments listed above carried out if 
suggested by Your Vet.
Any Illnesses that Your pet should be vaccinated against or where Your pet has 
not been dewormed or treated for fleas.
General Conditions
As a minimum, Your dog should be vaccinated against distemper, hepatitis, 
leptospirosis, kennel cough, lung worm, heart worm and parvovirus.
So as the terms and conditions of Bs policy state that a pet must be treated for the 
prevention of lung worm, and as B hadnt been, C&G rejected Mr Ms claim.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that the policy 
wording makes it clear that B had to have been treated for the prevention of lung worm for 
any costs to have been covered. Because there isnt any evidence that this happened, she 
couldnt say that C&G was wrong in its assessment of Mr Ms claim, and it wasnt fair to ask 
C&G to pay a claim that was fairly declined in line with the policy wording.
Mr M doesnt agree with our investigators assessment of his complaint. He maintains that 
throughout Bs lifetime, he has consistently ensured that B attended any relevant vet 
appointments whether that be for a vaccination or a health check-up, and that he had had 
any vaccinations that were recommended by his vet. He also argues that the policy 
documents dont state that lung worm is excluded. He has asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. His complaint has therefore been passed to me for consideration 
and a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
C&G had initially sought to reject Mr Ms claim on the ground that B was a guard dog, as this 
had been referred to in his vets notes. Having investigated this for some time, C&G didnt 
pursue this exclusion. C&G then raised another exclusion in his policy, namely that it was 
one of the General Conditions of his policy that a dog should be vaccinated against lung 
worm (amongst other specifically identified illnesses), and that any illness that a pet should 
be vaccinated against is not insured.
I can fully understand Mr Ms upset that he is faced with a significant vet bill that C&G wont 
cover. I can also understand his upset that it was some five months before C&G informed 
him that the ground for rejection of his claim was that B had suffered from lung worm when 
not vaccinated against it.
However Ive looked closely at Mr Ms policy, and I cant disagree with what C&G says. 
Whilst Mr M is technically correct in saying that the policy doesnt specifically state that cover 
for lung worm is excluded, I think the policy is clear that it excludes the treatment of 
conditions that should be vaccinated against. In the General Conditions it states that the 
following conditions apply: 
You must ensure that Your pet is vaccinated and dewormed and that all 
recommended vaccinations are kept up to date.
As a minimum, Your dog should be vaccinated against distemper, hepatitis, 
leptospirosis, kennel cough, lung worm, heart worm and parvovirus.
The Insurance Product Information Document, the summary of the policys main coverage 
and exclusions, also states, under What is not insured that this includes Illnesses that 
your pet should be vaccinated against  followed by Please see policy wording for full details 
of all exclusions.
As our investigator has explained to Mr M, this service has to decide if a business has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in rejecting a claim. As the policy does contain a specific exclusion 
for the treatment of conditions that should have been vaccinated against, I cant say that 
C&G has been unfair or unreasonable in its rejection of Mr Ms claim. It was rejected in line 
with the policy wording.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman