DRN-3073495
The complaint
Mr C complains to Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited about an options trade he was closed 
out of due to margin. He doesnt think the margin requirement was correctly applied and 
seeks compensation for the money lost. 
What happened
Mr C has a trading account with Saxo. He was short a FTSE contract option but got closed 
out at 8:17am on 1 September 2020 when his equity on account fell below the margin 
required. Mr C was unhappy about this as he didnt think he ought to have got stopped out at 
that level. He thought there might have been a system error as hed tried to trade his way out 
himself and had tried calling Saxo to speak to a trader but couldnt get through. 
Mr C lost around £800 so he made a complaint. Saxo looked into Mr Cs concerns but didnt 
agree theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd told him about margin requirements 
when he opened his account and shared the figures for the margin requirement and his 
equity position at the time of the stop out  having considered those numbers they said the 
stop out was executed correctly. They also confirmed there hadnt been any system failure, 
instead Mr C couldnt buy back the option as the margin had already been breached and the 
system was already working an order to buy back. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C asked for our help. One of our investigators had a look at what had 
happened, but she didnt think Saxo had done anything wrong and instead thought Mr C had 
been fairly stopped out in line with the terms of the account. Though she noted Mr C said 
hed been told by the account opening member of staff that the margin requirement was 50% 
not 100%, Saxo didnt have call recordings which confirmed that. She acknowledged Mr Cs 
concerns about not being able to trade out of the position himself, and not being able to call 
the trading desk, but didnt think this changed anything. 
Mr C didnt agree. He made a number of further submissions to our service and said, in 
summary:
Saxo closed his position prematurely and contrary to verbal and email 
communication in relation to margin requirements being standard across the 
derivatives industry and exchange. 
He hadnt agreed to a 100% margin with Saxo  other firms only require 50% in line 
with EU rules which is the industry standard. He shared a link to Saxos website to 
highlight that a 100% requirement wasnt clearly stated. 
Instead, Saxos terms concerning margin on short options included a complex 
formula of their own making which was vague and unquantifiable  he didnt think it 
was in line with the industry standard and felt itd only be understandable to Saxo. 
He was short, with no direct ownership and exchange margins wouldnt close a 
position out if the market moved less than 1%  this wasnt explained to him or made 
clear. Had it have been clearer, he wouldnt have opened the position in question 
given what was set to be an onerous margin requirement. 
He had an email from Saxo that confirmed they acted in line with exchange margin 
parameters but in his case, they hadnt. 
If hed have opened the position with another firm, the exchange margins would have 
applied and his position would have been successful retaining 100% of the sold 
option premium. 
Saxo failed to offer the telephone trading service which had been a pre-requisite to 
him opening his account.
And that thered be many phone calls where Saxo explained their focus as a firm on 
options, repeatedly saying how competitive they were and how they worked in line 
with exchange margins. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint concerns the disclosure and application of what he considers 
to be non-industry standard margin requirements. In thinking about these points, I have 
carefully considered his account set up, activity and evidence he has shared. 
When Mr C opened his account he told Saxo he was an experienced trader and indicated he 
had several years of experience in the options market. In order to open the account, he had 
to agree to Saxos terms and conditions. These covered a number of points, including the 
fact he needed to maintain margin or his positions could be closed out. The terms also 
mentioned Mr C could monitor his margin utilization in real time on the platform, that 
movement in the market price would affect the amount of margin required and that different 
margin requirements applied to different investments traded. 
Saxos website also included their commissions, charges and margin schedule. This covered 
margin utilisation and made clear, It is not just vital but also your responsibility to effectively 
manage and monitor your account at all times to ensure that it does not breach 100% margin 
utilisation. If your account breaches 100% margin utilisation, then automatic margin close-
out may commence, and consequently positions may be closed and existing orders may be 
cancelled. In June 2020, Mr C opted up to the advanced profile so he could sell contract 
options  to do so required confirming understanding of an additional disclaimer for clients 
who wanted to write options and receive margin benefits on options strategies. He confirmed 
to Saxo he agreed with their additional disclaimer which said, in part:
Losses on a short option position can be substantial when the market moves against 
the position. We will therefore charge premium margin to ensure sufficient account 
value to be available to close the short position and additional margin to cover 
overnight shifts in the underlying value. The margin charges are monitored in real-
time for changes in market values and a stop out can be triggered when the total 
margin charge for all margined positions exceeds the clients margin call profile.
The generic formula for the short option margin charge is: 
Short Option Margin = Premium Margin + Additional Margin
Ive considered the trade data from the day Mr C was closed out. Mr Cs cash balance was 
£4,478.04 but his running loss was £790, with a cost to close of £3.30  his net equity 
available for margin was therefore £3,684.74, just over £10 short of the £3,695.44 required  
or at 100.3% of the margin utilisation  so thats why he was closed out. 
But I appreciate that it isnt the numbers Mr C challenges. It is instead the grounds for why 
Saxo required £3,695.44 on account. Mr C tells us that when he opened his Saxo account, 
he was quite careful to make sure he understood it fully and assured himself that the service 
provided would meet his expectations as an experienced trader. Mr C had made repeated 
references to a Saxo employee who was involved in the account opening process, had explained margin requirements and had described a different level of service than was 
ultimately provided. Unfortunately, of the call recordings Saxo were able to share with our 
service none covered these points so I have been unable to consider whether Mr C was 
indeed told conflicting information. 
Mr C has told us that Saxo requiring 100% margin differs to the 50% required elsewhere. He 
also shows us emails where Saxo confirm they are aligned with the Intercontinental 
Exchange and points out that Saxo werent clear about what margin hed need for a position 
like his. But Mr C seems to be referring to the 2018 measures introduced by the European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) which sought to protect retail clients against 
negative account balances  this doesnt apply here as Mr Cs position doesnt constitute a 
restricted speculative investment. Whats different here is that given the product in question, 
Saxo werent able to set a basic percentage as to what margin would be required  the 
figure was dependent on a combination of factors and Saxo gave examples of options 
margins on their website. 
In Mr Cs case, the margin for a short put index option was the amount (1), multiplied by the 
figure size (10), and then the maximum of either the underlying overnight value and 
underlying spot (8% * 5,902.67) minus the difference in spot price and strike price (or out the 
money) (102.67), or the minimum underlying value (4%) multiplied by the strike option 
(5,800). So ((8% * 5,902.67)  102.67; 4% * 5,800) which gives 369.5436; 290 with each 
being multiplied by the figure size (10)  3,695.436; 2,900. As 3,695.436 is the larger of 
these two numbers, Mr Cs margin requirement was therefore £3,695.44.
I appreciate the formula is not straightforward, but I dont agree with Mr C in that Saxo 
werent transparent or clear about the margin requirement needed. The trade ticket screen 
shown when Mr C wouldve opened his position set out the margin requirement and whether 
viewed on his desktop or his app, hed have been able to track the impact of maintenance 
margin against his margin utilization. So Saxo didnt require Mr C to have worked this out for 
himself  its systems will have tracked it in real time for him. After Mr C opened his position 
on Wednesday 26 August, I can see he received margin calls twice on Friday 28 August 
letting him know he was at 75.1% utilization and then again early on Tuesday 1 September 
where he passed through 81.2%, 90.2% and 100.3% before being closed out. Saxos logs 
show Mr C saw these margin call pop ups and they also have notes to show emails were 
sent. 
So from everything Ive seen, though the manner in which margin was calculated wasnt a 
simple percentage I dont agree Saxo did anything wrong. Mr C was able to monitor his 
position and see what margin was needed, he was also warned ahead of the weekend about 
the utilization of his available cash. Ultimately, his position faced a higher margin 
requirement due to the option becoming closer to being in the money along with running 
losses. And from the emails hes shared, I havent seen anything from the account opening 
employee that gave a different impression of what Mr C ought to expect. 
Mr Cs ancillary points to his complaint are that there was a system error that prevented him 
from trading out of the position ahead of the stop out, and that Saxo failed to offer the 
telephone support hed been promised. But from what Ive seen, between 8:03am and 
8:13am it seems Mr C tried to cover his position with five different orders, however none of 
these were executed given the limits he input. I can see he will have faced a technical issue 
as he cites, however I can see this was due to overlapping orders. Thereafter, Mr C was too 
close to his maximum margin utilization to meet the requirements of the second option and 
as Saxo explained, the system had begun working a buy back to close him out. 
I mentioned before that we dont have evidence that supports Mr Cs claims of telephone 
trading being available. Saxo instead say this is only the case when there is an issue with the system  but even if it had of been, Im not persuaded the overall outcome would differ 
given the prices Mr C was prepared to buy back at and the impending closure of his position. 
I appreciate Mr C will remain unhappy with my decision, but I am satisfied that his contract 
with Saxo means their margin requirements, rather than those of the exchange, apply here. 
The key point is that Saxos platform allowed Mr C to see what margin was required, so even 
if he hadnt worked out to be what hed expected, he ought to have been aware in the days 
prior the close out and could have taken mitigating action himself. I also note Mr C says 
other firms work differently, but as I am sure he will appreciate, in this case we must 
consider the relationship he has with Saxo.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman