DRN-3436422
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd treated him after he told them 
he was in financial difficulty.
His complaint was brought on his behalf by his wife, Mrs L. For ease of reference Ill refer
only to Mr L.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement
with FCA Automotive. The agreement was for £18,332 over 48 months, with 47 monthly
payments of £281, and a final payment of £4,708 if he wished to purchase the car. At the
time the car was less than 6 months old and had done 2,000 miles.
Mr L said that he said that he missed a few payments not long after entering into the
agreement as he struggled to find work. He said that he agreed a three-month payment plan
with FCA Automotive in September 2019 to clear the arrears. He said he agreed to pay an
extra £50 per month on top of his contractual monthly payment.
He said he contacted FCA Automotive in February 2020 to extend the payment plan. He
said he was told this wasnt possible and they would be increasing his monthly payments.
He said he was told his only other option was to cancel the agreement. He said he wrote to
them on 18 February 2020 asking for the agreement to be terminated. He then cancelled the
direct debit for the monthly payments.
He said he wrote to FCA Automotive in July 2020 seeking a response to his request to
terminate.
He said he then received a Notice of Sums in Arrears letter on 1 August 2020, and in
September 2020 they called him to ask if he now wanted to start paying his monthly
payments. When he said he didnt want to pay, he said they told him they would collect the
car, and they would calculate the arrears he owed after theyd sold the car.
He said hed asked for the agreement to be extended whilst he was resolving his financial
difficulties and was upset that they didnt treat him sympathetically.
FCA Automotive said that theyd issued Mr L with an arrears letter in February 2020, and the
next steps wouldve been to terminate the agreement and recover the car. They said Mr L
had called them on 12 February 2020 and agreed to an increase in payments to clear the
outstanding arrears.
They said Mr L didnt make the payments and they wouldve taken steps to terminate the
agreement. But they said this didnt happen because of the national lockdown introduced
following the Covid 19 pandemic. They accepted this had caused a delay, but said theyd
given Mr L the opportunity to voluntary terminate the agreement in February 2020. They said
he hadnt taken this option, and they hadnt received the letters hed said he sent to them in
February 2020 and July 2020.
On 7 October 2020 FCA Automotive issued a Default Notice informing Mr L he had to pay
£2,895, or they would terminate the agreement. They said theyd agreed to collect the car
from Mr L, and review the arrears after the car had been sold.
In June 2021, following the sale of the car FCA Automotive told Mr L that to complete the
Voluntary Termination he needed to pay £3,545. This was made up of the amount
outstanding on the agreement, and damage charges. They said they hadnt charged him for
the eight months from October 2020 when he agreed to voluntary terminate to the date the
car was sold.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. He said he wanted FCA Automotive to clear the
outstanding balance they say he owes them under the agreement.
Our investigator said that Mr L had failed to make any payments after February 2020 and
couldve made more attempts to contact FCA Automotive. He also felt it was reasonable for
FCA Automotive to sell the car and charge Mr L for the outstanding arrears.
He said that FCA Automotive had agreed two payment plans with Mr L and this showed they
treated him sympathetically when he was in financial difficulty.
He didnt think FCA Automotive had acted unfairly. He said that theyd said they didnt
receive Mr Ls letters, and he didnt contact them until August 2020. So he felt it was
reasonable for them to collect the vehicle and once sold, review the arrears balance.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said that our investigator had explained FCA
Automotives delays were understandable given the pandemic, but he hadnt shown the
same consideration to him. He said that he had called FCA Automotive in February 2020 to
explain he was in financial difficulty, but hed been forced to agree a higher payment
plan that, when he thought about it after the call, he couldnt afford.
Mr L also commented that our investigator hadnt addressed his complaint that FCA
Automotive had failed to consider his request for an affordable payment plan in February
2020 when he told them he was in financial difficulty.
I asked FCA Automotive to explain what steps theyd taken when Mr L told them he
was in financial difficulty. They said that they were considering terminating the agreement in
September 2019 due to the amount of arrears on the account. But they said that they 
allowed Mr L to repay an extra £50 per month towards the arrears, in addition to his normal
monthly payment. This increased his monthly payment to £331.
They said theyd also told him of his option to voluntary terminate the agreement, or part
exchange or sell the car and settle the account.
They said theyd accepted his offer to pay an extra £50 and told him this was an exception
and theyd review the agreement in four months time.
After four months, in which they said hed maintained the higher payments, they said theyd
offer a six-month arrangement to repay the remaining £644 of arrears. This meant that from
February 2020 Mr L wouldve had to pay an extra £107 on top of his original agreed monthly
payment of £281.
They said Mr L had told them he wanted to proceed on this basis. They said theyd
considered whether or not the new amount was affordable based on what he had told them
over the phone in February 2020.They said Mr L didnt make the first payment and cancelled the direct debit. But he kept the
car for another ten months without making any payments towards the agreement.
Because Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
I sent Mr L and FCA Automotive a provisional decision on 30 March 2022. In this decision I 
explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
Mr L was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Financial Difficulty
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator, has rules that set out what 
lenders like FCA Automotive should do when a customer tells them they are in financial 
difficulty. These rules are set out in Section 7 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 7.3.4R says that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5G gives examples of the types of 
things a firm like FCA Automotive might do. This includes allowing deferment of the 
payment of arrears where immediate payment may increase the customers repayments 
to an unsustainable level.
And CONC 7.3.6G says that firms should allow customers like Mr L a reasonable time and 
opportunity to repay the debt.
I have to consider whether or not FCA Automotive treated Mr L with the forbearance and 
due consideration expected in the handbook.
Mr L contacted FCA Automotive in August 2019 after he failed to make that months 
payment. He explained he had lost his job in June 2019 but was expecting to start a new 
job in August 2019. FCA Automotive allowed him to pay an extra £50 towards the arrears 
for the next four months. This is in line with the rules Ive set out above. They didnt require 
immediate payment, and they considered Mr Ls circumstances at the time  although Ive 
seen nothing to suggest they considered his income and expenditure. Id have thought 
theyd want to do that when he told them he had a new job.
I also accept it was reasonable for them to review the arrangement after four months. Until 
this point Mr L had maintained the increased payments. FCA Automotive said theyd 
allowed Mr L a further six months to clear the arrears  they said this was the maximum 
arrangement they could offer, and was four months longer than their normal offer of a six-
month arrangement.
They havent said how they calculated or considered whether or not this arrangement was 
affordable to Mr L. They said he told them it was affordable, so they accepted that. But the 
rules put a responsibility on the lender to allow the customer a deferment of payment of 
arrears. In particular I cant see that theyve considered whether or not the proposal they 
put to Mr L would increase his monthly payments to unsustainable amounts.
Theyve said that they relied on what Mr L told them. Unfortunately, the recording of the 
call is no longer available. So Ive considered what theyve told me. They said their 
proposal was more generous than what theyd normally offer. So Ive taken the view that 
they didnt consider Mr Ls financial situation, only the impact on the account.And I dont think this is in line with the expectations set out in CONC7. So I dont think 
theyve treated him fairly. I wouldve expected FCA Automotive to be able to show how 
theyd considered his new income, his outgoings, and from this assess if Mr L could afford 
to repay an extra £100 every month.
Contact between the parties
FCA Automotive accepts that it made no contact with Mr L until they sent him an arrears 
notice in August 2020. They said this led to the first contact from Mr L since February 
2020, as the notice prompted him to call them.
I also note that Mr L says he wrote to FCA Automotive after the February 2020 call to 
tell them he wanted to terminate the agreement with immediate effect.
Its not in dispute that there was no contact between the parties from February 2020 to 
August 2020. And Mr L made no payments towards the agreement, but retained 
possession of the car.
I accept that FCA Automotive, like many firms, wouldve had difficulty operating due to 
the challenges faced during the pandemic. It wouldve been preferable if theyd been 
able to send arrears notices and default letters to Mr L during this period. But they didnt 
do this.
Ive no doubt Mr L was also having difficulties during the pandemic. But I have to consider 
whats reasonable here. Mr L says he wrote to FCA Automotive saying he wanted to 
terminate the agreement. They say they didnt receive his letters. If I accept that he did 
send the letters, I would not have expected him to stop making payments until the letters 
had been acknowledged.
His agreement was clear that missing payments would have serious consequences, and 
the default notices hed received in 2019 and in January 2020 set out what those 
consequences may be. Not making the payments led to a substantial amount of arrears on 
the account. Its for this reason I think it was reasonable for FCA Automotive to take steps 
to end the agreement after Mr L contacted them in August 2020, regardless of whether or 
not they received his letters.
Termination of the agreement
The agreement allows Mr L a right to end the agreement early. This is a statutory right 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It allows him to return the car and be liable for only 
half the amount owed. This amount is stated in the agreement as £9,166.
FCA Automotive explained this right to Mr L in the February 2020 phone call. And Mr L 
asked for this in the letter he sent in February 2020.
After they contacted Mr L in August 2020, they explained what he needed to do to settle the 
agreement. They said theyd sell the car, and then review the arrears balance. I can see that 
this is what theyve done, and limited the amount owed under the agreement to the amount 
stated in the early termination clause in the agreement.
FCA Automotive have treated the Voluntary Termination as if it had been made in October 
2020. Mr L says he asked to voluntary terminate the agreement in February 2020. He 
made no payments to FCA Automotive from February 2020 until the car was repossessed. 
I acknowledge that he said hed notified FCA Automotive of his request to voluntary 
terminate the agreement  but as I said above, that request had not been acknowledged, and he still owed them the amount stated in the voluntary termination clause of the 
agreement. So I think it was reasonable for FCA Automotive to expect him to continue 
making payments. The monthly payment amount they requested from February 2020 may 
have been unaffordable to him, but he could still have made the payments hed previously 
been paying.
So, for the reasons stated, I dont think it was unreasonable for FCA Automotive to 
terminate the agreement, repossess the car, and seek the outstanding amount owed from 
Mr L.
Putting things right
Ive explained above why I dont think FCA Automotive treated Mr L with forbearance and 
due consideration when he told them he was in financial difficulty. I can see that has 
caused distress to Mr L, and for that I think an award of £250 is appropriate.
However, the amount of arrears on the agreement has increased considerable because no 
payments were made after January 2020. And for the reasons Ive given, it was 
reasonable for them to sell the car and pursue him for the outstanding arrears. FCA 
Automotive should set out again for Mr L how the outstanding amount has been arrived at. 
They should also consider his current financial situation and treat him with appropriate 
forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to repay the arrears in a 
reasonable time. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. FCA Automotive said they had nothing 
further to add.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. He repeated his disappointment that the telephone 
call from February 2020 wasnt available. He said the attitude of FCA Automotive in that call 
was to put him into a corner, and he said this affected his decisions going forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above.
Putting things right
FCA Automotive should pay £250 to Mr L for the distress they caused him.
They should also set out again for Mr L how the outstanding amount has been arrived at. 
They should also consider his current financial situation and treat him with appropriate 
forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to repay the amount he owes in a 
reasonable time.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd should put things right as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman