DRN-4483217
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did after he
made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy
What happened
Mr F had a dispute with his former employer and made a claim on his legal expenses policy
for assistance. DAS accepted the claim and agreed Mr F could use his own solicitor to
pursue it. Subsequently it agreed terms of appointment with a different firm. In both cases
DAS agreed a rate of £100 an hour with Mr F being responsible for costs in excess of that.
In May 2021 Mr Fs solicitors contacted DAS and said they were discussing settlement with
his former employer. And to structure this in a tax efficient way they were intending to
apportion an element of the award as legal fees. They asked whether this would have any
implications for Mr Fs right to recover sums under his policy. DAS emailed the solicitors on
21 May and said I am writing to advise I have noted the agreement however we are unable
to comment further.
The following month the solicitors advised the claim had settled on the basis of that
agreement. They sought to recover the costs incurred which they thought were covered by
the policy. DAS said the settlement agreement included an amount of £164,000 for legal
fees. As that exceeded its liability under the policy (and there had been no agreement this
should be used to cover uninsured costs) it didnt agree to make any payment.
Our investigator said when Mr Fs solicitors got in touch with DAS it should have made clear
it didnt agree to the proposed settlement. And having reviewed the agreement and
associated correspondence she was satisfied the intention was for Mr F to receive the full
amount set out in that agreement as compensation. There was no mention of it covering
legal costs in the proposals from his former employer. So she thought it was fair DAS should
cover his legal costs up to the indemnity limit set out in his policy.
DAS didnt agree to do that. It said it was the agreement itself which should be considered
when deciding what was covered. And that specifically apportioned an element of the
settlement to legal costs.
That might have been done for reasons of tax efficiency but if it was intended the full amount
of compensation should have been awarded to Mr F that should have been made clear in
the agreement. It accepted it could have made its position clearer in May 2021 but it didnt
think it was reasonable of Mr Fs solicitors to have assumed from its response that it agreed
the proposed settlement.
Mr Fs solicitors also provided further comments. In summary they said:
There had been no discussion of legal fees being covered in their negotiations with the
other side and the final offer made of £525,000 in full and final settlement didnt include
these either. The wording of the settlement agreement didnt tell the whole story and
looked at as a whole it was clear agreement was for the payment of the full amount in
compensation.
The employer did agree to make payment in a tax efficient way which meant part of the
settlement was apportioned to legal fees meaning tax wasnt payable on that amount. It
believed those arrangements were entirely in line with the relevant legislation and met its
provisions. But it didnt accept this changed the underlying nature of the payment.
They had explained the arrangement to DAS prior to entering into the agreement and it
hadnt objected to this. If it was unhappy with the proposals it should have made that
clear.
They thought that in addition to payment of costs DAS should also pay interest on those
amounts and compensate Mr F for the costs hed incurred in pursuing a complaint about
these matters (for which it estimated costs of around £5,000) plus compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in October. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say DAS has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy. These say you must tell us if
anyone offers to settle a claim. The policy also requires the insured to take every step to
recover costs and expenses that we have to pay and must pay to us all such costs and
expenses that are recovered. And it says if you decide not to use the services of a
preferred law firm you will be responsible for any costs that fall outside our standard terms of
appointment and these will not be paid by us.
In this case Mr F did achieve a settlement of his claim. I think the first issue is whether DAS
are right to have concluded that settlement did include cover for his legal costs. And I
recognise that, as his representatives have said, this doesnt appear to have formed part of
the discussions prior to the settlement being agreed. The offer made through his employers
solicitors was for a total of £525,000 and didnt make any reference to that including costs.
However, I think its difficult to ignore the clear wording of the agreement itself. This set out
that the former employer will make a gross compensation payment of £361,000 (the
Compensation Payment).
The following paragraph then say it will also pay the individuals legal fees incurred in
obtaining advicein respect of the termination of the Individuals employment. It describes
that as the Legal Fees Payment. And it explains how those payments are to be provided to
the two firms involved with the case.
Mr Fs representatives argue settlement was simply agreed in this way to make it more tax
efficient. And theyve referenced s413A of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act. I
understand that provides tax isnt payable on certain legal costs incurred exclusively in
connection with the termination of the employees employment. Apportioning some of the
amounts payable to Mr F as legal costs therefore reduces the tax he needs to pay.
But I dont think this is simply a paper exercise as theyve suggested. HMRCs Employment
Income manual (available online) provides guidance on this section. It sets out a number of
conditions that need to be met for it to apply which include that the payment is applied to
discharge the bill for solicitors costs that the employee has incurred only in connection with
the termination of the employment. So for that payment to be free of tax it needs to
discharge the bill for solicitors costs (and as a result would be paid direct to the solicitor and
not to Mr F). And thats the basis on which both parties entered into the agreement.Taking into account the wording of the agreement, the relevant legislation and the guidance
issued by HMRC I dont think DAS has acted unreasonably in concluding that the payment in
this case wasnt simply compensation but contained an element that covered solicitors costs
Mr F had incurred. I dont think its reasonable to say the same payment can constitute legal
fees for tax purposes but represent compensation for the purposes of an insurance claim.
So Ive gone on to consider what happened when Mr Fs representatives got in touch with
DAS to let it know about the proposed agreement. Prior to it being agreed they contacted
DAS on 13 May 2021 and provided a copy of the agreement the following day. DAS
responded on 21 May and said I have noted the agreement however we are unable to
comment further. I think (and I understand DAS accept) it should have made its position
clearer. In my view its response should have included that as the agreement said Mr F had
recovered legal costs it would take those into account when calculating what liability it had
under the terms of his policy.
Ive thought about whether Mr F has lost out because DAS didnt do that. In particular
whether hed have entered into the agreement on different terms if its position had been
made clear. I dont think thats likely. His representatives say the agreement was completed
on 17 May 2021. Thats prior to DAS providing its response on 21 May. So even if DAS had
made its position clearer it wouldnt made a difference because the agreement had been
entered into prior to Mr Fs representatives receiving that response.
And for the reasons Ive explained I think DAS was entitled to conclude the agreement did
include an amount for legal costs incurred by Mr F. I think it was reasonable of it to take
those into account when considering what remaining liability it had for those costs. And DAS
says costs at the agreed £100 an hour from Mr Fs current and previous solicitors amounted
to around £135,500. As the amount recovered (£164,000) exceeded that it didnt think any
amounts under the policy were due to Mr F.
I dont think thats a fair way of approaching this issue. The policy definition of costs and
expenses includes all reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the appointed
representative and agreed by us in accordance with our Standard Terms of Appointment.
So I accept DAS would only be responsible for the reasonable and necessary costs incurred
by Mr F at the agreed rate of £100 an hour.
And as Ive already outlined the policy also says you musttake every step to recover costs
and expenses that we have to pay and must pay to us all such costs and expenses that are
recovered. I dont think theres any suggestion theres been any failing on the part of Mr F or
his representative to recover costs they should have done. In fact as costs arent normally
recoverable in Employment Tribunal cases theyve arguably obtained more than would
normally be expected.
The difficulty in this case is the costs and expenses Mr F incurred were much greater than
the amount DAS agreed to pay because the hourly rates charged by his solicitor were
significantly more than £100 an hour. I understand Mr F was therefore responsible for
topping this up. 
And while the settlement agreement awarded £164,000 for legal costs it didnt apportion 
these between those for which Mr F was responsible and those which were the responsibility 
of DAS. So it isnt clear what amounts awarded under that agreement would be costs and 
expenses that DAS has to pay and so, in line with the terms of the policy, could reasonably 
be used to offset its liability.
Ive considered the terms of appointment Mr Fs representatives signed (the Working
Together document) but I dont think that assists either. It says For Claims in theEmployment Tribunal we will be liable for your Costs at the rate of £100 plus VAT per hour,
unless you recover any such sums from the opponent. Mr F has recovered sums from his
employer but the question remains as to how those should be apportioned between his costs
and those for which DAS is responsible.
Ive thought about what the right way of approaching this issue would be. In the
circumstances of this case, I think it would be fair to apportion costs recovered on the basis
of the respective liabilities of the parties for those costs. And I think the agreed hourly rates
provide a reasonable starting point in relation to this. Theres no dispute that DASs
contribution to those costs was fixed at £100 an hour. So Ive looked at the hourly rates
charged by the solicitors who acted for Mr F.
Theres significant variation in those rates depending on which firm and fee earner was
carrying out the work. I dont think any calculation here can be an exact science. But looking
at the overall figures I think its fair to apply an overall hourly rate of £500 which represents a
relatively conservative estimate of the amounts charged. Mr Fs contribution to that would
therefore be £400 an hour.
On that basis the costs awarded in the settlement agreement would be allocated on an
80:20 split in favour of Mr F. That means £32,800 would go against those costs and
expenses incurred by DAS. As a result I dont think DASs liability has been extinguished by
the award for legal costs made in the settlement agreement.
I appreciate the policy also says if you settle a claim or withdraw it without our 
agreementwe can withdraw cover and we will be entitled to reclaim from you any costs
and expenses paid by us. I recognise DAS didnt provide agreement to the settlement in this
case.
But the wording of that term refers to you which the policy defines as the insured (so Mr F).
And I understand this claim was settled based on advice from his appointed representatives.
In any case DAS was aware of the proposed settlement and didnt take appropriate action in
relation to it. And Ive already explained what I think it should have done here. So I dont
think it would be fair of DAS to use this term as grounds to turn down the claim.
Putting things right
DAS will need to reconsider the costs claimed by Mr F in line with the policy terms and will
be entitled to take into account the requirement to only pay reasonable and necessary costs.
Once DAS has calculated its outstanding liability it will be entitled to subtract the £32,800
apportionment from any amounts then owed to Mr F. And it can then apply any remaining
terms and conditions of the policy including of course the indemnity limit. I also accept that
Mr F will have been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of his claim being
incorrectly turned down and I think DAS should pay him £200 in recognition of that.
I appreciate Mr Fs representatives think interest should be paid on any amounts due to him.
However, under our rules Im only able to do so where Im making a money award (for
example where were directing a business to make a payment for financial loss). In this case
my direction is for DAS to reconsider the claim so that isnt something Im able to do.
Ive also considered whether DAS should reimburse Mr W for the legal costs he incurred as
his representatives suggest. Our rules do allow us to direct a business to cover some or all
of the costs reasonably incurred by the complainant in respect of a complaint (and include
interest on that amount).
But the rules also make clear that awards of costs are unlikely to be common because inmost cases complainants should not need professional advisers to bring their complaint to
our service. In this case I understand why Mr F may have wanted to seek professional
assistance in bringing his complaint but I dont think that was something he needed to do. So
I dont think this is an appropriate case in which to make an award of costs against DAS.
Reponses to my provisional decision
DAS said it had concerns as to how the figures for its contribution had been calculated. It 
asked for more time to discuss this with cost assessors but didnt then provide any further 
comments by the extended deadline.
Mr Fs representatives did provide detailed comments. In summary they said:
It was common practice in employment claims for termination payments to be reduced 
and allocated against legal costs and this simply constituted a relabelling for tax 
purposes. It didnt mean those legal costs had actually been recovered. And all monies 
paid under the agreement were paid to it in the first instance.
It thought accepting costs had been recovered allowed DAS to avoid its responsibilities 
under the policy and said if the position was reversed (so Mr F had agreed an amount for 
legal costs in advance but the settlement agreement allocated the full sum to 
compensation) DAS wouldnt have paid a claim for legal costs in that situation either.
It said DAS had the opportunity over four working days to clarify its position but failed to 
do so. And that followed on from previous examples where DAS had been unresponsive 
to settlement requests. It said if DAS had made its position clear in this case Mr F might 
have considered other tax mitigation strategies.
It said the settlement agreement did apportion costs with an amount being allocated to 
uninsured fees incurred by Mr Fs former solicitors which were separate to those claimed 
under the policy. It thought these should be disregarded from any calculation.
Costs claimed under the policy in March 2021 by the former solicitors werent included in 
the costs award made under the agreement either. So they shouldnt be taken into 
account when considering what costs Mr F had recovered under that agreement.  
It also disagreed that an 80:20 split was appropriate when allocating the legal costs the 
settlement agreement had awarded. It said this didnt take into account that not all of the 
legal costs it had incurred were claimable under the policy. It thought this should be 
reflected in the calculation and set out how it thought this should be done. 
It didnt the proposed compensation of £200 was enough and drew attention to poor 
service provided by DAS throughout the history of the claim. And it thought it was 
relevant that this was an expensive policy aimed at high net worth individuals. 
It said Mr F needed to seek professional help in order to level the playing field when 
engaging with DAS and it wasnt reasonable to expect him to pursue a claim of this 
nature without that. It thought he should be awarded the costs hed incurred in doing so 
and said not doing so would provide no incentive for DAS to take complaints seriously.It didnt understand why Mr F shouldnt be awarded interest on any amounts paid under 
the policy given the delay in handing his claim. It said it was unsupportable to draw a 
distinction between a money award and a direction to reconsider the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr Fs representatives consider the wording of the agreement simply 
represented a relabelling for tax purposes and didnt mean legal costs were actually 
recovered. And Ive taken into account that the offer made through his employers
solicitors was for a total of £525,000 and didnt make any reference to that including costs.
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Ive also taken into account the relevant 
legislation, guidance issued by HMRC and the agreement itself. I think its worth restating 
the plain wording of that agreement which says the Legal Fees Payment covers the 
individuals legal fees incurred in obtaining advicein respect of the termination of the 
Individuals employment. And while I note the comments Mr Fs representatives have made 
about the view DAS might take on an alternative situation its the claim Mr F actually made 
Im considering here. 
And the question for me is whether it was unreasonable of DAS to conclude the payment in 
this case wasnt simply compensation but contained an element that covered solicitors costs 
Mr F had incurred. For the reasons Ive explained I dont think it was. I continue to feel its 
difficult to sustain an argument that the same payment can constitute legal fees for tax 
purposes but represent compensation for the purposes of an insurance claim.
Ive therefore given further consideration to the points Mr Fs representatives have made 
about DASs actions when it got in touch about the proposed settlement in May 2021. I 
appreciate Mr F was under pressure to make a decision about this. I also accept DAS didnt 
give a clear answer when it responded on 21 May. But I dont think Mr F would have done 
anything different if DAS had done so. 
Even if DAS had acted as it should, it would still have needed time to consider its position in 
relation to the agreement. And Mr F entered into the agreement on 17 May which in my view 
is before he could reasonably have expected a response from DAS. I understand why he did 
that given the pressures his representatives have referenced. But that means even if DAS 
had provided a clearer response it wouldnt have made a difference because Mr F would 
already have entered into the agreement prior to that response being received. 
Turning to the costs awarded under the settlement agreement I appreciate it does make 
reference to costs incurred by both Mr Fs current and former solicitors. And Mr Fs 
representatives have said in relation to the costs incurred by his former solicitors it only 
covered uninsured costs. It therefore argues those costs should be disregarded in any 
apportionment between Mr F and DAS (and any sums due to DAS shouldnt be allocated 
against the insured costs claimed by the former solicitors). 
It argued the remaining policy indemnity should then be split initially on the 80:20 basis I 
suggested but then with a further adjustment on a two third to one third basis in favour of 
DAS to reflect the split between insured and non-insured legal work it had carried out. 
I dont think thats the right way of approaching this issue. First, Im not persuaded applying 
an 80:20 split to any remaining policy indemnity limit is appropriate. What I said in my 
provisional decision was this should be applied to the costs awarded in the settlement agreement. And that 80:20 split was based on an assessment of the hourly rates charged by 
the firms (and fee earners) involved. 
Mr Fs representatives have suggested a further split should then take place to reflect the 
difference between insured and uninsured work carried out and say this should be done on a 
two third to one third split in favour of DAS. But I dont see thats appropriate. The 
apportionment Ive suggested already recognises theres a split between uninsured and 
insured costs and uses the agreed hourly rates for those different elements as a way of 
establishing the respective liabilities of the parties for those costs. 
I accept, as Ive said, that this isnt an exact science but I dont think the approach proposed 
by Mr Fs representatives would result in a fairer outcome. His representatives have 
acknowledged themselves that their split represents a rough and ready figure. And theyve 
applied this split to the amount remaining under the policy indemnity which I dont think is the 
right approach. I think the apportionment Ive proposed remains appropriate. 
Mr Fs representatives also say costs awarded under the settlement agreement as they 
relate to Mr Fs former solicitors only relate to uninsured costs. So these should be 
disregarded from any calculation. I agree in principle if it was clear an element of costs 
awarded under the settlement agreement solely related to uninsured costs they should be 
disregarded when deciding to what extent DASs outstanding liability had been reduced by 
the costs awarded. 
But his representatives havent provided any further evidence in support of their position. 
And the agreement itself doesnt say the allocation of any award to his former solicitors 
would only cover uninsured costs. It says the Employer will also pay the individuals legal 
fees in obtaining advice from [previous and current legal representative]. 
I appreciate Mr Fs former solicitors submitted a claim to DAS for costs they believed were 
covered under his policy but that doesnt mean those costs couldnt also be ones that were 
in part recovered under the settlement agreement.  I also find it contradictory for Mr Fs 
representatives to argue legal costs werent recovered under the settlement agreement at 
the same time as saying it specifically covered only uninsured costs from his former solicitor. 
So Im not persuaded to change my position on this issue. 
Turning to the compensation I suggested I note the points made about the service provided 
during the history of the claim. But its the impact of DASs decision to turn down his claim 
that Im considering in this decision. Mr F hasnt provided any more information about how 
that impacted him so I continue to feel the £200 I previously recommended is appropriate. 
And our rules say awards of costs are unlikely to be common because in most cases 
complainants should not need professional advisers to bring their complaint to our service. I 
understand why Mr F wanted to seek professional help but I dont think thats a cost he 
needed to incur in order to raise his complaint with DAS or with our service. So I dont think 
this is a case in which an award for costs would be appropriate. 
Mr Fs representatives have also queried why Im not able to award interest on any payment 
that DAS makes. My power to award interest is provided by s229 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 which provides:
229 Awards.

(2) If a complaint which has been dealt with under the scheme is determined in
favour of the complainant, the determination may include
(a) an award against the respondent of such amount as the ombudsman considersfair compensation for loss or damage suffered by the complainant (a money
award);

(8) A money award
(a) may provide for the amount payable under the award to bear interest at a rate
and as from a date specified in the award; and
It follows that Im only able to award interest on a money award (for example where were
directing a business to make a payment for financial loss). That isnt the case here.
Putting things right
DAS will need to reconsider the costs claimed by Mr F in line with the policy terms and will
be entitled to take into account the requirement to only pay reasonable and necessary costs.
Once DAS has calculated its outstanding liability it will need to subtract from that the amount 
which relates to its costs recovered as part of the settlement agreement. It should calculate 
that on the basis of an 80:20 split in Mr Fs favour (meaning its recovery would be £32,800).
DAS can then apply any remaining terms and conditions of the policy including of course the 
indemnity limit. 
DAS will also need to pay Mr F £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused as a result of his claim being incorrectly turned down.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited will 
need to put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
James Park
Ombudsman