DRN-2222653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank, 
(Northern Bank) mis-sold them two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies with two 
mortgages (called home loans by Northern Bank) they took out in 1996. They want it to 
refund them all the premiums they paid for the policies, plus interest.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think 
that Northern Bank had mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs S and didnt recommend that it should 
give them any money back. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review their case, so it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. 
Ive taken this into account in deciding what to do in Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs S and Northern Bank have told us or sent us 
about it and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below. 
Mr and Mrs S took out a number of loans and mortgages with Northern Bank over the years. 
Theyve made several complaints about these. For clarity, this decision is only about the 
mortgages they took out in 1996 and repaid in 2003  the others will be considered 
separately. This means Ive had to discount some of the things Mr and Mrs S have told us if 
theyve related to other loans, as I can only base my decision on the circumstances of this 
particular complaint.
There arent many documents from Mr and Mrs Ss actual loans. Thats unfortunate but 
understandable given they were taken out nearly 25 years ago  and repaid in 2003, about 
17 years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep paperwork indefinitely. But that does 
mean the information Ive been given is incomplete in some respects. However I do have 
enough information to reach a fair decision. 
We dont have the actual mortgage paperwork completed by Mr and Mrs S. But Northern 
Bank has sent us a sample of the forms they used at the time 
In 1996 Mr and Mrs S took out two home loans with Northern Bank. The repayments for both 
came to about £225. At the same time they bought two PPI policies  each of which cost 
£18.72 per month and each of which would have paid out about £300. That could have been 
for up to 12 months at a time and there could be several claims over a period of time. The 
£300 benefit is estimated from the prices Northern Bank says it charged at the time. 
Northern Bank says its likely it sold one of the policies to Mr S and the other to Mrs S  
because thats how it sold PPI if both parties to a joint mortgage wanted cover.
Mr and Mrs S think only Mr S was covered, because Northern Bank said only the first named 
person on a joint loan could buy cover. That may well be the case for some loans, but 
Northern Bank sent us a sample of the type of application form it used in 1996 for 
mortgages. It says this is the sort of form Mr and Mrs S would have completed at the time. I 
havent seen anything that suggests Mr and Mrs S were treated any differently, so I think it 
very likely the form they completed was like the sample. On the paperwork theres a 
separate section about PPI, where they are asked if they want to buy it  and there are yes 
and no boxes to tick. The form goes on to explain that if joint borrowers both want cover they 
had to set up two separate policies  and theres space to say if this is what is wanted. Next 
to these questions is space for both applicants to sign to confirm their choices. 
I dont think its likely Northern Bank would have set up the PPI policies unless the form had 
been completed to say that Mr and Mrs S both wanted cover and signed to confirm this. 
Indeed Mr and Mrs S havent said they didnt sign: but they have said they queried the need 
for the PPI at the time but were persuaded to take it, and thought buying the PPI increased 
their chances of getting the mortgages they wanted. Theyve also told us they didnt really 
check the paperwork  either when they signed the applications or later when their mortgage 
and PPI paperwork was sent to them They say all of this means they didnt really have a 
choice about buying it. 
I accept that Northern Bank recommended the PPI  but that in itself doesnt mean the PPI 
was mis-sold. And I cant be sure what exactly was said in the meeting by either party  we 
only have Mr and Mrs Ss recollections. In these circumstances Im more persuaded by the 
paperwork than I am by recollections from many years ago, because these can 
understandably be uncertain after a long period of time. The sample forms Ive seen contain 
nothing that says the PPI is compulsory. I understand also that Mr and Mrs S paid for the 
two policies separately from the mortgage payments  so they must have completed 
authorisations for this money to be collected from their bank account(s).
Taking everything into consideration, I think Mr and Mrs S were given enough information to 
know they didnt have to buy the PPI.
Northern Bank has told us that it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs S and advised them to 
take it. This meant that it had to check that the policy was right for them and tell them about 
it clearly and fairly so they could decide if they wanted it. 
As there is no record of the meeting, I cant tell what questions, if any, Northern Bank asked 
Mr and Mrs S about their situation and potential need for insurance before it recommended 
PPI to them. So Ive looked at the policys features and what I know about Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time, to see if it was reasonable for Northern Bank to make its 
recommendation. 
It seems each policy covered one borrower  so both Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances are 
relevant. The policies sold at the time had eligibility rules, which both Mr and Mrs S met, and 
neither of them seem to have been caught by any of the main exclusions and limitations. Mr 
and Mrs S seem to have been able to afford the premiums for each policy and if they had 
lost either income the relevant policy would have covered, from what Ive seen, the 
payments for both mortgages.
Mr and Mrs S did both have fairly generous sick pay if they were off work because of illness, 
but the policy would have paid out over and above this entitlement and could have lasted for 
longer. It would also have paid out if either Mr or Mrs S was made redundant. Mr and Mrs S have told us that they had sufficient money to pay the mortgage(s) and say the 
fact that they repaid the mortgage(s) in full about seven years later supports this claim. Ive 
seen the bank statements from around this time and it does seem Mr and Mrs S had enough 
money to repay the mortgages. Looking at the bank statements provided I can see a large 
deposit was put into their bank account and several loans repaid all at once. Mr and Mrs S 
havent said where this additional money came from  but they havent said it was money 
they had available when they first took out the mortgages, so this doesnt mean the PPI 
policies were mis-sold.
Overall I think Mr and Mrs S had a potential need for PPI and it could have been useful for 
them. I think it was reasonable for Northern Bank to recommend the policy to them. 
I accept that its quite possible that Northern Bank didnt explain everything to Mr and Mrs S 
as well as it should have done. But Im satisfied that it gave them a choice about the policy, 
that they werent affected by its main exclusions or limitations, that they had a potential need 
for the cover and could afford it. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have decided not to 
buy it even if Northern Bank had explained everything properly. I dont think Northern Bank 
mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman