DRN-1287009
 
The complaint
Miss O complains about money being deducted from her account after she made a 
chargeback request.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss O says she only received two and not three items in an order from a merchant. 
She used her debit card and raised a chargeback request with Barclays. Although it 
refunded £189.90 to her account on 19 February 2019, this amount was later 
deducted from her account on 8 May 2019 when her chargeback request was 
unsuccessful and closed.
Its not for me to determine if all the items were delivered or not. But I can look at how 
Barclays has handled her chargeback request and made its decision to close it. 
In this case I think Barclays has investigated matters reasonably. It contacted the 
merchant and has taken account of what the parties have said and the information 
and documentation supplied by the merchant. 
In order to agree a chargeback refund Barclays has to be satisfied that the item 
wasnt delivered. In this case its explained that the available evidence shows all 
products were delivered and signed for on 23 January 2019 at 10.05. And as there 
is sufficient evidence all goods were sent and received, the chargeback request has 
been closed.
Miss O may disagree with Barclays interpretation of the evidence and decision to 
close the chargeback request but I dont think its acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when deciding to do so.
I also think Barclays adequately explained things. Miss O was sent a letter on 19 
February 2019 which said the refund of £198.90 was temporary pending the outcome 
of its investigation. And when it later closed the chargeback request it was entitled to 
deduct this money from her account.
Barclays has also already credited Miss Os account with £10 for her call costs as 
she was unhappy she had to spend an hour on the phone. Thats fair.
Miss O remains unhappy as she says she has neither the item she paid for, nor the 
chargeback refund for its cost. I understand her frustration. But taking everything into 
account I dont think on balance that Barclays has done anything wrong. And I dont 
think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do anything more.
 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman