DRN-2949131
The complaint
Mr E complains that James Hay Administration Company accepted a pension application 
without sufficient identity checks. He says this enabled a third party to invest his pension 
funds without his knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mr E says he was advised by an unauthorised adviser (Mr C) that he could receive higher 
returns if he transferred his personal pension elsewhere. Mr E says he was given paperwork 
to sign and a transfer was arranged by the adviser to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) with James Hay in September 2013. James Hay sent a confirmation to Mr E that the 
SIPP had been opened on 27 September 2013 and another letter that the transfer value 
from his personal pension of £54,729 had been received in the SIPP. 
A couple of weeks later, James Hay received an application to open a stockbroking account 
with Strand Capital together with a passport copy and bank statement from Mr E. The 
application form was accompanied by a letter requesting to pay £50,000 from the SIPP to 
Strand Capital. Both documents seemed to have been signed by Mr E.
James Hay sent Mr E two follow up letters. On 18 October they let him know that the 
necessary documents had been sent to Strand Capital to establish an account and that once 
they had received confirmation from them £50,000 would be sent to them as instructed by 
Mr E. A second letter was sent on 23 October to let Mr E know that £50,000 had now been 
transferred to Strand Capital. 
Strand Capital subsequently invested Mr Es funds into a corporate bond with Optima 
Worldwide Group (OWG). 
Mr E complained to James Hay in September 2014. He said the first he knew about his new 
pension arrangements was when he received a letter from James Hay in April 2014 asking 
him to confirm receipt of their letter of 23 September 2013. He asked for further information 
about who had arranged this plan and requested further details about the investments.
James Hay sent Mr E all the correspondence on file. Mr E raised concerns at the time that 
the application suggested he had arranged this directly with James Hay. No financial adviser 
details were recorded on the SIPP application form and nobody received any commission 
from this transfer. Mr E says this was all arranged by Mr C and he was puzzled why his 
details werent included on the form. He later indicated that Mr C seems to be connected to 
OWG. 
Mr E also said he never wrote the instruction letter to pay £50,000 to Strand Capital or 
signed the application form. He says he never heard of this company. Mr E noted his first 
name had been spelled incorrectly on the form and letter which he says confirms it wasnt 
him who completed this. Also, the accompanying letter was undated and the address noted 
on it was a property he rented, but which he never used for correspondence. The addresses 
on the letter and the application form did not match. He says Mr C must have sent these 
documents fraudulently without his knowledge. He also told James Hay he didnt want to be 
in a high-risk investment.
In a letter dated January 2015, James Hay noted that Mr E had said he didnt want to be in a 
high-risk investment.  So they strongly recommended he should seek financial advice from 
an authorised adviser to review whether the SIPP and the OWG investment were suitable for 
him. Mr E told this service later that he didnt trust financial advisers any longer and so he 
left his plan where it was.
In 2018 the value of his OWG investment showed as zero and he was informed by James 
Hay it might be worthless. In 2019, Mr E complained to this service about James Hay. He 
thinks they should have done further identity checks due to those inconsistencies on the 
application form and investment instruction back in 2013. And if they had done, the 
investment and subsequent losses could have been prevented. He said he didnt complain 
before as he hadnt suffered any losses until more recently.
James Hay responded and said:
The signatures on the SIPP and Strand Capital application forms as well as the 
instruction letter are all similar to a point that they were satisfied they were all signed 
by the same person
The undated letter wasnt acted on in isolation. It was sent with a signed and dated 
Strand Capital Application form which also said £50,000 should be paid.
They didnt think the minor spelling difference in Mr Es first name on the application 
and letter was sufficient to reasonably refuse the instruction
They didnt hold the address on the letter on their records, but the address on the 
Strand Capital application form was validated by the bank statement which was 
provided. They also performed an electronic check of this address using an 
electronic search facility. 
They also sent follow up correspondence to this address. If the set up of the account 
and the transfer of £50,000 wasnt something Mr E was expecting, they would have 
expected him to raise concerns immediately and not nearly a year later.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. Generally, he didnt think it would be fair to 
hold James Hay accountable for Mr Es investment losses. He said it could be argued that 
the misspelling of his first name should have raised some suspicions and a clarifying letter 
could have been sent. But James Hay had sent two letters to Mr Es correct address 
informing him about the transfer to Strand Capital. And at this point the OWG investment 
had not yet been made. So Mr E reasonably could have mitigated his losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
I cant see any evidence that the SIPP and transfer application from the personal pension 
should have caused James Hay any suspicions. Mr E didnt need an adviser to do this and 
so the lack of details from a financial adviser on the form wouldnt have been unusual. They 
were also provided with a bank statement and a passport copy for Mr E. It was to be 
expected that after a transfer a customer would make an investment through the SIPP. So I 
also dont think receiving a request to open a stockbroking account from Mr E a couple of 
weeks later, would have reasonably caused concerns. Its correct that the letter and the stockbroking application form held different addresses. 
However, James Hay had been provided with a bank statement for Mr E which matched the 
address on the Strand Capital application form as well as the SIPP application. They also did 
an electronic check on the address. And this was the only address they used for when 
writing to him. It was Mr Es parents address which he has confirmed was the one he used 
for correspondence and which was the same address his personal pension provider held for 
him too. I think their actions here were reasonable.
The misspelling of Mr Es first name was subtle but nevertheless should have been spotted 
by James Hay. They could have done further identity checks for Mr E which likely would 
have included sending him a letter to his parents address. However, on balance I dont think 
this would have made a difference here or led to Mr E not making the investment. I say this 
for the following reasons:
Given that the Strand Capital application form and accompanying letter in 2013 misspelled 
Mr Es first name I think its likely these were written/completed by Mr C on his behalf. Its 
possible Mr C also signed the documents and falsified Mr Es signature. However, I agree 
with the investigator here who said its more likely that Mr E was simply presented with the 
papers (just as he says he was with the SIPP paperwork) and signed them without paying 
much attention to them. 
Mr E said he was inexperienced when it came to investments and trusted Mr C. Around the 
same time (in October 2013) Mr E also made another investment through a different adviser 
which completely failed. So it seems that at the time he was trusting advisers to invest into 
non-standard investments. Whilst Mr E said he never heard about Strand Capital and never 
agreed to the investment, I think its just as likely that he simply followed what Mr C 
suggested and signed the necessary paperwork. 
Mr E says he only knew about his SIPP and subsequent investments when he received a 
letter from James Hay in April 2014 asking to confirm receipt of their letter in September 
2013 and to verify his address. I have not seen a copy of this letter. However, Mr E said he 
received this letter at his parents address, which is the same that he used for 
correspondence in 2013. So on balance I think he also would have received all the other 
letters James Hay sent to him in September and October 2013. They would have made him 
aware that the SIPP had been opened and that £50,000 was about to be transferred to 
Strand Capital. 
I think if he had been completely unaware that money was about to be invested on his 
behalf, I think he likely would have contacted James Hay to stop the transaction at this point. 
Mr E also acknowledged that he did sign some papers for the SIPP. So I find it difficult to 
believe that he wouldnt have known or queried with Mr C what happened to his pension 
money for nearly a whole year.
Mr Es other investment failed in September 2014 and this was the time when Mr E first 
complained to James Hay. So on balance I think its more likely Mr E did know about the 
SIPP and that money had been invested all along but decided to take a closer look at what 
exactly had happened when his other investment failed. When he was given all the 
necessary information by James Hay and was strongly recommended to seek financial 
advice from an authorised and regulated adviser, he decided not to follow this advice and 
made the decision to keep the investments as they were.
If James Hay had made further enquiries with Mr E in 2013 to ensure it was him making the 
transfer request to Strand Capital, I think on balance he would have confirmed that he was in 
agreement with this. I have sympathy for Mr Es situation. However, in these particular circumstances, I dont 
think James Hay not noticing some inaccuracies in the application form mean they are 
responsible for the losses Mr E suffered.
Like the investigator already explained, Mr E might be able to make a claim through the 
FSCS against Strand Capital.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2021.
Nina Walter 
Ombudsman