DRN-2562140
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Miss H is being represented in this complaint by Mrs H. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision will only refer to Miss H.
What happened
In June 2019, Miss H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Northridge. She paid a deposit of £5,000 and the agreement was for £3,481.24 over 24 
months; with monthly repayments of £145.01. At the time the car was just over three years 
old and had done 18,901 miles. 
Miss H, a self-employed driving instructor, started having problems with the car. And, in 
September 2019, it was returned to the supplying dealership for repair. Several attempts to 
repair the car were unsuccessful and Miss H asked Northridge if she could reject the car. 
Northridge didnt agree to this, but the supplying dealership offered to buy the car back and 
settle the outstanding finance. This took place in July 2020.
Between September 2019 and July 2020 Miss H hired an alternate car so she could carry on 
working. And she paid both the rental payments and the monthly payments to Northridge 
during this time.
While Miss H had accepted the dealerships offer, she wasnt happy that her consequential 
losses werent being considered. Northridge said that Miss H had accepted the dealerships 
offer in full and final settlement of her complaint, and they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. So, Miss H brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied to Miss H. And she thought we were able to consider Miss Hs consequential losses 
that arose directly from Miss H not having use of the car. While she didnt think this should 
include the costs of cancelled lessons/tests (as these couldve been rescheduled), or the 
cost of a replacement windscreen (as this wasnt as a direct result of Miss H not having 
access to the car she was financing); she did think that Northridge should pay interest on the 
amounts Miss H had already been refunded, some insurance costs, and the difference 
between the rental payments for the alternative car and the monthly payments to Northridge.
Northridge disagreed with the investigator, and they maintained their view that Miss H had 
accepted the dealerships offer in full and final settlement of her complaint. Miss H also 
disagreed and said it hadnt been possible to reschedule the missed lessons. She also said 
shed been caused a significant amount of distress by the situation, and thought she should 
receive an additional £2,500 in compensation.
An ombudsman colleague reviewed the case in full and, on 8 November 2021, he issued a 
provisional decision. In that decision he said:
Miss Hs contract with Northridge Finance is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and 
one which our service is able to consider a complaint about. Under this type of agreement 
Northridge Finance is responsible for a complaint about the quality of the goods.
The relevant legislation to this complaint says that the goods supplied need to be of 
satisfactory quality, which is defined as the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and 
other relevant circumstances.
From whats been said it seems that all parties agree that the goods Miss H was supplied 
with were not of satisfactory quality. I understand thats why the supplying dealer made an 
offer to buy back the car and settle the outstanding finance. However, in this case Northridge 
Finance has argued that it wouldnt be appropriate for us to consider Miss Hs complaint 
because she already accepted an offer to settle it.
should we consider this complaint
Our rules allow me to use my discretion to dismiss cases without considering their merits if I 
believe that it would be appropriate. One such circumstance where Id consider doing that, is 
where a consumer had already accepted an offer of compensation in full and final settlement 
of their complaint. But Id need to be satisfied that the consumer was aware that the 
acceptance of the offer effectively precluded them from bringing a subsequent claim for 
compensation to this service. All things considered, Im not satisfied thats the case here. Ill 
explain why.
The evidence Northridge Finance has provided shows that following a conversation with 
Miss H in August 2020, the supplying dealer emailed her to offer to take back the car, refund 
her deposit and pay off her finance agreement.
Ive seen that Miss H had a number of subsequent emails with the supplying dealer about 
the offer it had made. During those emails Miss H made it clear that her claim for 
consequential losses had not been addressed. Although ultimately the supplying dealer 
offered to also refund some costs relating to diagnostic tests Miss H had paid for.
I would have expected Northridge Finance, or the supplying dealer if it had been acting in 
agent for Northridge Finance as its suggested, to have made the consequences of Miss Hs 
acceptance explicit. Especially as Ive seen that Miss H emailed the supplying dealer 
expressing concern she may not be able to make a subsequent claim for consequential 
losses to Northridge Finance if she accepted the offer as shed no longer own the car.
However, with specific regard to the language used relating to the offer and the context in 
which it was provided, Im not satisfied that it was made clear to Miss H that her acceptance 
of the offer would preclude her from making a claim for consequential losses against 
Northridge Finance.
I also would have expected the offer to have made reference to the possibility of referring the 
matter to our service. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Miss H believed that the offer 
shed accepted was simply an offer made by the supplying dealer to buy back the car, and 
the offer was not made in full and final settlement of her complaint about the quality of the 
car she was supplied with.Given this, Im satisfied that Miss H likely would not have accepted the offer if it had been 
made clear to her that it could prevent her bringing a subsequent claim or complaint about 
losses against Northridge Finance. As such, I wont be using my discretion to dismiss this 
complaint. Ill now go on to consider whether the recommendations our investigator made 
were fair.
Miss Hs financial loss
As Ive mentioned above, I think all parties accept that the car Miss H was supplied with was 
not of satisfactory quality, which is why the supplying dealer bought it back. Thats the 
conclusion our investigator reached and Northridge Finance did not disagree.
That being said, Im mindful that Northridge Finance has given us very little evidence relating 
to the merits of this case. Its submissions have simply focused on whether its a case I 
should dismiss. My assessment of whats happened therefore relies heavily on Miss Hs 
version of events, but Northridge Finance will have the opportunity to submit further 
evidence in response to my provisional decision.
The car Miss H was supplied with was around three years old and had covered 
approximately 18,000 miles. I therefore would not have expected it to have been as durable 
as a brand new car, but Id have relatively high expectations of it in terms of durability, given 
it was relatively young and had a low mileage for its age.
From whats been submitted it seems that Miss H had reported issues with the car within a 
few months of taking it, which ultimately led to the significant repairs  including the removal 
and perhaps replacement of the engine  which ultimately dont seem to have remedied the 
issues. And it seems that Miss H was without the car for around 11 months whilst repairs 
were carried out. Based on what Ive seen I think its clear that the car Miss H was supplied 
with was not of satisfactory quality, so, I think it wouldve been fair to allow Miss H to reject 
the car and she ought to be compensated for any financial loss shes incurred.
In circumstances where a consumer rejects a car because its not of satisfactory quality, 
wed usually expect the finance to be unwound and for their deposit to be returned, along 
with simple interest at 8% per year. Wed also consider making awards for impeded use, 
other financial loss which arose as the result of the goods not being of satisfactory quality, as 
well as compensation for trouble and upset caused. Wed usually award simple interest to 
the sums which consumers had already paid but were being returned.
In this case, Miss H had already had her deposit returned as well as some costs shed 
incurred in diagnosing fault with the car. I agree with our investigator interest ought to have 
been paid on those sums. So, Ill require Northridge Finance to do that.
Turning to Miss Hs request for consequential losses, I agree with our investigators 
approach to the loss of earnings Miss H has claimed for. Like our investigator, Im not 
persuaded that Miss H lost out on work as a direct result of what happened. I accept she 
may have had to cancel lessons but based on whats been said Im not persuaded that it 
wasnt possible for them to have been rescheduled.
I also agree that it wouldnt be fair to require Northridge Finance to pay Miss H the cost she 
incurred in repairing a hire car. I accept Miss Hs point about the cost to repair the same 
damage on the car Northridge Finance providing lending on may have been less due to 
specific insurance products she had relating to that car, but nonetheless I cant fairly 
conclude that this cost is a direct consequence of being deprived of the use of that car.I accept Miss H has a valid claim for the cost she incurred in renting another car whilst the 
one this complaint relates to was being repaired. If Miss H had not done this it ultimately 
wouldve meant that she could not work, so I think its reasonable she took steps to procure 
a car which would allow her to work.
Our investigator made a deduction from the sums she asked Northridge Finance to pay Miss 
H in respect of rental costs on the understanding that Miss H had not been making her 
monthly loan payments, which is something she always needed to do. But based on the 
statement of account weve been provided, it seems that Miss H made all the payments she 
was required to up until the car was returned. I therefore find that Miss H should be refunded 
for the full rental costs of alternative cars, and simple interest at 8% per year should be 
added to those sums. Ill detail the specific costs Im minded to require Northridge Finance to 
pay in the summary of my findings.
Miss H also made a number of additional claims in respect of insurance costs as well as 
administrative costs associated with the rental of alternative cars. Our investigator made a 
reasonable point that Miss H always would have needed to pay a sum to insure a car, 
regardless of whether its the one this complaint is about. I agree, and in summary, I intend 
to require Northridge Finance to pay the majority of the costs Miss H has asked for. But, 
there are some I wont, and Ill explain why.
Miss H has provided evidence to show that she paid two sums to swap her insurance policy 
to a hire car. Whilst I accept that Northridge Finance should pay any administrative fees in 
relation to this, Im not satisfied that it should pay any increase in premium. I say this 
because I dont know exactly why the premiums seem to have increased. I can see that Miss 
H paid sums of £205.88 and £278.27 in respect of swapping her insurance policy, but it 
could be the case that her premium increased due to the type of car she chose to rent for 
example. Given that I cant fairly say that the increase in premium was a direct result of 
being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, I dont intend to require it to be 
repaid.
Additionally, Miss H has asked to be compensated with £2,500 for inconvenience, distress 
and stress caused. I accept that what happened wouldve been a worrying time for Miss H 
and she ought to be compensated for it, especially as it seems the situation went on for 
around 11 months. That being said, I think its fair to say that Miss H took reasonable steps 
to mitigate the impact the situation had on her and her business. I intend to reward the 
majority of the costs she would have incurred, as well as interest on sums already paid, so 
she shouldnt be out of pocket. With that in mind, as well as having regard for the nature of 
awards weve made in cases of a similar nature, I think that £250 compensation would be a 
reasonable amount for Northridge Finance to pay Miss H for the impact things had on her.
For the reasons explained above, my provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this 
complaint and require N.I.I.B Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance to pay Miss H; - 
Simple interest at 8% per year on her £5,000 deposit from the date it was paid until 
the date it was refunded.
Simple interest at 8% per year on the £419.99 paid for diagnostics tests from the 
date they were paid for until the date they were refunded.
A £300 rental cost she paid for an alternative car on 18 September 2019 plus simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.
£489 for each month she was forced to rent another car (between September 2019 
and July 2020, so a total of 11 payments) plus simple interest at 8% per year on 
those sums from the date paid until the date they are refunded.A £37.39 insurance cost paid on 18 September 2019 plus simple interest at 8% per 
year from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.
A non-refundable deposit of £195 paid toward hire car rent on 25 September 2019 
plus simple interest at 8% per year from the date it was paid until the date it is 
refunded.
An administrative insurance charge of £74.80 paid on 25 September 2019 plus 
simple interest at 8% per year from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.
A non-refundable deposit of £195 paid toward hire car rent on 24 September 2019 
plus simple interest at 8% per year from the date it was paid until the date it is 
refunded.
An administrative fee of £45 for car hire paid on 24 September 2019 plus simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.
Sums of £115 in respect of driving school vinyl decals as well as costs to cover the 
installation of dual controls of £489.60 paid in July 2019, on the basis that Miss H 
provided evidence of the costs of this (which she hasnt currently) plus simple interest 
at 8% per year from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses
Northridge didnt agree with my colleagues provisional decision. They said that, in August 
2020, they instructed the dealership to refund [Miss Hs] monthly repayments/consequential 
losses and Miss H accepted the payment from the dealership in full and final settlement. So, 
they believe that Miss Hs consequential losses claim has already been concluded.
Northridge also said they consider the provisional decision fundamentally flawed as it was 
done without any evidence of the (consequential losses) the customer claims they have 
incurred. And theyve specifically referred to the rental payments with regards to this. And 
that the provisional decision is asking them to cover the full cost of these, not just a 
proportion of the payments as detailed in the investigators original view.
They dont accept that, even though there were issues with the car, the faults were present 
when the car was supplied to Miss H. And, because she used the car for driving lessons, the 
fact the car will have been driven by multiple drivers, in a manner that would differ 
significantly from regular driving means they didnt think durability was a valid argument.
Finally, Northridge said that the vinyl decals were non-transferrable, so Miss H would always 
have had to bear these costs herself.
Miss H has said that the dealership settled the outstanding finance. But this was only as low 
as it was because shed made monthly payments towards the agreement. So, she feels she 
should also be refunded these payments. 
She also said the dealership didnt collect the car from her home, and she had to return it to 
them. Which meant she incurred an insurance cost. Which she thinks should be refunded to 
her, along with the other insurance costs.
Miss H said that, although the other cancelled driving lessons were reinstated, she was 
forced to cancel a test on 11 September 2019. And, as a result, she had to pay £62 to re-
book this for her student. So, she thinks this cost should be refunded to her.
Finally, Miss H has said that the stress, inconvenience and distress caused by [the car] 
being unfit and the long and protracted claim [shes] had to make has exacerbated her health conditions. So, she doesnt feel that £250 compensation is fair, and that £2,500 is a 
more reasonable figure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northridge have provided a copy of an email they sent to the dealership on 28 August 2020. 
In this email they say they feel customer is entitled to claim back monthly payments on this 
one as they didnt have use of the vehicle. They have also suffered consequential losses as 
they had to lease a new car (as she is self-employed driving instructor). Ie [sic] they would 
not have incurred these costs had the vehicle being supplied been of a satisfactory quality.
Its clear from this email that Northridge are accepting that the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied. And, as a result, Miss H has suffered some consequential losses 
(including having to rent another car) which should be reimbursed.
In reply, on 3 September 2020, the dealership confirmed to Northridge that we have 
received notification from the customer that they accept the offer made by the branch and 
the branch are in the process of resolving this. Correspondence from the dealership 
confirmed this offer was to repay the £5,000 deposit, refund the £413.99 diagnostic charges, 
and settle the agreement. And, even through Miss H (in an email of 23 August 2020) raised 
the issue of the rental payments being refunded as well, and Northridges email of 28 August 
2020 saying that these rental payments and other any other consequential losses should be 
refunded to Miss H, the dealership only refunded the deposit and diagnostic costs.
Given this, I dont agree that Miss H accepting the payment from the dealership was in full 
and final settlement of the matter, as it didnt cover the consequential losses Northridge 
confirmed she was entitled to. Whats more, as Northridge accepted on 28 August 2020 that 
the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality, and as they havent provided any evidence i.e. a 
report from an independent engineer, to show anything different, I dont accept their 
subsequent arguments about the faults not being present when the car was supplied, and 
that they were somehow caused by how the car was driven.
Moving on to what the consequential losses should include, Ive seen Miss H has supplied 
us with evidence of the rental payments shes made. Given this, and the above, Im therefore 
satisfied that these should be refunded to her.
As self-employed a driving instructor, Miss H had several options with regards to the car she 
chose to use. And she initially chose to finance this herself through Northridge, rather than 
taking a package through a driving school, or driving school supplier. Its my understanding 
she did this as it worked out cheaper for her. However, in doing so, she also took the risk 
that, if her car was off the road unexpectedly, she wouldnt have a replacement (which is 
something that wouldve been provided through a driving school package). And this may 
result in additional costs relating to the need to cancel lessons and or tests at short notice.
Miss H has said that she needed to cancel a test on 11 September 2020, because the car 
supplied by Northridge was off the road. But this is the risk she took by choosing to finance 
the car herself, rather than taking a more expensive driving school package that wouldve 
included a replacement car under these circumstances. Given this, I dont think it would be 
fair for the cost of this test to be refunded.
Between September 2019 and June 2020 Miss H rented a car so she could continue to 
work. And, once shed received the initial refund back from the dealership, she used this to help enable her to purchase this car through finance from another company. So, for the 
period in question, Miss H was paying both Northridge and the rental car.
Miss H believes she should be refunded the payments she made to Northridge during this 
period. However, if this were to happen, Miss H would essentially have had 11-months of no-
cost driving as both the Northridge and rental payments would be refunded to her. Which 
isnt a fair outcome. If the car supplied by Northridge hadnt broken down, Miss H would 
always have had to make payments towards this. So, as Northridge (in their 23 August 2020 
email) agreed that the rental car costs should be refunded, which covers the additional costs 
Miss H incurred, I wont be asking them to also refund the monthly payments Miss H made.
I agree with Northridge that the dual controls and decals were always something Miss H 
would need to pay, given her option of how she financed the car. However, because the car 
they supplied wasnt of a satisfactory quality, this is something Miss H would need to pay 
again when obtaining a replacement car. And something that normally she wouldnt need to 
pay again so soon. So I agree that these costs should be refunded to her. 
But I dont agree that Miss H should be refunded for the cost of insuring the car to return it to 
the dealership. I havent seen anything to show me that the dealership refused to collect the 
car. Nor have I seen anything to show me what Miss H paid for this, or that she didnt have 
alternative insurance she couldve used for this journey  a standard comprehensive 
insurance policy would normally allow the insured to drive another vehicle on a third-party 
only basis, without the need to obtain additional insurance. And, as Miss H had another car 
she was using at the time, she wouldve had car insurance.
Finally, Miss H has asked that the compensation be increased from £250 to £2,500. Shes 
explained that the prolonged period she didnt have the car caused her distress and upset. 
While I dont doubt that Miss H did suffer some distress, she arranged for a replacement car 
which mitigated the fact that the car Northridge supplied had broken down. As, as stated 
above, the costs associated with this are being refunded.
Miss H has also said that the prolonged period the complaint process has taken has caused 
her some distress. Unfortunately, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so it isnt 
something Im able to consider. And, just as Miss H is entitled to make a complaint, 
Northridge are entitled to defend their position. I also appreciate this matter took a long time 
for us to deal with, and I apologise for this. But the Financial Ombudsman Service is a free 
alternative to the courts and isnt a fact-track complaints process where we can guarantee a 
swift resolution. Whats more, by using a representative, Miss H has been able to step away 
from some of the stresses of dealing with the complaint. Because of this, I wont be 
increasing the recommended compensation.
Putting things right
So, given the above, Northridge should:
pay Miss H 8% simple yearly interest on the deposit and diagnostic refund shes 
already been paid, calculated from the dates she made these payments to the date 
of the refund ;
reimburse the £300 she paid for an alternative rental car on 18 September 2019, and 
the £37.39 insurance cost associated with this;
upon receipt of evidence of when she made these payments, reimburse the rental 
costs for the alternative car for the period September 2019 to July 2020 inclusive, 
including the £195 non-refundable deposit and the £74.80 and £45 administrative 
charges;upon receipt of evidence of when she made the payments, reimburse the £115 decal 
cost and the £489.60 dual control cost;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Miss H made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Miss H an additional £250 to reflect the trouble and upset shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires N.I.I.B. Group to take off tax from this interest. N.I.I.B. 
Group must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Hs complaint. N.I.I.B. Group Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman