DRN-2466670
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited turned down his private medical 
insurance claim.
 
What happened
In 2018, Mr S took out a private medical insurance policy with BUPA. It was underwritten 
on a moratorium basis, which meant that pre-existing conditions from the previous five 
years wouldnt be covered.
In 2019, Mr S started experiencing symptoms in his left knee. Hed had a knee 
replacement in 2003, but it hadnt caused him any problems until 2019. He says the plastic 
bearing of the knee replacement had snapped, which was causing him pain. This needed 
to be removed and a new knee replacement carried out. Mr S asked BUPA to cover the 
cost of this.
BUPA turned down the claim as it thought this fell under the moratorium. Mr S didnt 
agree and so he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think BUPA had shown 
that Mr Ss condition fell under the moratorium. She recommended that BUPA reimburse 
Mr S for the money he had spent on the treatment, plus interest.
BUPA didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that if a condition falls under the moratorium, it wont be covered. 
The membership certificate says:
A Moratorium Condition is any disease, illness or injury or related condition, 
whether diagnosed or not, which you or your Dependant
received medication for
asked for or received medical advice or Treatment for
experienced symptoms of, or
were to the best of your knowledge aware existed
in the five years before your start date stated in this Certificate.
BUPA hasnt provided any medical evidence, so I assume that its in agreement with Mr Ss 
description of what happened, and that it accepts he wasnt experiencing any issues with 
the knee before the policy was taken out.
BUPA says that the previous knee replacement provided ongoing treatment for the 
underlying condition, and therefore it thinks the claim falls under the moratorium. I 
dont agree. The previous knee replacement was presumably needed because of a 
medical condition that Mr S experienced back in 2003. The aim of the knee 
replacement was to resolve the problem with his knee by replacing the worn or 
damaged knee joint that was causing the issue at the time. I therefore dont agree that 
Mr S had a disease, illness or injury in the five years before taking out the policy for 
which he was receiving treatment.
Consequently, I think it was unfair for BUPA to turn down the claim.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
reimburse Mr S for the treatment in line with the remaining policy terms. It should add 
interest to this at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date he paid the invoice to 
the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman