DRN-2821570
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only commercial mortgage; one of four Mr A has with 
Lloyds Bank PLC. Hes unhappy that Lloyds asked him to repay it in 2021; he believes it has 
another ten years to run.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr A 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr A took the mortgage out in 2006; in 2012 Lloyds told him there were arrears on the 
account, but that it had also lost the original loan agreement. A new agreement was raised 
and Mr A signed it on a visit to his local branch. Lloyds has recently told Mr A the loan was 
for 15 years from 2006 (and nine years from 2012) and is now due for repayment but he 
disagrees; he says the term was 25 years from 2006 and Lloyds must have made an error in 
2012 when it set up the new agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its regrettable that Lloyds cant produce either of the agreements for the original loan in 
2006 or the replacement from 2012, and I know this is a bone of contention for Mr A. But 
without meaning to sound unkind, Lloyds isnt the only commercial entity here. Mr A has four 
commercial mortgages with Lloyds, so is in business himself. Overall fairness requires me to 
observe that its not unreasonable that Mr A should keep records too.
However, we only have what we have, and thats primarily Lloyds historic contact notes and 
various account statements. Where evidence is contradictory, incomplete or, as here, 
missing altogether, we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in 
civil cases.
Before I deal with the main thrust of the complaint, Ill make the point that if, having seen the 
results of a data subject access request, Mr A is unhappy with some of the comments Lloyds 
has made in its records from time to time, he can take those up with the Information 
Commissioners Office. Other than where they are directly relevant to the underlying 
complaint about the mortgage, such matters arent part of my remit.
The key issue to decide here is whether the loan taken out in 2006 was for 15 or 25 years. 
The available evidence points me towards the greater likelihood being that it was for 15 
years. I say that because the contact notes show that the question came up when the parties 
came together in 2012 to execute the new loan agreement. The notes arent clear on how 
detailed that discussion was, but the outcome was that Lloyds set the successor loan up to 
run for nine years from 2012, which is consistent with 15 years from 2006. 
Whilst neither agreement is available, I think it more likely than not that the 2006 agreement 
was for 15 years and the 2012 agreement was for nine years. Mr A accepts that he signed 
both agreements, and in the case of that from 2012, did so without paying a huge amount of 
attention to what was in it. Nonetheless, by signing them, Mr A agreed to be bound by the 
terms of those agreements, and Lloyds can fairly hold him to the terms of the 2012 
agreement, which is current. 
Ill return to that point in a moment, but first Ill deal with the circumstances that led to the 
2012 agreement being executed to replace that from 2006. Again, Im reliant on the historic 
notes rather than any actual documents, but the mostly likely explanation is that the 2006 
loan was set up to run on an interest-only basis for the first five years and then switch to 
capital repayment in 2011. What I think has caused some confusion is where Lloyds has 
referred in some of its communications to the loan expiring in 2011 when actually it was just 
the interest-only phase of it that expired in 2011.
The switch to capital repayment appears to have taken place in Lloyds accounting system 
on schedule, but without Mr As loan payments increasing to cover the capital element. This 
offers a plausible and logical explanation for why Lloyds was trying to contact Mr A during 
this period, and when it eventually did so in 2012, told him he was in arrears. Those arrears 
were the capital instalments that had been due - but not paid - since the switch from 
interest-only to capital repayment. Viewed in that context, the execution of the 2012 
agreement (on interest-only for the full term of nine years) to replace the 2006 agreement 
makes sense. 
I said Id return to Lloyds being able to hold Mr A to the terms of the 2012 agreement; the 
key one being that it is now due for repayment. The investigator made the point that Lloyds 
has a duty to treat Mr A fairly, by allowing him time to arrange the sale of the mortgaged 
property. I endorse that point, but at the same time, it doesnt mean Lloyds must wait 
indefinitely for a sale. Its entitled to expect Mr A to demonstrate the efforts hes taking to sell 
the property, and retains the right to take recovery steps of its own if its not satisfied with 
those efforts.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman