DRN-1674716
The complaint
Mr B1 complains that Equitable Life Assurance Society wont allow him to take funds out of 
his pension annuity policy.
Mr B1 is represented in this complaint by his brother Mr B2, but Ill mainly refer to Mr B1 in 
this decision.
What happened
Mr B1 had a personal pension with Equitable Life with protected and non-protected rights. In 
2011 as he approached his retirement age of 60, Equitable Life wrote to advise him to start 
thinking about his retirement and to explain how he could take his pension benefits. When 
Mr B1 didnt reply Equitable Life sent a further letter in November 2011 which said he wasnt 
restricted to purchasing his annuity from Equitable Life but could use the open-market option 
to shop around. In January 2012 he was sent annuity illustrations on a single life basis for 
his non-protected rights fund and on a joint life basis for his protected rights fund. Mr B1 
contacted Equitable Life in early 2012 and asked for new quotes based solely on a single 
life, as his marital status was single. The new illustrations were sent to Mr B1 in February 
2012 and he opted to take the maximum amount of tax-free cash (25%) and the remainder 
was used to purchase an annuity which was transferred to Canada Life in 2016. This pays 
him a modest monthly income for the rest of his life, regardless of how long that might be. 
By late 2019 Mr B1s health and finances had deteriorated, and he needed to replace his 
car. So he contacted Canada Life to ask if he could take a further lump sum from his 
pension. When he was told he couldnt he complained the annuity was mis-sold, as he 
hadnt been told he could have added a second annuitant or that he couldnt cash it in. The 
complaint was passed to Equitable Life as it was the business Mr B1s annuity was originally 
set up with.
Equitable Life told Mr B1 it hadnt given him advice about his annuity, it had just provided 
information so he could make the decision. But having made his choice, and once an annuity 
was in payment it was a binding contract and couldnt be changed. Mr B2 complained to this 
service, saying his brother (Mr B1) hadnt understood the implications of taking an annuity. 
To put things right Mr B1 wants to cancel the policy and be given access to the money hed 
invested for over 30 years. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and was satisfied Equitable Life hadnt 
given Mr B1 advice when he purchased his annuity, so it wasnt responsible for the choice 
he made. It was obliged to give Mr B1 sufficient information to enable him to make an 
informed choice, letting him know about the options available to him. She also noted that 
Equitable Life had suggested Mr B1 should seek financial advice as taking pension benefits 
is such an important and irrevocable decision. It told him about Pension Wise which is a 
free service. But she couldnt hold Equitable Life responsible if Mr B1 made his decision 
without seeking advice.
Mr B2 says Mr B1 isnt financially aware, and when he took the annuity hed been going 
through a difficult time personally and health-wise. He thinks its unfair the company is sitting 
on his brothers savings while he struggles. So the complaints been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me explain why.
Im sorry to hear about Mr B1s deteriorating health and financial situation and I understand 
why hed like access to his pension savings. But at the time Mr B1 retired, the only way to 
take pension benefits was to use the fund hed built up to buy an annuity. This provides an 
income for the rest of the annuitants life, no matter how long that turned out to be. The 
amount a person received was based on actuarial assessments of life expectancy. So if 
someone lived a long life the amount theyd receive over the years could exceed their fund 
on retirement. It was possible to make provision for a spouse or civil partner to continue to 
receive money after the annuitants death, but this usually meant the payments would be 
lower from the outset.
The rules of a protected rights fund usually require the provision of a 50% spouse benefit, 
so Equitable Life sent Mr B1 illustrations for a joint life annuity for that fund and a single life 
basis for his non protected rights fund. Mr B1 asked for new illustrations on a single life basis 
only, as he wasnt married. 
The November 2011 valuation showed the value of Mr B1s fund at his retirement date as 
just over £22,700. Note 6 headed Trivial commutation says that if the total value of Mr B1s 
pension savings didnt exceed £18,000 for the 2011/2012 tax year he could have taken it in 
cash. But even if Mr B1 didnt have additional pension savings elsewhere, the value with 
Equitable Life alone was already in excess of the limit, so taking it all in cash wasnt open to 
him. 
Mr B1 was sent a four-page Key Features document which provides information about the 
Equitable Life Pension Annuity. It says You should read this document carefully so that 
you understand what you are buying.It recommended Mr B1 take financial advice and said 
A pension annuity is an arrangement that pays you an income for life. Because of this 
lifetime promise you cannot cash in your pension once it has started. Under the section 
headed You commitment the first bullet point reads Since you cannot alter the pension 
once it has been set up it is important you choose at the outset the form of pension that will 
meet your needs  and the second bullet point reads Once your pension has been set up 
Equitable Life will not allow it to be cashed-in. 
Mr B1 received various illustrations or his protected and non-protected rights funds, showing 
the options open to him in terms of tax-free lump sum, monthly income and guarantee 
period. The illustrations tell Mr B1 he could use the open market option to take his benefits 
with a company other than Equitable Life and that he might get a better rate by doing so. 
They make clear the gross pension will not increase once in payment. And they included 
the wording Warning: It is not possible to surrender the pension at any time.  And it 
recommended he take financial advice before making a decision. 
To take his pension Mr B1 had to complete a Retirement benefits claim form. In Section 2 
Mr B1 ticked no when asked if he was considering taking his benefits on grounds of triviality, which I think shows he understood his fund exceeded the size where this would be 
possible. 
Mr B1 provided the requested details such as how the cheque should be written for the lump 
sum and the bank account to receive his monthly annuity payments. It also asked for details 
of his spouse (or other dependent) who he wanted to receive his annuity following his death. 
Mr B1 left this section blank because he doesnt have a spouse or other dependent. But as 
doing so would have meant lower payments from the outset, hed have been worse off if he 
chose that option, even if it was open to him. 
At the end of this form was a declaration with 5 points. Point 3 reads The instructions given 
in this form shall be irrevocable. And point 4 required him to agree that his choice shall 
constitute a full and final discharge and settlement of all claims arising out of or in relation to 
the retirement benefits available under the Policy. Mr B1 signed this form on 30 January 
2012.
Mr B1 chose not to consult the free Pension Wise service, but he was sent the Money 
Advice Service booklet Your pension  its time to choose. The Annuity section says A 
lifetime annuity converts your pension fund into pension income which youll be paid for the 
rest of your life. It explains various features of an annuity, then says Whatever you choose 
will be for life, you cannot change it. 
Mr B1 chose a single life annuity with a 60 months (five years) guarantee period, which 
meant if Mr B1 had died within five years, the annuity would continue to be paid to his estate 
for the remainder of the guarantee period. Mr B1 signed to accept the illustration he chose 
on 9 February 2012. 
Equitable Life then wrote to him again as he hadnt signed all the relevant forms, so he had 
the opportunity to review his choice again before signing and returning the forms. He was 
also told that he had 30 days to reflect on your decision and change your mind. After this 
period is up, Equitable Life will not allow you to amend, transfer or cancel the pension. A 
Withdrawal Form was enclosed which Mr B1 needed to complete if he wanted to withdraw 
his application within the 30-day period. Although Equitable Life didnt have a sales force so 
werent able to provide financial advice, Mr B1 could have asked for clarification of anything 
he didnt understand before making his choice. And given how many times Mr B1 was 
warned his instructions would be binding and couldnt be changed I cant agree he wasnt 
made aware of this before he made his decision. 
On 24 February 2012 after the 30-day period was up, Equitable Life wrote to Mr B1 to 
explain he had entered into a pension annuity contract and enclosed a copy of the Key 
Features booklet. This meant the opportunity to change his mind had passed. So even if Mr 
B1 had been hoping to take his total fund or a larger proportion of it in cash, he knew at the 
outset this wouldnt be possible. 
The council tax bill Mr B1 provided to Equitable Life to verify his address shows he shares 
the property with his brother Mr B2, but they are not married or civil partners. I asked 
Equitable Life if Mr B1 could have named his brother as his dependent (second annuitant) in 
the absence of a spouse or civil partner. They said for this to have been considered, Mr B1 
would have to provide evidence that Mr B2 was financially or in some other way dependent 
on him (such as through physical or mental impairment). I dont think that applies in this 
case, if anything Mr B1 relies on Mr B2. But as Ive said earlier, if Mr B1 had been able to 
nominate Mr B2 as his joint annuitant, his monthly income from the outset would be lower. 
And Mr B2 would only benefit after Mr B1 passes away, neither of which would help his 
financial situation now. The law changed in 2015 which removed the obligation to purchase an annuity. But the 
change doesnt apply retrospectively so any annuity contracts already in payment cannot be 
amended. This means Equitable Life (or now Canada Life) is obliged to pay Mr B1s annuity 
for as long as he lives, no matter what happens in the future. It wouldnt be fair to enable one 
party to amend a contract if the other party remains bound by it. 
Mr B2 says Mr B1 would have decided differently if hed helped him at the outset. Had he 
done so, Mr B1 may have used the open-market option to shop around and buy his annuity 
from another provider. But he couldnt have done what Mr B2 is suggesting and entered into 
some kind of drawdown arrangement whereby he could access his pension savings as and 
when he needed to. The law didnt allow that at the time. And although Mr B2 says his 
brother isnt financially aware, I think the information provided by Equitable Life was clear 
and understandable. It told him to think carefully about his decision as it was irrevocable so 
couldnt be amended later. It was Mr B1s choice not to take financial advice or consult his 
brother about his decision. I cant hold Equitable Life responsible for that. 
So while I empathise with Mr B1s circumstances I dont uphold his complaint and dont 
require Equitable Life to enable him to take further funds from his pension.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman