DRN-4418735
The complaint
Mr S complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance 
mis-sold him a personal accident policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out a personal accident policy in 2011. He says he was mis-sold the policy as at 
the time he was living at home with his parents, was in good health and had no dependents. 
He says he was pressured into taking out the cover and hes not been receiving documents. 
Mr S recalls that this call took place after hed taken out a loan. 
Swinton said they didnt have information about the sale of the policy given the passage of 
time but Mr S could have cancelled the policy at any time. They explained that theyd 
contacted Mr S at the address they held on file for him and that on two occasions, when 
documents were returned to them, they tried to contact Mr S by phone. Unhappy with their 
response Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he 
didnt think there was persuasive evidence the policy was mis-sold and that Swinton had 
acted reasonably based on the information they held about Mr Ss contact details. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He says the policy was 
mis-sold and that Swinton could have contacted him by email or phone. So, I need to make 
a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Swinton needed to ensure the policy was 
right for Mr S and give him information that was clear, fair and non-misleading. 
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint because: 
Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. It offers cover for a range of life 
changing injuries, hospital benefit and death. So, I dont think Mr Ss circumstances 
at the time meant this was unsuitable for him. I still think he could have benefitted 
from the benefits it provided. 
Ive seen no compelling evidence that Mr S was pressured into taking out the policy 
after taking out a loan. Mr S hasnt given detailed or persuasive testimony about the 
conversation. There was a cooling off period of 14 days where Mr S could cancel 
without charge. And, in any event, he was free to cancel the policy at any time. Hes 
kept the policy since 2011 and so I dont think its reasonable to conclude he was 
pressured into taking it out. 
Its Mr Ss responsibility to ensure his contact details are kept up to date, including 
his address. Thats set out in the policy terms. And I think its reasonable for Swinton 
to send documentation to the address they hold. 
When documents were returned to Swinton on two occasions they tried to contact 
Mr S by phone. Theres no specific requirement for them to email Mr S and I think 
they made reasonable attempts to contact him. So, this point hasnt changed my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman