DRN-3368952
The complaint
Mr Z and Mrs T complain esure Insurance Limited (trading as Sheilas' Wheels) have 
declined their buildings insurance claim.
All references to esure also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
esure declined the claim following inspections from its surveyor, as it felt the damage 
claimed for wasnt consistent with a storm. It also said the cause of the damage was 
more likely due to poor workmanship and a natural breakdown of materials in the 
fixings used to attach the guttering.
The policy defines a storm as:
A violent gale force 10 on the Beaufort Scale reaching wind speeds of 55mph and 
above and/or 25mm or more of rainfall in any 24-hour period, and/or snow to a depth 
of at least 1 ft (300mm) in 24 hours and/or hail of such intensity that it causes 
damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass, according to our weather data.
Mr Z and Mrs T have provided local news articles that show there was heavy hail in 
their area at the time of the incident. They believe larger pieces of hail caused the 
damage and have also reported missing tiles from their roof.
Local weather data in Mr Z and Mrs Ts postcode around the time of the incident 
doesnt show rainfall or windspeed that meets the definition of a storm. I also note 
that it isnt within a close region of doing so either. 
Both esure and Mr Z and Mrs T have provided photos showing where the guttering 
has come away from the structure of the home. 
Although I cannot specifically see the fixings mentioned, I also cant see anything to 
persuade me the damage would have occurred in the way Mr Z and Mrs T have said. 
Based on the information available to me, Im not persuaded esures conclusion is 
obviously wrong. And Ive not been provided with evidence which persuades me that 
hail, on its own, wouldve caused the guttering to detach in this specific case. So, 
overall, I dont think esure have acted unreasonably in declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Z and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman