DRN-1168263
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company limited mis-sold him a motor insurance 
policy. He wants it to honour the price he said he was offered and compensate him for his 
stress and inconvenience.  
 What happened
Mr B called Admiral to cancel the auto-renewal of his policy as hed found a cheaper quote 
elsewhere. Admiral made some changes to Mr Bs policy to lower the price and Mr B 
accepted it. But when Mr B received his policy documents, he found that the policy was only 
for 10 months. This wasnt the cheaper policy he thought he was buying and he had to pay 
an extra £40 for a 12 month policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had told Mr B that the policy would run for 10 months and it had done all it should. 
Mr B replied that Admiral had only told him once in the call that this would be a 10 month 
policy. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B was disappointed that he didnt receive the policy he thought hed 
purchased. He told us that at no point was he told that the policy would only run for 10 
months. So, like the investigator, Ive listened to the call between Mr B and Admiral to hear 
what happened.
In the call, I think Mr Bs intent was to get his cover for the lowest possible price. The advisor 
explained that Mr B qualified for Admirals Bonus Accelerator Policy which would run for 10 
months and he would then receive a years No Claims Discount (NCD). The duration of the 
policy was only mentioned once. 
I think Mr B focussed on the price he was offered. I think he heard that he would get a years 
NCD after 10 months, but he didnt hear the length of the policy. Mr B changed and agreed 
the annual mileage for the policy. The advisor asked him twice if he had any questions, but 
Mr B didnt raise any concerns.
I think a 10 month policy is unusual. And I think Admiral should have clearly explained this. It 
only explained this once. But I also think if Mr B didnt understand this, then he should have 
been given opportunity to ask any questions. I think Admiral asked him twice if he had any 
questions before it took payment. Also, the policy length was then clearly set out in the policy documents that were then 
immediately emailed to Mr B. He then noticed this and called Admiral back to change the 
policy to 12 months. He had to pay an extra £40 for this. But I dont think this was unfair as 
Mr B could have still cancelled his renewal and taken out cover elsewhere. 
Mr B thought hed been mis-sold the policy. But as Admiral later explained to him, he would 
still have benefited from the Bonus Accelerator Policy. I think the scheme was explained 
reasonably clearly and Mr B had the chance to ask further questions if he didnt understand 
it. So I cant say that Admiral did anything wrong or needs to pay Mr B any compensation. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman