DRN-1081264
 
The complaint
Miss K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) had incorrect information 
about the trustee of an account opened for her daughter. This meant she wasnt able to 
access the money in the account when she needed to and there was potential data 
protection breach. 
What happened
Miss K opened a saving account for her daughter in September 2013. This account was 
opened in her daughters name and the address was listed as the address where Miss K 
was living at the time.
In 2018 Halifax made some changes to its childrens savings accounts. As part of this 
process, Halifax changed the name of the account holder from the childs name to the name 
of the adult trustee. Halifax selected the name of someone else as trustee rather than 
Miss K. When she later tried to access the money in the account she was told she couldnt 
do this, as she wasnt the named account holder. 
Miss K was unhappy about what had happened and complained. Halifax said it had made an 
error when making the changes to the account. The account was closed and the closing 
balance was sent to Miss K by cheque. Halifax offered a payment of £462 to Miss K - £450 
for the trouble and upset caused to her, and £12 for expenses she had incurred. But Miss K 
didnt think the payment was reasonable and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought the offer made by Halifax was fair and it didnt need to do any more. 
Miss K disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed there was an error when changes were made to the account  Halifax has 
accepted this. The issue is what needs to be done to put this right for Miss K. So Ive thought 
about how this error affected her and whether the offer Halifax made is fair. 
When the account was created the registered address was noted and I can see that all but 
one statement has been sent to this address. One statement was sent to a different address 
in 2015. But from looking at the address history, the account was still registered to her 
address. Halifax hasnt been able to explain why that particular statement wasnt sent to the 
address on file.
When the incorrect trustee was added to the account the address wasnt changed. All 
statements had been addressed to her daughter until then. One statement was sent out in 
July 2018 addressed to the wrong person but it was still sent to the address registered for 
her daughter.According to the account history no one accessed the account during the time the wrong 
person was named on the account. So they didnt remove any funds there was no financial 
loss. And now the account is closed theres no further risk.
Although no money was lost from the account, I have look at the impact of the mistake. 
Information about the account should not be shared with anyone else and Miss K was 
naturally upset to find out someone else was listed as the account owner. She was worried 
that someone else might have been able to access the funds held in the account. And the 
mistake did cause some problems  Miss K wasnt able to take funds out of the account 
when she needed to. 
Having said that, Halifax acted to put things right once the issue came to light. The account 
was closed and the funds paid to Miss K. So although the situation had been worrying for 
her, she knew at that point she hadnt lost out.
Taking into account the upset caused to Miss K, and the time taken to sort things out for her, 
I think the offer Halifax made to pay £450 for the trouble and upset caused, plus £12 for 
expenses, is reasonable. So I dont think it needs to do any more than pay this sum to her.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc has already made an offer to pay £462 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay £462 to Miss K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman