DRN-4290894
The complaint
Mr X complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Capital One provided Mr X with a credit card account with a £1,500 credit limit in February 
2020. Mr X says the credit card has a very high rate of interest and he has needed to borrow 
further in order to make his monthly repayments. 
Capital One said that it carried out creditworthiness assessments before lending. It said that 
when Mr X applied for the account, he said he was employed with an annual income of 
£24,000 and that he was living with parents. After Mr X raised his complaint Capital One 
reviewed its lending decision and said that based on Mr Xs income, other credit 
commitments taken from his credit file, the housing costs he provided, and an estimate of his 
non-discretionary spending based on a third-party data source, the lending was affordable. 
Mr X wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that Capital One gathered a 
reasonable amount of evidence and information before providing the lending. She reviewed 
the information gathered and was satisfied that this showed the lending to be affordable.
Mr X didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the Financial Conduct Authority 
states "the borrower should be able to make the required payments without undue difficulty, 
whilst continuing to meet other debt repayment obligations". Mr X said that the credit card 
was unaffordable and after making the repayments he is left with no money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
Before the credit card was provided, Capital One asked Mr X about his income, residential 
status, housing costs and dependents. He said he was employed with an annual income of 
£24,000, had no dependents, was living with parents and paying £200 a month housing 
costs. A credit check was undertaken, and this showed Mr X had one agreement with 
monthly repayments of around £281 and a balance outstanding of £337 suggesting the 
agreement would be settled soon. He had two current accounts of which he was using his 
overdraft to near the limit on one. There was no adverse information noted as part of the 
credit check.
Having considered the credit check results, while this did show Mr X was using his overdraft, 
I do not find that this was enough to say that further lending shouldnt be considered or that 
further checks were required. Taking into account the credit limit provided, and the resulting 
repayments this would require compared to Mr Xs monthly income, I find that the checks 
carried out were reasonable.
While I think proportionate checks were carried out that doesnt necessarily mean that the 
lending was affordable. I have looked at the information received through the checks to see 
what this shows. 
Mr Xs monthly income based an annual salary of £24,000 would have been around £1,650. 
While I note the comments Mr X has made about his expenses, as I think in this case the 
checks undertaken before lending were reasonable, I do not find that Capital One was 
required to verify Mr Xs expenses and instead it was reasonable for it to rely on the data it 
received through its checks. These showed Mr X as living with parents and paying £200 a 
month for his housing costs. He had another credit commitment costing £281 a month and 
an overdraft balance of £1,976. Considering the repayment amounts due on the Capital One 
credit card with a £1,500 credit limit, I do not find that the information received suggested 
this would be unaffordable.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr X but as I think the checks carried out before 
lending were reasonable and these showed the credit limit would be affordable for Mr X, I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman