DRN-3731242
The complaint
Mr S used his The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) credit card to acquire tickets in July 
2019, for travel in March/April 2020. He switched his accounts, including his credit card, to 
another bank in September 2019. His service provider cancelled his journey, and it made a 
refund in April 2021 to his RBS credit card. But that card was no longer active, and RBS 
returned this refund in June 2021. Mr S complains that RBS and the service provider have 
both told him to speak with the other business, in order to obtain his refund.  
What happened
Mr S said:
When his journey has cancelled, his service provider initially provided 12 month 
credit vouchers for him to acquire new tickets  but when he was unable to do so 
within this period, it agreed to refund his original transaction 
He chased up his service provider in January 2022  it told him that a refund had 
already been made to his RBS credit card account, and provided a refund reference 
number
A few weeks later, he contacted his new bank  it told him that the refund had not 
been received, and that he should contact RBS to pursue this matter
He phoned RBS in March 2022  it told him that the refund had been attempted, but 
was returned to the service provider because the credit card account was no longer 
active
He contacted his service provider again, and was told that it had no record of 
receiving the returned refund
He then phoned RBS again  it told him that there was no record of this transaction 
(which was different from what he was previously told), and that he should ask the 
service provider to undertake a BACS trace
In April 2022, he asked his service provider to trace this transaction  it was 
unhelpful, and told him that RBS should use the refund reference number it had 
provided to him previously
He formally complained to the service provider and RBS
In May 2022, responding to his complaint, RBS started a retail dispute process 
against his service provider about the missing (unpaid) refund  he supplied detailed 
information to RBS in support of this dispute
RBS reviewed the dispute, and told him that it could not be taken forward  this was 
because such disputes must be raised within 540 days of the original transaction 
(that is, his July 2019 credit card payment)
Mr S referred his complaint to us. He said his understanding was that any attempts to 
reimburse his closed accounts within three years would automatically be transferred to his 
new accounts.
RBS told us:
It received the refund in April 2021 and returned it in June 2021, because Mr Ss 
credit card account was no longer active and no link had been established to another 
account
It did not contact Mr S at the time, because it considered that responsibility for doing 
so rested with the service provider
If Mr S was expecting a refund that did not arrive in his new account, the bank 
account switching rules say that he should have contacted his new bank to address 
this matter
Our investigator did not think that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She said this was 
because:
It was Mr Ss new banks responsibility to ensure that RBS was provided with details 
of his new accounts  this would have enabled the refund to be processed into Mr 
Ss new credit card account
RBS acted appropriately in returning the refund to Mr Ss service provider in 2021
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr S. There are some unsatisfactory elements in this case, about which 
Mr S could have a legitimate grievance. 
RBS was not as helpful to Mr S as it could have been:
When in 2021 it decided that responsibility for telling him about the returned refund 
rested with his service provider
When in 2022 it did not check he understood that responsibility for switching 
accounts rested with his new bank
(Mr S also says that RBS gave him conflicting information in spring 2022 about his refund. 
But I have not seen any documentary evidence in support of this statement.)
I note as well Mr S has told us that he has already made a formal complaint to his service 
provider. 
In addition, Mr S may have cause to complain to his new bank about the way it switched his 
accounts from RBS. 
The formal complaint I am considering is against RBS, rather than Mr Ss service provider or 
his new bank. And I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator  that RBS 
did not act incorrectly. My reasons are as follows. 
Firstly, as commented above, I accept that RBS did not help Mr S to understand that 
responsibility for switching rested with his new bank. But responsibility did rest elsewhere  
and, in my view, RBS acted correctly by not accepting it.Secondly, RBS did not act incorrectly by returning Mr Ss refund to his service provider. It 
was not responsible for the absence of a link from Mr Ss then inactive account to his new 
credit card account. I accept that RBSs decision to leave the service provider to deal with its 
customer did not help Mr S. But RBSs decision was not unreasonable, in my view, given 
that Mr S was no longer its customer. 
Thirdly, responding to Mr Ss formal complaint, RBS considered taking forward on his behalf 
a retail dispute with his service provider. But the dispute procedure used by RBS disallowed 
claims made after 540 days from the date on which Mr S acquired his tickets in July 2019. 
(540 days on was a date in January 2021, which is roundly a year before Mr S chased up his 
service provider for his refund.). 
RBSs decision to decline taking forward Mr Ss claim was not a judgement on whether the 
dispute was justified  only a recognition that the claim was out of time for this dispute 
procedure. RBS once more did not act incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman