DRN-4112123
The complaint
Ms H has a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). She complains about the 
way it has been managed.
What happened
In 2011 Mrs H took out a mortgage with another lender. The mortgage was in two parts. 
Barclays took responsibility for the mortgage in 2014.
Ms H makes a number of complaints about the way Barclays has managed her mortgage 
since November 2019. She says:
in November 2019 she tried to get an appointment to discuss getting a more 
affordable interest rate, but it didnt get back to her. She says she was only able to 
get an appointment on 30 November 2020 and Barclays didnt action her request 
until December 2020. She says this cost her thousands of pounds.
she got two three-month covid-19 payment deferrals in 2020, and then a further six- 
month contractual payment holiday. She says Barclays mishandled her applications 
for these payment holidays, so her credit file was adversely affected.
after her payment deferrals ended she wanted Barclays to continue to allow her to 
not make her mortgage repayments until she sold her property. She didnt want 
adverse information about the non-payments to be recorded on her credit file either. 
Barclays declined saying it was obliged to report true and accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies.
she has been seriously unwell for a number of years. She says this was initially 
caused by a dispute with the freeholder of the mortgaged property but has been 
exacerbated by Barclays actions. She says she asked Barclays to write to the 
freeholder to try to get them to carry out the necessary repairs to her property, but 
Barclays refused.
she told Barclays that the mortgaged property was deemed unfit for human habitation 
in mid-2021, so it was unsellable. Despite this it kept asking her when she was going 
to sell the property.
she told Barclays she was unable to work because she was so unwell. But it didnt 
support her as it should or take her vulnerabilities into consideration.
Our investigator reviewed what happened. She accepted that Barclays made a number of 
mistakes in the way it had handled Ms Hs payment deferrals. However, she said the £300 it 
had offered to compensate her was a fair and reasonable amount. In her opinion she didnt 
think Barclays was wrong to say it wouldnt write to the freeholder of Ms Hs property, and 
she couldnt see that Ms H had asked for a lower interest rate on her mortgage before 
November 2020.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigator. Amongst other things she said our investigator didnt 
consider what shed said about Barclays handling of her vulnerabilities. Ms H also said she 
had a phone call with Barclays on 9 June 2020. She made notes on that call  the agent told 
Ms H a mortgage colleague would call her back to discuss the interest rate on the mortgage. 
But she didnt receive a call back.
Ms H told our investigator that she wanted to provide us with more evidence to support what 
shed told us. But she didnt provide it.
As Ms H didnt agree with the outcome our investigator recommended, this complaint has 
been passed on to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is not in dispute is the distress or impact of what has happened on Ms Hs health. 
Having reviewed the available evidence from both parties Ive come to a different view to our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Interest rate switch
Barclays notes of its contact with Ms H show that she first contacted it to ask for a new 
interest rate on her mortgage in November 2020. At this time says she wanted to know if 
there were better rates available and an appointment was booked for 30 November 2020.
In late December 2020 Barclays offered to switch the interest rate on her mortgage. The new 
interest rate product had a £999 product fee.
Ms H is adamant that she asked Barclays to help her sooner. She says she took extensive 
notes of her dealings with Barclays, and that she had a phone call with Barclays on 9 June 
2020 that proves she raised this issue then. As Barclays doesnt have a record of that call I 
cant be sure exactly what happened. Nor has Ms H provided me with a copy of the notes 
she took. However, Ive considered Ms Hs very detailed July 2020 complaint document. In 
that document she refers to the 9 June conversation. She says the person she spoke to 
said: She would get her mortgage colleague to call me the following week to look at what 
mortgage help could be offered, such as getting me onto a better rate. Ms H goes on to say 
that the relevant person didnt phone her. Ive also seen a November 2020 email from Ms H 
to Barclays that refers to that phone call.
Given the details of what Ms H had said and provided, Im persuaded, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Ms H did have the phone conversation she says she did on 9 June 2020. 
Im not persuaded that Ms H raised the matter with Barclays before that.
I think it would have been helpful if Ms H had contacted Barclays about this matter again in 
June 2020 when she wasnt phoned back about it. However, I can also see that she has 
complained in detail about the trouble she had getting Barclays to help her in mid-2020. In 
her emails to our investigator she refers to the countless conversations and emails with a 
countless number of Barclays employees she had around this time and the fact that despite 
that she felt her formal complaint which was totally disregarded. So I think its likely that she 
tried to raise the matter again with Barclays around June 2020.In the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to say that Barclays should have done 
more to address the matter around June 2020.
Barclays agreed to reduce the interest rate Ms H was paying on her mortgage in December 
2020. That was despite the fact that shed been on several mortgage holidays since early 
2020 and was on benefits because she had long term health conditions that stopped her 
working. So I think its likely that Barclays would have agreed to give Mrs H a new interest 
rate product in June 2020 (when her position was arguably better than it was in December 
2020) if shed been able to have a substantive conversation with Barclays about her interest 
rate then.
It took Barclays around a month to agree to the interest rate product after her appointment 
on 30 November 2020. So I think its likely that it would have taken around a month to agree 
to the product switch if it had considered it in June 2020. It follows that I think Barclays 
should rework Ms Hs mortgage as if the interest rate product it offered her in December 
2020 had applied from July 2020, taking into account any fees she wouldve incurred getting 
that product. Ms H had said that she doesnt think she should have been charged the £999 
product fee given the trouble she had getting Barclays to reduce the interest rate she was 
paying. But I think she would always have had to pay a product fee for a new interest rate 
product, so I think its fair and reasonable for the fee to be applied to her account.
Payment deferrals
Ms H is very frustrated about the way Barclays handled her requests for payment deferrals 
in 2020. She says she spent hours online and on the phone dealing with Barclays mistakes 
about this. She has provided evidence to support what she has said. Ms H is particularly 
unhappy that the covid-19 payment deferrals were recorded as arrears on her credit file and 
that she was sent arrears letters and texts by Barclays.
Ive no doubt from what Ms H has told us, and Barclays notes of her contact with it around 
that time, that Ms H was very annoyed and distressed by what happened. Barclays has 
accepted it made mistakes dealing with her payment deferrals, so it offered her £300 
compensation.
Ms H doesnt think thats nearly enough. She has told us that the matter had a big impact on 
her already fragile health at the time.
I appreciate what Ms H has told us about the impact of this matter on her. Theres no dispute 
that Barclays shouldve handled her payment deferrals better. However, my role isnt to 
punish Barclays for its mistakes. Im conscious that Ms H was already very stressed and 
anxious in 2020 and 2021 by issues outside of its control e.g. the condition of Ms Hs 
property and the ongoing dispute she was having with the freeholder of the property. I also 
think its fair and reasonable for me to bear in mind the unprecedented situation Barclays 
found itself in during 2020. The covid-19 pandemic meant that there was very high demand 
for support from Barclays customers. That put added pressure on Barclays at a time when 
its branches were shut and its staff had to work from home. At the same time it had to 
implement new and changing guidance from its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to give its customers payment deferrals to help them though the pandemic.
In the circumstances, I can see why Ms H was sent automated letters and texts saying she 
was in arrears.
However, I think Barclays should have done more to help Ms H sooner. In particular I think it 
should have acted to try to manually amend its systems to stop the arrears letters being sent 
after Ms H told Barclays about the impact of them on her.Barclays actions after the payment deferrals had ended
In September 2020, the FCA announced that firms covid-19 support arrangements would 
change from the end of October 2020. From then on it said that firms should continue to 
support customers in difficulty  but the way it did that was down to firms discretion and 
customers circumstances. The FCA made it clear that firms could report arrears to the credit 
reference agencies if customers had already benefited from six months of covid-19 payment 
deferrals.
By 2021 Ms H had benefited from six months of covid-19 payment deferrals and an 
additional six-month payment deferral. Ms H thinks that Barclays should have continued to 
give her further payment holidays at this time and ensure that adverse information about the 
non-payments werent recorded on her credit file. Barclays declined saying it was obliged to 
report true and accurate information to the credit reference agencies.
I dont underestimate Ms Hs strength of feeling about what happened around this time. But I 
think Barclays was entitled to say that it wouldnt continue to give her payment deferrals. The 
terms of her mortgage say that she can take six months payment holidays overall, and no 
more than three months in any one year. So by allowing her six months payment holiday, on 
top of the covid-19 payment deferrals, Barclays had already done more to help than the 
terms said it should have done. And I think it was fair that it didnt offer any further payment 
holidays. I say that because Ms Hs financial position was deteriorating at this point as the 
amount unpaid on her mortgage account was building up. Ms H wasnt working and wasnt 
likely to be working in the future. So I understand why Barclays was keen for Ms H to sell the 
mortgaged property. And in the meantime, under the terms and conditions she was required 
to make payments. I think its fair that Barclays reported missed payments to her credit file, 
as that accurately reflects what was happening with her mortgage.
Ms H has said that in mid 2021 her property was deemed unfit for human habitation. So it 
was unsellable in the condition it was in. Thats why she wanted Barclays to write to the 
freeholder of her property to ask it to carry out necessary maintenance works. I appreciate 
Ms Hs position on this, but I dont think Barclays was required to write to the freeholder of 
her property. Nor do I think doing so would be likely to have had much impact on the 
freeholder. I say that because Ms Hs dispute with her freeholder had been going on for a 
number of years by that point, and the dispute had already gone to court.
Barclays response to Ms Hs health
Ms H has told us about her health concerns on a number of occasions. She has been clear 
that she doesnt think Barclays did enough to support her. She complains that despite telling 
Barclays about her health on a number of occasions it didnt take her health and 
vulnerabilities into account. She says it wasnt until she spoke to an adviser in November 
2020 that Barclays specialist support team was told about her circumstances. She thinks 
she should have been referred to that team much earlier.
Ive considered Barclays notes of its contact with Ms H. These show that she told it about 
her vulnerabilities in July 2019. At that time she said she wasnt working due to her health, 
and Barclays gave her a mortgage payment holiday. In the circumstances, I cant say that it 
didnt take Ms Hs health into account at that time. It also told us that all its advisers are 
trained to support vulnerable customers. So I can understand why it only decided to refer Ms 
H to its specialist support team in November 2020 when it had become clear that Ms H was 
particularly vulnerable and needed more support.
Ms H has told us she found the support she got from the specialist support team helpful. 
However, she complains that it didnt contact her again after January 2021. She says that when she was given contact details to get in touch with Barclays, the phone number of the 
specialist support team wasnt given.
I think it wouldve been helpful for Barclays specialist support team to help Ms H after this 
point. It was clear that the underlying reasons for Ms H being vulnerable (her health, her 
dispute with the freeholder of the property and the impact of that on her day to day living 
arrangements, being behind with her mortgage) hadnt gone away, and were arguably 
getting worse.
Conclusion
Taking this matter as a whole, Im persuaded that Barclays made a number of mistakes in 
this case. I think that it should have handled her request for a lower interest rate on her 
mortgage in June 2020, it should have done more to ensure that her payment deferrals were 
handled better, and it could have done more to support her health.
Ms H has been clear about the impact of Barclays mistakes on her, at a time when she was 
already vulnerable. So in addition to reworking her mortgage to ensure that the interest rate 
product it offered her in December 2020 was applied from July 2020 I think it should pay her 
£750 compensation for the trouble and upset its mistakes had on her. That amount reflects 
the substantial impact of Barclays mistakes on Ms H.
But even after Barclays takes those steps, Ms Hs mortgage will still be in substantial 
arrears. Barclays will need to look carefully at her situation to see whether theres further 
assistance it can offer, and Ms H will need to engage with Barclays and try to work with it to 
find a way forward. I hope a solution can be found, and Ms H is able to resume paying her 
mortgage. But if that doesnt prove to be possible, and Barclays finds it needs to take further 
action, it should continue to bear her vulnerabilities in mind as it does so.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should:
rework Mr Hs mortgage as if the interest rate product it offered Ms H in December 
2020 was offered and taken out by Ms H in July 2020. When it does that Barclays 
should taking into account any fees that would have been incurred getting that 
product.
pay Ms H £750 to reflect the trouble and upset Barclays caused her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision despite being asked to on more than one 
occasion.
Ms H provided a very detailed response to my provisional decision. She also sent us a 
further detailed response after the Financial Ombudsman Service sent her copies of the 
documents I relied upon to reach my provisional decision. 
Before I consider Ms Hs recent responses I think its worth me saying here that its clear that 
Ms H is unhappy with the thoroughness of my response to all the points she has made in 
this complaint. 
I appreciate Ms Hs strength of feeling about all the issues she has raised. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service. That means Im not 
required to respond to each individual point Ms H has made. 
Instead my role is to consider Ms Hs complaint as a whole and make a decision that I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. So I trust Ms H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
decided her complaint in the way that I have. Id like to assure Ms H that Ive read and 
considered the whole file, however Ill keep my comments to what I believe is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I 
dont need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome in this complaint.
To summarise Ms H has made the following points since I issued my provisional decision:
Ms H feels that Barclays has cherry-picked the records it has sent us to hugely 
downplay the number of phone calls she had with it, and all the letters it sent her 
about the arrears. She says Barclays did that to conceal the full extent of how they 
treated her and has at times mis-recorded and actively lied about the way it treated 
her. Ms H thinks I was wrong to rely on Barclays records. 
Ms H wants me to make it clear that she was (and still is) unable to pay her mortgage 
because of her health. So she has said that her ill health is a disability. So she says 
Barclays has discriminated against her.
Ms H doesnt feel that I did enough in my provisional decision to highlight the impact 
of Barclays actions on her health.
She remains of the view that the new interest rate should be applied before July 
2020.
She doesnt think the £750 compensation I said I was minded to award is enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the redress I said I was minded to award in my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Interest rate switch
I remain of the view that Barclays should rework Ms Hs mortgage as if the interest rate 
product it offered her in December 2020 was offered and taken out by Ms H in July 2020. 
Thats because I remain of the view that on the balance of probabilities, Ms H had a phone 
conversation with Barclays on 9 June 2020 where it said (amongst other things) that it would 
phone her back about getting a lower interest rate on her mortgage. 
Ms H remains adamant that she asked for a lower interest rate before that. She doesnt think 
Barclays has been honest about that and doesnt think it has sent us all its records as its 
required to do. Im in no doubt about the strength of Ms Hs feelings about Barclays and its 
record keeping, but Im not persuaded that Barclays has deliberately withheld information as 
Ms H says it has. 
Ms H feels that I criticised her by saying Im not persuaded that she raised the matter with 
Barclays before that. She says its not normal for a consumer to have to create records of its 
interactions with a company and by not doing so sooner, she is effectively being punished. I want to be clear that I wasnt criticising Ms H in my provisional decision. Nor do I think 
consumers should have to provide detailed records of every interaction with a company. 
However, Im required to make my decisions on the basis of the available evidence. In this 
case Im not persuaded (on the balance of probabilities) that the evidence shows that Ms H 
asked for a lower interest rate on her mortgage before 9 June 2020. My reasons for that are 
set out in my provisional decision. 
Payment deferrals
Its clear that Ms H doesnt think Ive fully appreciated the impact of Barclays mistakes about 
the payment deferrals on her. She has told us how she thinks Barclays only gave her what 
she was entitled to in terms of payment holidays and how aggrieved she is about how much 
work she had to put in to ensure that her payment holidays were recorded properly  
something she says it never got right. Ms H has told us how Barclays sent information to the 
credit reference agencies every month, but it wasnt right as every couple of months 
Barclays had to manually cleanse her account. She says Barclays told her each month that 
theyd corrected the issue, but that wasnt right. She says that went on for a year and all 
letters and documents continued to be incorrect 18 months later. She says she spent what 
amounts to weeks on the phone trying to get Barclays to correct its systems.
After she said this I asked Ms H whether she still thinks her credit file has incorrect 
information on it as a result of what happened. Ms H didnt confirm that. Instead she says 
that Barclays caused irrevocable problems. She told us that a credit card stopped working 
for cash transactions and was never reinstated. She says the credit card provider asked if 
shed checked her credit file but wouldnt provide any further information. 
Im in no doubt that Ms H thinks that Barclays is wholly responsible for what happened with 
her credit card  and other credit cards where her credit limit was reduced at the time. I also 
think its likely that her credit file  something Ms H says was wrong and adversely affected 
for over a year  is likely to have impacted her access to credit around this time. But Im 
conscious that Ms H hasnt provided me with a copy of her credit file to consider  despite 
being prompted to. So it is difficult for me to see the full picture of her finances at the time. 
I think the reasons for each lenders decision to reduce the amount of money it was willing to 
lend to Ms H would have been affected by a number of issues including her overall financial 
circumstances, the relevant credit card providers attitude to risk and Ms Hs management of 
her credit card accounts. So its not clear to me (on the basis of the available evidence) the 
extent to which Barclays is responsible for these issues. Ms H has told us that she wasnt 
working at the time, hadnt been for some time, and was in receipt of benefits. I dont say 
that to cast aspersions on Ms H in any way  as she has suggested  but to highlight her 
overall circumstances at the time. In deciding how much money it was willing to lend Ms H, 
and on what terms her creditors would have considered Ms Hs overall circumstances, 
including her credit file.  
Other points Ms H has raised
Was Ms H discriminated against?
In her response to my provisional decision Ms H said that her ill health is considered to be a 
disability. As her ill health has prevented her from working and paying her mortgage she 
says her lack of ability to pay her mortgage is directly caused by her disability. She feels 
Barclays has treated her less favourably than someone without a disability  in other words 
that Barclays has discriminated against her.
I think its worth saying here that I already considered these issues in my provisional decision even though Ms H made her point more directly in her response to my provisional 
decision. 
Discrimination can have a specific legal meaning  its the unlawful behaviour set out in the 
Equality Act 2010. The Equality Act applies to Barclays, and its something Ive taken into 
account in this case. Ive used the words taken into account because it isnt for me to make 
a finding on matters of law in my decisions. Thats a matter for the courts. Nor is it for me to 
act as a regulator and decide whether Barclays breached relevant regulations. However, I 
have considered the Equality Act, and discrimination in the wider sense. Ive thought about 
whether Ms H has been treated unfairly, and if she has, whether that unfair treatment was 
because of who she is. 
Having considered all the available information in this complaint, Im not persuaded that 
Ms H was discriminated against because of the personal circumstances that affect her.  No-
one is disputing the serious health concerns Ms H has lived with and I empathise with the 
situation she finds herself in. This situation has ultimately meant that Ms H hasnt been able 
to pay her mortgage. But this doesnt mean that Barclays acted unreasonably. Ms H entered 
into a mortgage contract and the contractual monthly payments had to be paid.  Its 
unreasonable for any lender to allow a mortgage to continue to remain unpaid and for 
arrears to mount up without having to take any course of action. What Ive considered is 
whether the course of action that Barclays took was fair and reasonable  and I think it was. 
While I understand the situation that Ms H finds herself in, its not reasonable to suggest that 
Barclays should allow the mortgage to continue to remain unpaid as a reasonable 
adjustment. It therefore follows that its not for Barclays to write off the mortgage because of 
the situation that Ms H finds herself in. 
Barclays contact about her arrears
I appreciate that Ms H remains very upset about Barclays contact with her about the arrears 
on her mortgage and the potential consequences. She says Barclays sent her threatening 
letters and texts saying she could lose her home that she found very distressing. 
I understand Ms Hs point of view and Im sorry to hear what she has told us. However, Im 
conscious that Barclays was obliged to ensure that she was fully aware of the potential 
consequences of the substantial arrears that were building up on her account, and later on 
about potential litigation. 
So overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays was wrong to keep her informed of the arrears 
on her account and the potential consequences. 
Should Barclays have written to Ms Hs freeholder?
In her response to my provisional decision Ms H said that she accepts that Barclays wasnt 
obliged to write to her freeholder, but she still thinks it would have made a difference. I 
appreciate Ms Hs point of view. However, as Barclays wasnt obliged to write to her 
freeholder, I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me say that 
Barclays should have done more on this point.
Barclays response to Ms Hs health
Ms H doesnt think that my provisional decision did enough to highlight the impact of 
Barclays actions on her health. Amongst other things Ms H highlighted the fact that she was 
prescribed additional medication and that at one point Barclays knowingly drove her to the 
point of feeling she could not go on. She thinks that by not awarding her more compensation 
I am punishing her and rewarding  even emboldening - Barclays. As I said in my provisional decision, my role isnt to punish businesses for their mistakes. So I dont think its right to say 
that by not punishing Barclays I am somehow punishing Ms H or downplaying the 
significance of what she has told us. 
Im very sorry to hear about the impact of Barclays mistakes on Ms H and what she has 
gone through, this is not in dispute. Ms H has provided a great deal of detail about her 
interactions with Barclays. She has made it clear that she didnt feel that Barclays helped her 
in any way, and that she feels it was negligent and incompetent.
As I said above, Ive considered everything Ms H has said and provided. However, my role is 
to consider Ms Hs complaint as a whole, with reference to the all the circumstances. 
I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable that Barclays should pay Ms H £750 
compensation to reflect the substantial impact of its mistakes on her. 
Barclays documentation
In reaching my provisional decision I took into account Barclays records.  
Its clear from Ms Hs recent submissions that she feels that Barclays has cherry-picked the 
records it has sent us to hugely downplay the number of phone calls she had with it, and all 
the letters it sent her about the arrears. She feels Barclays has tried to conceal the full extent 
of how they treated her  that it mis-recorded and lied about the way it treated her. 
Once again I dont underestimate Ms Hs strength of feeling about these issues. Theres no 
doubt that there are substantial gaps in Barclays record keeping but Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that Barclays has acted to deliberately misrepresent or underplay its interactions 
with Ms H as she has suggested.
What should Barclays do going forward?
Recently Ms H has told us that negotiations with the builder to resume work on her property 
are underway. She says that will lead to her finally being in a position to sell it. She has 
asked for me to give directions to Barclays regarding moving forward. She wants me to ask 
Barclays to agree a realistic approach moving forward to enable the work to complete to 
enable the sale of the property.
Im very pleased to hear that Ms H might soon be in a position to sell the mortgaged property 
and clear her arrears. However, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell Barclays how to 
manage her account going forward. 
As I said in my provisional decision, even after Barclays takes the steps I set out in my 
provisional decision Ms Hs mortgage will still be in substantial arrears. Barclays will need to 
look carefully at Ms Hs situation to see whether theres further assistance it can offer, and 
Ms H will need to engage with Barclays and try to work with it to find a way forward. I hope a 
solution can be found, and Ms H is able to resume paying her mortgage. But if that doesnt 
prove to be possible, and Barclays finds it needs to take further action, it should continue to 
bear her vulnerabilities in mind as it does so.
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays should rework Mr Hs mortgage as if the interest rate product it 
offered Ms H in December 2020 was offered and taken out by her in July 2020 and pay her 
£750.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
rework Mr Hs mortgage as if the interest rate product it offered Ms H in December 
2020 was offered and taken out by Ms H in July 2020. When it does that Barclays 
should taking into account any fees that would have been incurred getting that 
product.
pay Ms H £750 to reflect the trouble and upset Barclays caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman