DRN-3780679
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs H complain about the rate of increase of their premium in relation to their 
private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr F and Mrs H first took out a private medical insurance policy 
with AXA in 2020. The policy renewal date is in April each year. In March 2022, AXA 
offered renewal at a premium which was higher than the previous year. Mr F asked AXA 
about the basis for the increase and wasnt satisfied with its response, so pursued the 
complaint. 
Mr F and Mrs H want AXA to provide the information they have requested about the 
basis for the 7.2% increase in premium. They complain that AXA doesnt provide 
information about historical premiums on the members section of its website. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that insurers are free to set premiums and that they 
are not required to share their pricing methods with Mr F and Mrs H. He said that hed 
reviewed commercial, confidential information provided by AXA and was satisfied that it 
had treated Mr F and Mrs H fairly and reasonably and that other policyholders in the 
same circumstances as Mr F and Mrs H had been charged the same. The investigator 
didnt think that AXA had done anything wrong by failing to include previous premiums 
on its website. 
Mr F and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. Mr F responded in some detail, which I 
wont set out here in full. In summary, Mr F said:
Their central point is that medical insurance policies are intended to be renewed 
annually and that shouldnt be an opportunity for the insurer to increase prices 
without any reference points. 
They are concerned in relation to the annual rate of increase.
They are not asking for commercially sensitive information about pricing but want 
to know the basis of the annual increase.
How did the investigator assess that AXA had reached the price fairly?
In other businesses in which annual renewals are common, all billing and 
payment information is available online.
The rate of increase needs to be based on indices such as inflation or age. 
They are concerned about the rate of increase, not the amount. 
Mr F and Mrs H asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
5.3 > Paying your subscription
When you join, and shortly before your membership is up for renewal, well let you know how 
much your subscription will be. You can then choose to pay a yearly or monthly 
subscription.
5.9 > Why subscriptions change
Subscriptions for health insurance tend to increase every year, regardless of which health 
insurance company you use.
Why does my subscription increase every year?
There are a number of reasons why the cost of your healthcare insurance could increase. 
We review subscriptions each year and make calculations based on a number of factors. 
Two of the more common reasons are because:
Your subscription will tend to rise as you get older. This is because, unfortunately, as 
we get older we all tend to suffer more health issues.
The cost of medical treatment tends to rise too as new and better ways of 
diagnosing and treating diseases are developed. We regularly review our plans to 
keep them up to date and to include new tests and treatments where we can.
[]
has AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably?
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct AXA generally about how it conducts its 
business. I can look at whether it has treated Mr F and Mrs H fairly and reasonably. I think it 
has and Ill explain why. 
Mr F and Mrs Hs policy renews annually and theres a new contract each year. I 
appreciate that Mr F and Mrs H disagree with that. Ive seen no evidence that this is 
a rolling contract. The terms and conditions provide that AXA reviews the premium 
each year. 
When calculating premiums, an insurer takes into consideration a very large number 
of factors. Its not for this service to tell AXA what factors it should take into account 
when assessing risk, nor what weight to give to those factors. An insurers approach 
to risk is essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not something with which 
we would usually think its fair to interfere.
AXA has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how 
it calculated the renewal quote sent to Mr F and Mrs H in 2022. Im afraid I cant 
share that information with Mr F and Mrs H, but Ive considered it carefully. Im 
satisfied that the premium Mr F and Mrs H were quoted in 2022 was calculated correctly and that all of AXAs customers in Mr F and Mrs Hs position will have been 
charged a similar premium. So, I dont think that AXA treated Mr F and Mrs H unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
One of the reasons why the 2022 premium was higher than in previous years was 
that the 2021 premium was discounted as a result of a price promise.  
I dont think that AXA is obliged to give Mr F and Mrs H further information about the 
basis on which it calculated their premium and the reasons for the rate of increase: 
thats commercially sensitive information. 
I can quite understand Mr F and Mrs Hs concern about the increase in the premium. 
As they are no doubt aware, it was open to them to decline the renewal quote and 
search the market for another provider.
Ive seen the content of the renewal e-mail AXA sent to Mr F in 2022. It quotes the 
new premium and the previous years premium. Mr F disputes that and refers to the 
letter dated 2 March 2022, which doesnt quote the premiums. That letter is separate 
from the renewal documents. On balance, Im satisfied that AXA sent Mr F 
appropriate information about the new and previous premium so that he could make 
an informed choice about whether to renew the policy. 
Mr F and Mrs H complain that AXA doesnt provide information about historical 
premiums on the members section of its website. Its not obliged to do that. I think 
that the information in the renewal documents is sufficient to enable Mr F and Mrs H 
to make an informed choice. 
Considering everything, I dont think that AXA treated Mr F and Mrs H unfairly or 
unreasonably in calculating their renewal premium or in the information it provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Hs  complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman