DRN-3938967
The complaint
Mr C has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) reduced his overdraft 
limit without providing 30 days notice.
What happened
Mr C previously raised a complaint to our service regarding NatWest overcharging him 
monthly interest on his overdraft facility. NatWest agreed to refund the interest accrued and 
on 12 January 2022 explained to our service that as part of its offer, it would be looking to 
reduce Mr Cs overdraft limit. This was put to Mr C on 14 January 2022 by our service and 
he accepted the offer on 16 January 2022.
Mr C says NatWest sent him the redress and two days later, without any notice, reduced his 
overdraft facility by almost the same amount. Mr C says this is a breach of contract and 
NatWest is required to give 30 days notice in writing. And the only letter he received was 
one week after the overdraft had been reduced. He is also unhappy as NatWest didnt issue 
a final response letter to him after he raised the complaint and took over 8 weeks to 
investigate the complaint.
NatWest say as it received acceptance of its offer, it reduced Mr Cs overdraft in line with 
that same offer. NatWest also said it issued a letter to Mr C confirming its actions. It said 
within this letter it provided its contact details for its financial health and support team to 
discuss a suitable payment plan for the outstanding balance.
Our investigator confirmed that Mr Cs previous complaint had been considered and she 
would only be investigating his complaint point regarding NatWest not giving him 30 days 
notice. And after completing her investigation, overall, our investigator didnt think NatWest 
had acted unreasonably. Mr C didnt agree, so he asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. 
In the meantime, a senior investigator at the service was ensuring the file was ready to be 
passed to an ombudsman and noticed one of Mr Cs complaint points hadnt been 
addressed. So, she took the opportunity to clarify the position. She explained while it was 
frustrating that NatWest didnt issue a final response in relation to Mr Cs complaint, the 
business has eight weeks to issue a final response and at the point Mr C had referred to our 
service the eight weeks hadnt expired.  She also agreed with the first investigators findings.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to highlight that I am aware Mr C has raised a previous complaint to our 
service under a separate reference number. I should clarify, I wont be revisiting or making a 
finding on the outcome in the previous complaint as that has already been considered. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts, and no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter, and that is whether NatWest was required to provide 
Mr C with 30 days notice before reducing his overdraft limit.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account which say:
Your arranged overdraft is not for a fixed period of time, however its repayable on demand. 
This means that we can ask you to repay the full amount at any time. 
We may also decide to reduce your arranged overdraft limit or end your overdraft 
agreement. Well only take these steps if we have a valid reason (for example, we 
reasonably believe that you cant afford your arranged overdraft). 
Before we demand repayment, reduce your arranged overdraft limit or end your agreement, 
well usually give you at least 30 days notice, unless: 
 youve broken any term of the agreement between you and us in a serious way; 
 we reasonably suspect that your account has been used fraudulently or for illegal 
purposes; or 
 we reasonably believe that you cant afford your arranged overdraft, in which case we may 
take these actions immediately.
Having done so, I cant see anywhere in the terms and conditions that NatWest must provide 
30 days notice in writing as Mr C has suggested. The terms state, it usually gives 30 days 
notice and doesnt express what method of communication the notice is required to be given 
in. 
The terms go on to give three examples of when the business may take immediate action, 
which Mr C has referred to. While I dont think it would have been unreasonable for NatWest 
to have relied on one of the three reasons outlined in the terms and conditions (based on 
what Mr C told our Service about his financial circumstances at that time) I do agree with Mr 
C that NatWest never communicated that it had done so. 
While I am not persuaded that NatWest is required to give 30 days notice (in all 
circumstances) in writing, I dont think the terms and conditions are relevant in this case. I 
say this because the reduction of the overdraft facility didnt come about by NatWest 
conducting a review of Mr Cs account and demanding repayment of the overdraft facility.
So, I have gone on to consider how the overdraft reduction came about. As explained above, 
I am not revisiting the offer made by NatWest, this was dealt with in a previous complaint. 
But to assess if NatWest has done anything wrong by not giving Mr C 30 days notice, I need 
to refer to the offer. 
In the previous complaint Mr C raised concerns regarding being overcharged interest. 
NatWest made an offer to Mr C. NatWest clearly stated, as part of its offer, it would be 
looking to reduce Mr Cs overdraft limit. I can see that Mr C was told this on more than one 
occasion by our service. However, the last time this was communicated to Mr C was on 14 January 2022, using NatWests wording. Mr C responded on 16 January 2022 accepting the 
offer. As such, NatWest paid Mr C redress and reduced his overdraft facility as it said it 
would. 
As such, I am satisfied Mr C was made aware his overdraft facility would be reduced before 
NatWest took steps to make it happen. While I agree, it didnt provide 30 days notice, I am 
not persuaded it was required to. Thats because Mr C was made aware the overdraft facility 
would be reduced as part of the offer and that NatWest would use the refund of redress to 
reduce the facility. 
Mr C has also raised concerns about the business not acknowledging his complaint despite 
him sending reminders. I appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr C. As he is 
aware, NatWest have eight weeks to investigate a complaint and issue a final response. In 
this case, NatWest didnt acknowledge Mr Cs complaint point or issue a response in that 
timeframe. I agree with Mr C that this was unsatisfactory. I am aware that NatWest has 
acknowledged its service fell below its usual standards and apologised, which our service 
passed on to Mr C. Overall, Im satisfied an apology in the circumstances is fair and 
reasonable. I say this because when looking at the impact it had on Mr C, I am aware that he 
had used our service before and was aware he could refer the complaint to us after the eight 
weeks had expired. So, while it is frustrating and some inconvenience was caused to Mr C, 
he wasnt prevented from pursuing his complaint with our service, as he proceeded to so. 
So, I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman