DRN-1830874
The complaint
Ms A complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold her a critical illness policy. She says when 
the policy was sold, she was told she would receive £15,000 at the end of the policy term if 
she hadnt made a claim.
The complaint has been brought to our service by Ms As son, who Ill refer to as Mr A.
What happened
In 2004 Ms A took out a critical illness policy with a firm that ReAssure has since acquired 
liability for. The policy provided £30,000 worth of cover over a 15-year term for a monthly 
premium of £31.80. 
ReAssure wrote to Ms A in May 2019 saying she was due a return of premiums of about 
£4,300. 
Ms A complained to ReAssure about the amount she was receiving. She said when the 
policy was sold, she was told she would receive £15,000 at the end of the policy term if she 
hadnt made a claim. And that she relied on this information when deciding to purchase the 
policy so she wanted a refund of all her premiums.
ReAssure confirmed Ms A ought to have received about £5,700 and so arranged for the 
difference to be paid to her. They didnt however uphold the complaint. They said the policy 
was sold on a non-advised basis and so it was Ms As decision to purchase the policy. And, 
as their agents were trained and had full knowledge of the policy terms, they considered it 
reasonable to conclude their agent wouldnt have misrepresented its benefits when it was 
sold. 
ReAssure also explained Ms A was provided a copy of the policy terms which confirmed the 
premium refund benefit and when it was payable. So, they were satisfied Ms A was made 
aware of this when the policy was sold and, if she wasnt happy with the policy, she couldve 
cancelled it within the 30-day period. But they confirmed all of the premiums  about £5,700 
 had been returned in line with the terms of the policy, and as she had requested.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think ReAssure had to do anything further. He said he couldnt be sure what the 
advisor told Ms A but there wasnt anything to evidence she was told shed receive £15,000 
back. Instead, the product literature  including its terms  say that shed get the premiums 
refunded if a claim wasnt made. And, as ReAssure had returned the premiums, he was 
satisfied theyd acted in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
Before I go on to explain my findings on this complaint, I'd like to clarify that I'm only looking 
at whether the policy was mis-sold. So, if Ms A has any concerns about claims being 
declined then she will have to raise this with ReAssure as a separate complaint. And if she remains dissatisfied with their response she may then be able to refer the matter to our 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms As disappointment at not receiving the £15,000 she was expecting to 
receive when the policy ended. But what I must consider is whether ReAssure has acted 
unfairly or outside the terms of the policy. And, while I know this isnt the outcome Ms A is 
hoping for, I dont think they have. Ill explain why.
Ive taken Ms As recollection of what happened when the policy was sold in to account. But, 
as I wasnt present at that time, I cannot be sure what was discussed and whether the agent 
informed Ms A that she would receive £15,000 back when the cover ended. Ive therefore 
considered the documentary evidence that is available. 
There isnt however anything to show Ms A was told she would receive £15,000. But rather, 
Mr A has confirmed his mother received the policy key features and a critical illness booklet. 
These, respectively, say:
            Does my policy build up any cash value?
            This policy is not a savings policy and has no cash value.
However, if you pay premiums for the full term of the your policy as detailed in your 
Policy Schedule and do not make a claim, then at the end of that time [ReAssure] will 
refund all the Critical Illness premiums you have paid.
            and
            How does the Critical Illness Cover work?
            
If you keep your Critical Illness cover for the selected term without making a claim 
you will receive all your premiums back.
I think it was reasonable for Ms A to have read these documents. Had she done so, she 
wouldve known that she would receive the premiums shed paid back at the end of the 
policy if a claim wasnt made. And so, if she was informed otherwise by the agent, then she 
couldve questioned this at the time. I cant see that this happened.
The policy terms also likewise confirm this as they say:
            Premium Refund
If you pay the required premium each month until the End Date shown on your Policy 
Schedule, then [ReAssure] will refund all the premiums which you have paid up to 
that time. If you stop paying premiums at any earlier date for any reason, then no 
refund is available.
Ms A paid the premiums until the policy ended. And so, as ReAssure has refunded the 
premiums - totalling about £5,700  Im satisfied theyve acted in line with the terms of the 
policy. I therefore dont think they need to pay anything further.Mr A says his mother called ReAssure about 12 months prior to the policy ended and she 
was told she would be receiving a sum of £15,000. Unfortunately, there isnt any record of 
this call. I appreciate Mr As dissatisfaction with this as he says ReAssure record all their 
calls for training and monitoring purposes and so it should be available. But, in the absence 
of anything to show the call took place, I dont think I can fairly conclude what  if anything  
may have been discussed in respect of Ms As policy.
Im also aware Mr A has raised concerns about inconsistencies in the level of cover provided 
by the policy. This is because of a document from the time of sale showing Ms A had 
selected four units of cover  opposed to the three units of cover she applied for  for a 
lower monthly premium of £30.20. Its unclear why this handwritten record of the policy is 
different to the policy Ms A set up. Nevertheless, I dont think it changes how the policy 
worked or that Ms A is only entitled to a refund of the premiums she paid  and not £15,000. 
And, as a claim wasnt made, the difference in the number of units and cover provided by the 
policy hasnt led to Ms A suffering a financial loss. 
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the policy was mis-sold or that ReAssure has acted 
unfairly or outside the terms of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman