DRN-2968848
The complaint
Ms D complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limiteds handled a claim she made, 
which resulted in damage being caused to her property.
What happened
Ms D contacted British Gas as she noticed water coming through her kitchen ceiling. By the 
time British Gas attended, shed been able to stop the leak, and the plumber advised that a 
valve would need replacing. 
Another plumber attended to carry out this work. When replacing the valve, he caused a 
severe leak, causing the electrics to short. 
Ms D complained to British Gas, she said shed been left to dry out the property herself, and 
when the electrics came back on, it blew the microwave and induction hob. She wanted 
British Gas to pay for the replacement of the appliances.
British Gas attended again to check the electrics and confirmed the appliances were 
damaged beyond repair, but found no other damage to the electrics had been caused. It said 
it thought the items had been damaged by the original leak, so Ms D should make a claim on 
her home insurance policy for those. It didnt agree to cover the costs.
Unhappy with British Gas response, Ms D brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator was persuaded that it was most likely British Gas whod caused the damage. So 
she recommended it pay for the cost of replacing and installing the items. She also 
recommended British Gas pay £400 compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it had cased Ms D after causing the second leak.
Ms D accepted the recommendations. British Gas eventually agreed to cover the cost of the 
appliances. But it said as Ms D hadnt given any proof of purchase, it would only offer £650 
for the items. It agreed to pay the £400 compensation.
Ms D didnt accept the offer of £650. Our investigator thought it was unreasonable for British 
Gas to say Ms D hadnt provided any evidence to substantiate the costs, and said this is 
something shed expect British Gas to do once it had agreed her proposed outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 British Gas appear to have now accepted that its poor workmanship did cause the leak that 
damaged Ms Ds appliances, so I havent considered that as part of my review. Both parties 
have also accepted the compensation amount of £400, so I havent considered that any 
further either. All that is left for me to decide is whether the offer British Gas has now made  
of £650 - is fair.
As British Gas now accepts it was at fault for damaging Ms Ds items, its reasonable that it 
should pay the cost of replacing them, as well as installing them. Its not clear to me how 
British Gas has come to the figure of £650. It hasnt provided a breakdown of this or sent any 
evidence to show that Ms Ds make and model of appliances can be fitted and installed for 
the price it has offered. 
However, Ms D hasnt provided any quotes shes received to replace and install the 
appliances. So I also havent seen any evidence to support that an offer of £650 is too low. 
So it isnt possible for me to decide if this amount is fair, as Ive not seen anything to show 
how much the true cost is. 
British Gas hadnt previously asked Ms D for any evidence of the cost of this before she 
contacted our service. It has only done so recently, so I think its fair that it gives her the 
opportunity to do so. If Ms D is able to show that it will cost more than what it has already 
offered, then its fair that British Gas pay for the full amount of the cost to her on receipt of 
this evidence. 
So to resolve the complaint, British Gas is required to pay Ms D £650 to replace and install 
her appliances. If Ms D can provide a quote or receipt which shows the cost to be higher 
than this, for an equivalent make and model, then British Gas should pay any additional 
amount on top of the £650. If Ms D produces a receipt, it will need to add 8% simple interest 
onto any amount it pays, from the date of the receipt to the date of settlement, to make up 
for the time she has been without the money.  
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited is required to pay:
£650 for Ms D to replace and install her hob and microwave;
If Ms D provides an invoice or receipt which shows the cost of replacing and 
installation  for an equivalent make or model  costs more than this, it should pay 
any difference;
If Ms D provides a receipt showing shes already paid any amount, then British Gas 
will need to add 8% simple interest from the date of the receipt, until the date of 
settlement.
British Gas Insurance Limited also needs to pay £400 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman