DRN-3890670
The complaint
Miss M complains she had problems with her payments to The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
between March 2020 and July 2021. She doesnt think it did enough to help her during this 
time and is unhappy that arrears have been reported on her credit file.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss M set up a direct debit (DD) with The Mortgage Works for her 
contractual monthly payments towards her existing mortgage with it. Miss Ms April 2020 
payment was taken successfully, but her May 2020 DD was returned unpaid.
In June 2020 Miss M called The Mortgage Works and apologised for missing her May 2020 
payment, she explained she was stuck in France and asked to pay the equivalent of four 
payments towards her mortgage. The adviser confirmed the amount as £504 and Miss M 
says she thinks her next payment is due in September 2020.
Miss Ms June 2020 DD was successful but the DDs from July to October 2020 (inclusive) 
were returned unpaid. In practice Miss Ms June 2020 card payment cleared her May 2020 
payment and covered her July, August, and September 2020 payments  this is how it was 
treated by The Mortgage Works at the time.
When Miss M called The Mortgage Works in October 2020 she was told the October 2020 
DD was unsuccessful and this payment was made over the phone. Miss M asked to pay 
extra to cover four payments but was told by the adviser that they couldnt do this, so Miss M 
agreed to call again in a months time.
Miss Ms November 2020 to February 2021 (inclusive) payments were made successfully 
but her March to May 2021 (inclusive) payments were returned unpaid. The Mortgage Works 
wrote to Miss M in April and May 2021 explaining her account was in arrears, it also 
attempted to call her to discuss the matter.
In June 2021 Miss M called The Mortgage Works and cleared her arrears.
When Miss M complained to The Mortgage Works she raised the following concerns:
She was stuck in France and unable to work but wasnt offered any help or the option 
to have a payment break.
When she called in June 2020, she asked to make five payments (rather than four).
She made an overpayment of £500 but was reported to credit reference agencies.
The Mortgage Works didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint, it said it had listened to the calls 
between its staff and Miss M and that: 
In June 2020 Miss M asked them to take the amount for four payments not five.
It wasnt aware she needed any support or help with her payments.
It has reported her account activity to credit reference agencies accurately  Miss Ms 
account was in arrears in April and May 2021.
Miss M complained to our service and explained that shed been stuck in France and so 
couldnt work. She had a lot of different issues to deal with; her flat was burgled, she was 
injured, and this was all in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. She said she tried to keep 
up with her payments and told them she needed help. Miss M called The Mortgage Works to 
make payments, including lump sum payments, and doesnt feel her credit file reflects her 
efforts to meet her obligations.
The investigator upheld her complaint in part  they didnt think The Mortgage Works had 
made an error in reporting arrears on Miss Ms credit file or that it ought to have been aware 
she needed support. But they recommended £100 compensation for the confusion caused in 
allowing Miss M to make overpayments and effectively treating this as a reserve for future 
payments in June 2020 and then not allowing this in October 2020.
Neither party accepted this outcome.
The Mortgage Works said it shouldnt have allowed the overpayments in June 2020 
to be treated like a reserve but that this had worked in Miss Ms favour, so it didnt 
think compensation was warranted.
Miss M said she did ask for help in her calls with The Mortgage Works and that shed 
asked for a three-month break from payments during a call where it couldnt identify 
her. Shes sure she asked The Mortgage Works to take five months worth of 
payments in June 2020 and thinks the call recording is a fraud and a mixture of 
other calls. Miss M thinks the call shows a different discussion and support her point 
that she asked for five payments because she can hear herself referring to 
December.
The matter was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision on 9 December 2022. 
Here I explained why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint: in summary I thought The 
Mortgage Works had acted fairly and that it was appropriate to accurately the status of Miss 
Ms account to credit reference agencies. 
The Mortgage Works accepted my provisional decision, but Miss M didnt respond by the 
deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the calls between Miss M and The Mortgage Works and reviewed her 
account activity to establish what payments were requested and/or took place over the 
relevant period here. Ive set this out in the background above and so wont repeat it all here.
Based on the call we have from June 2020 Im persuaded that Miss M did ask The Mortgage 
Works to take the equivalent of four payments and not more than this. This is because in 
addition to hearing her ask initially for three and then changing this to four payments, she 
also refers to her next payment being due in September and shows an awareness that her 
May 2020 payment was missed. So, she appears to expect the £504 payment to cover May, 
June, July, and August 2020, i.e. four months. The amount £504 is specifically referred to so 
Im satisfied Miss M was aware this was the amount that would be taken when she provided 
her card details in the call. In practice, her June DD was successful and so her payment 
ended up covering her September 2020 payment as well. Ive thought about Miss Ms 
concerns with the call recording, but I think the way the call sounds reflects the fact that the part of the call where she reads out her secure card details isnt recorded, and that shes 
passed to another member of staff to make the payment. I find it unlikely that The Mortgage 
Work would falsify evidence and I think the other elements of the call Ive referred to above 
are consistent with her asking for four payments to be taken.
When Miss M asked to make overpayments in October 2020 she was told that the adviser 
couldnt take more than the payment due that month. Miss M appears to understand that 
only one payment is being taken and says shell call back in a months time. While I agree 
this was inconsistent with what she was able to do in June 2020, and the reason should 
have been explained at the time, I dont think it had an adverse impact on Miss M. Her DDs 
from November 2020 to February 2021 (inclusive) were successful. Miss M hasnt relied on 
being able to make advanced payments; she appears to understand only one payment is 
being taken in October 2020 and has a DD in place. She also hasnt suffered a loss as a 
result of this apparent change in position for the same reasons. So, I dont think it would be 
fair to require The Mortgage Works to pay any compensation in relation to this in the 
circumstances.
Miss Ms monthly DD was returned unpaid in March, April, and May 2021 and no other 
payments were received to cover these at the time. So, the arrears showing on Miss Ms 
credit file in April and May 2021 are an accurate reflection of her account. Whilst Miss M 
then cleared these arrears in June 2021, this doesnt change the factual position her account 
was in in April and May 2021. I understand Miss M was making an effort to meet her 
repayment obligations, but I dont think this means The Mortgage Works has done anything 
wrong in reporting on her account to credit reference agencies the way that it has.
Ive thought about Miss Ms point that she says she needed help and that she requested a 
payment break. From what Miss M has described about her circumstances at the time, she 
may well have been entitled to a payment deferral in line with the relevant guidance from the 
Financial Conduct Authority at the time. However, I cant see that she did inform The 
Mortgage Works that she needed any support or asked for a payment deferral. Miss M says 
she did ask for this in a call where The Mortgage Works couldnt identify her  but if they 
couldnt identify her then The Mortgage Works wouldnt have been able to take any action in  
relation to her account and its unlikely there would be a note of this request in Miss Ms 
records. In the calls we do have, from March, June, October and November 2020, Miss M 
doesnt mention financial hardship or other indicators such as the fact she cant work.
The only time before the arrears in 2021 that Miss M misses a monthly payment is in May 
2020. When Miss M calls up in June 2020 about this she says the reason this payment was 
missed is because shes stuck in France without internet access to transfer funds for her DD, 
and she then makes an overpayment. Similarly, when her DD is returned unpaid in October 
2020 she calls to make a payment and offers to make an overpayment. In each call Miss M 
is asked whether she needs anything else and she answers no. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect The Mortgage Works to have had concerns at this point about whether 
Miss M needed financial support.
I do appreciate that Miss M has been through a lot during this time, but for the reasons 
explained I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman