DRN-2673680
The complaint
Ms B complains that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms B got to know an individual who turned out to be a scammer. She was persuaded to 
apply for two loans, one with Lendable and shortly after another loan with a different 
company, and to transfer these funds to the scammer. The second loan forms part of a 
separate complaint. Ms B says that she only agreed to take the Lendable loan out as she 
was told by the scammer she would get her money back each month to repay the loan, but 
this didnt happen. Ms B has cancelled the direct debit for the loan as she says she cant 
afford the repayments as well as her bills and living expenses. The details of the loan are as 
follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly repayment
14/05/19 £10,000 36 months £378.24
 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Lendable carried out
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision based on the information it had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Ms Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Lendable gave this loan to Ms B required it to carry
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what
she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
These checks had to be borrower focused  Lendable had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms B.
In practice this meant that Lendable had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt
cause Ms B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider
the impact of any repayments on Ms B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, 
and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of 
credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Ms B.
Lendable has confirmed that all loan applications have to be completed through its own 
website or through a comparison site, so Im not persuaded a member of staff at Lendable 
contacted Ms B to apply for the loan as she has suggested. Lendable has also provided 
me with evidence that Ms B had to verify the mobile used in the application with a 
verification code that was sent to her in a text. So Im satisfied Ms B applied for the loan 
herself.  
Lendable gathered some information from Ms B before it agreed the loan. It completed a 
credit search at the time of application in order to provide a quote and used a tool to 
consider inflows and outflows from Ms Bs current account to check that she met its 
affordability requirements. Following this, Lendable decided to verify Ms Bs income. It sent 
a text to Ms B on 13 May 2019 asking her to provide bank statements for a two-month 
period to do so. Ms B provided bank statements which showed the income she received. 
Ms B was entering into a significant commitment with Lendable. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 36 months. So I think it was right that Lendable wanted 
to check, and independently verify, some information about Ms Bs finances. I think the 
checks that Ive described above were sufficient, given the circumstances of this loan, to 
achieve that aim and were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. So Ive looked at the 
information Lendable gathered when it approved this loan to see whether it made a fair 
decision to lend to Ms B.
At the time Ms B applied for the loan her total indebtedness was £86,902 - £81,950 of which 
was taken up with by a mortgage and £4,952 was instalment credit in the form of a loan. Ms 
Bs credit file showed she had met all repayments on time for all forms of payment in the 
three years before the application and a previous loan ended on 7 March 2019 with all 
payments being met on time before the loan was settled in full. The check of Ms Bs credit 
file didnt suggest that she was reliant on credit to meet her day to day living expenses. I can 
also see from Ms Bs statements that her monthly net income was around £1,700 and her 
mortgage and bills (not including food) added up to around £860 so I think its likely Lendables check showed a disposable income of around £840. Taking in to account the 
new loan Ms B would be left with a disposable income of around £460. 
So on balance I dont think the proportionate checks Lendable did raised sufficient
concerns that the lender should have either asked for additional information, or refused
Ms Bs application outright. On balance I think it was reasonable for Lendable to give this
loan to her. I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Ms B, particularly given 
her circumstances at the time she took out the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman