DRN-2473334
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (Vitality) allowed two life insurance 
policies to be set up in his name without his knowledge and the premiums were debited from 
his personal bank account, and a joint account. He further complains Vitality havent 
refunded premiums on one of these policies.
What happened
In November 2017, Vitality received an online application from a financial adviser, who I will 
call P, for a life cover policy on the life of Mr S only (policy one). Vitality sent a welcome pack 
to Mr S confirming the payments for this policy were to be made from Mr S personal bank 
account.
The following month, Mr S submitted amendments to the confirmation schedule Vitality had 
included in the welcome pack. Vitality considered the changes Mr S made to the schedule 
and decided they wanted to see a targeted report from Mr S GP and asked Mr S to provide 
consent. Mr S provided written consent for Vitality to be given access to his medical report, 
but his GP details werent provided. Vitality wrote to Mr S again and received consent and 
the details of Mr S GP. 
Over the following two months Vitality chased the GP for the report and sent several more 
copies of the request, but in early June, the GP said Vitality would need to send a request for 
a full report, rather than a targeted report.
Vitality had collected five consecutive payments on this policy until the direct debit was 
cancelled by Mr S in April 2018. They wrote to Mr S in November 2018 to request further 
consent for a medical report, but when they didnt receive a response, they lapsed the policy.
Prior to this, in October 2018, Vitality received a further online application for Mr S from a 
different financial adviser, who I will call O. The policy (policy two) was on the life of Mr S 
only and Vitality sent Mr S a welcome pack to him at his home address. The pack confirmed 
the first premium would be collected from a joint account Mr S held. The direct debit was 
cancelled the following month by one of the joint account holders and this premium has 
since been refunded by Vitality.
Mr S complained to Vitality in September 2019 that he wasnt aware of any of the plans he 
had taken out and he wanted the premiums returned. In the same letter Mr S complained 
about other policies his family had taken out over several years, but they were not policies 
he was a party to.
Vitality provided a final response to the complaint in November 2019 and said his policies 
had been arranged on a non-advice basis through P and O. Vitality confirmed they had 
refunded all the premiums except for policy one. They explained they hadnt refunded the 
premiums on this policy because it had been on risk for at least five months and they would 
have paid out the benefits if there had been a claim. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things for him. The 
investigator told Mr S that we could only consider the policies in Mr S name. Our 
investigator thought that as the policies had been arranged through financial advisers, and 
policy one had been on-risk for five months, Vitality hadnt done anything wrong. Mr S didnt 
agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his comments Mr S acknowledges Vitality have refunded the premiums debited from his 
account for policy two but feels Vitality should refund the premiums for policy one too. He 
says Vitality wouldnt have paid out on policy one because the information contained within 
the online proposal was incorrect. He adds that Vitality didnt check the proposal from the 
financial adviser and allowed the policy to start when it hadnt been fully considered.
I have considered these comments very carefully but for the same reasons as the 
investigator, I dont think Vitality have done anything significantly wrong here and I will now 
explain why.
In respect of the policy ending one, Vitality provided the life cover proposed until it lapsed. 
The date the policy started, and details of the premium, were confirmed in the welcome pack 
Vitality sent to Mr S. Im therefore satisfied that Mr S was aware of this policy. Mr S also 
provided an amended confirmation schedule to Vitality after receiving the welcome pack, 
and two access to medical report forms.
Vitality were unable to obtain the targeted medical information required from his GP. By the 
time the GP told them they couldnt produce the report they wanted, the direct debit on policy 
one had been cancelled by Mr S.
Vitality records that on 13 November 2018 they told financial adviser O the premiums on 
policy one were unpaid, and on 28 November they wrote to Mr S to obtain a new authority to 
obtain a medical report from his GP. When they didnt receive any further response from the 
financial adviser or Mr S, policy one was formally lapsed. The lapse date was noted as 23 
April 2018 because the last payment received was in March 2018.
I can understand it may have been confusing for Mr S, particularly because policies one and 
two had the same amount of life cover, and the financial adviser had changed, but Im 
satisfied Vitality didnt do anything significantly wrong. They provided life cover for five 
months under policy one, so I think its fair and reasonable they decided the premiums for 
this policy shouldnt be refunded. Vitality had taken on the risk, and although the premiums 
or level of cover may have changed when the medical information was received, this never 
happened, so I think Vitality would likely have paid a claim during the first five months of the 
policy.
I have seen that in October 2018 Vitality received a new application for a life assurance 
policy from Mr S from financial adviser O (policy number ending two) for the same level of 
cover as policy one. This policy also started on the day it was received, and the first 
premium was collected by direct debit from the joint account detailed in the welcome pack. 
The direct debit was cancelled shortly after and the policy lapsed. The premium paid in 
October was refunded in March 2019.
Ive noted Mr S comment that he knew nothing of policy two, and that the other party on his 
joint account made no contributions to that account, but regardless of this Vitality simply set-up the policy as proposed by O and collected the premium from the account provided. It 
seems likely that the other party to the joint account cancelled the direct debit shortly after, 
so it seems reasonable this party had the necessary authority to operate the account.
Although Mr S says he knew nothing of this policy, I have seen that Vitality sent a welcome 
pack to his home address, as they had done on the previous policy. As far as I can see, 
Vitality wouldnt have had any reason to think the policy had been set-up by another party 
on-line through the financial adviser without the involvement of Mr S. Regardless of this, the 
policy was cancelled, and Vitality refunded the one premium paid from Mr S joint bank 
account. I think Vitality dealt with this issue reasonably before Mr S complained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman