DRN-3729431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that Interactive Investor Services Limited trading as Interactive 
Investor (IISL) executed two limit orders and sold shares, which subsequently increased in 
value, when it was not authorised to do so. To put things right, Mr and Mrs M are looking to 
IISL to reinstate their shares and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a trading account with IISL, an execution-only investment platform which 
enabled them to buy and sell shares.
On the 5 October 2021, Mr and Mrs M set two limit orders to sell shares as follows:
order A  with a limit price of $36
order B - with a limit price of $43.10
When the market opened later that day (UK time), the share price had already gone above 
these limit prices to sell and this resulted in IISL executing the trades. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to IISL that these sales took place whilst the share value was 
above the limit price and shouldnt have happened. 
IISL said it had acted in line with their instructions. 
Mr and Mrs M didn't feel that what happened reflected what IISL had said on its website 
about how limit orders work. They brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of the trades IISL executed on 5 Oct 
for Mr and Mrs M but didnt feel we could uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Another 
investigator has looked at the complaint again and come to the same view. In brief summary, 
the investigators thought that although Mr and Mrs M have disputed what limit orders are, 
the terms and conditions they signed up to when they opened their IISL account specify how 
theyve been defined by IISL  and this reflects the generally accepted understanding of how 
a limit order operates. IISL had executed the limit orders as per Mr and Mrs Ms selling 
instructions in line with its terms and conditions  so it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M disagree. They mainly say that they relied on the description of a limit order 
shown on IISLs website which they feel contradicts what it says about limit orders in the 
terms and conditions and supports their complaint that IISL should not have executed these 
limit orders on 5 October at the price they sold the shares for.   
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear how strongly Mr and Mrs M feel about what happened and I want to assure them 
that Ive carefully considered everything they have submitted. Whilst I have summarised the 
main issues in my own words, and I wont necessarily address every point raised, thats 
because Ive concentrated on what seem to me to be the core issues I need to address 
when deciding the complaint. This reflects the fact that we provide an informal complaints 
handling service as a free alternative to the courts. 
 
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same overall conclusions as our investigators. Ill explain why I say this. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that theyve lost out 
financially as a result of IISL executing their limit order instructions on 5 October 2021 when 
they say these trades werent authorised by them and shouldnt have happened. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I would have to find that IISL did something wrong or acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in some way, but I have not seen enough to make me think this 
happened.
Its not disputed that Mr and Mrs M set the above limit orders for one days duration to sell 
their holdings at the limit prices indicated  and this is supported by information supplied by 
IISL from its electronic records.     
The central issue seems to be what Mr and Mrs M understood a limit order to be. Its their 
view that the limit to trigger the order was never reached on that day as the price was never 
as low as the limit price they had inputted. But that view seems to me to be based on a 
misunderstanding. By the time the market opened, the share price had already gone above 
the figure theyd specified for selling in their limit order instructions. This meant that the limit 
price theyd set automatically triggered the sale as it was above the limit value they had 
indicated they wanted to sell at.  
Mr and Mrs M are seeking to rely on information on IISLs website which says: 
'Limit: Set a specific price which if reached, will trigger your order to be placed (buy or sell).'
In IISLs terms and conditions, which Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to sign up to in order to 
open their account, the full definition of a limit order is as follows:
Limit Order means an order to buy or sell a financial instrument at its specified price limit or 
better, and for a specified size.
I dont find that the variance in the wording is contradictory or that its a good enough reason 
for me to uphold the complaint. Whilst the information on the website doesnt mention selling 
when better than the limit price is achieved, I think it's fair to expect that the website simply 
summarises the information in the terms and conditions which form part of the contractual 
agreement between Mr and Mrs M and IISL. 
I wouldnt reasonably expect that IISL should not have executed the limit orders simply 
because the limit price was already surpassed by the time it was possible to trade in the 
shares. As far as I can see, the limit orders were executed as soon as the trades could be 
done, so giving effect to Mr and Mrs Ms instructions at the first opportunity this was 
possible.  Mr and Mrs Ms preferred interpretation of what a limit order is appears to me to reflect the 
way a stop loss order works  that was an option they could have selected instead and had 
they done so, the limit orders would not have been executed. All this leads me to the conclusion that I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that 
it was an error by IISL that led to Mr and Mrs M selling these shares on 5 October 2021 or 
that its fair and reasonable to hold IISL responsible for Mr and Mrs M losing out 
subsequently on rising share values. 
So Im not upholding this complaint and it follows that I cant award the redress 
Mr and Mrs M would like me to. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman