DRN-3958030
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse the money he lost to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 the following payments were made 
from, and credits were received into Mr S HSBC account. For completeness there were 
other transactions, but Ive only listed those that are relevant to this complaint.  
Transaction 
NumberDate Amount Notes
1 18 March 2021 £1,000 debit
2 18 March 2021 £9,000 debit
3 22 March 2021 £10,000 debit
4 23 March 2021 £25,000 debit
5 25 March 2021 £15,000 debit
6 25 March 2021 £10,000 debit
7 26 March 2021 £15,000 debit
8 31 March 2021 £5,000 debit
9 12 April 2021 £25,000 credit HSBC Loan
10 12 April 2021 £25,000 debit
11 12 April 2021 £15,000 credit Z Loan
12 13 April 2021 £15,000 debit
13 13 April 2021 £18,000 credit HSBC Loan
14 13 April 2021 £10,000 debit
15 13 April 2021 £23,000 credit H Loan
16 14 April 2021 £18,000 debit
17 14 April 2021 £7,000 debit
18 15 April 2021 £10,200 debit
19 19 April 2021 £7,000 credit Funds from N
20 20 April 2021 £7,000 debit
21 21 April 2021 £23,000 credit Funds from N
22 21 April 2021 £2,000 credit Funds from N
23 21 April 2021 £25,000 debit
24 22 April 2021 £25,000 credit Funds from N
25 22 April 2021 £18,000 debit
26 22 April 2021 £7,000 debit
27 23 April 2021 £6,000 credit Funds from N
28 23 April 2021 £3,000 debit
29 27 April 2021 £5,000 debit
All the outgoing payments were faster payments and they went to a legitimate
cryptocurrency exchange that Ill refer to as C. It seems that from there, cryptocurrency was
transferred to the scammers. And Mr S was provided with access to a trading platform where
he could see a simulation of what he believed to be his funds and trades.
On 30 April 2021 Mr S reported to HSBC that hed been the victim of a scam. He says he
responded to an advert and got involved with what he believed to be a legitimate
cryptocurrency investment. But when he refused to send further money and couldnt contact
the person hed been dealing with, he realised it was a scam. He also said he only took out
one loan with HSBC for £25,000 and that the funds from N that had credited his account
werent his. He also described how hed downloaded software which had given the scammer
access to his computer.
Ultimately HSBC didnt provide full reimbursement. It seems HSBC treated the debits
covered in transactions 1-10 (inclusive) as authorised payments made as the result of a
scam. But they declined to provide any redress, as they said theyd intervened in several of
the payments and had provided sufficient warnings before following Mr S instructions and
processing the payments which hed asked them to make.
HSBC accepted that Mr S hadnt applied for the £18,000 loan with them and wrote this off.
They also seem to have accepted that the debits covered in transactions 12-29 (inclusive)
were unauthorised. HSBC said the majority of these funds werent Mr S money. Some
came from loans which Mr S said had also been taken out fraudulently and others were
credits from N and werent for him. So HSBC only reimbursed a further £4,200 which they
said represented Mr S own money that was paid away through what theyd concluded were
unauthorised transactions.
Mr S referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators considered the
complaint. She recommended that the complaint should be upheld and that HSBC should
refund all bar the first payment plus interest. As agreement couldnt be reached, the
complaint was passed to me to decide. In February 2023 I issued a provisional decision in 
which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im really sorry to hear of the difficult 
circumstances and the ill health Mr S has experienced following on from the scam. Ive also 
taken into account his individual circumstances when looking at this complaint.
Mr S says that he cant be sure which payments he made himself, which were made
by the scammer but with his involvement and which he had no involvement in at all. Further
to this there are other occasions where Mr S testimony hasnt been consistent. During a call
with HSBC on 13 April 2021, Mr S confirmed hed made all the HSBC loan applications and
all the payments from his account until that time. But Mr S is now disputing this.
Beyond this, the notes of a call Mr S had with HSBC on 19 May 2021 say that he didnt
recognise any of the incoming loans nor the credits from N. But elsewhere he said that he
questioned the credits at the time with the scammer (and this is supported by messages hes
provided). At this point Mr S said he was told not to worry about the loans and the payments
from N were the scammer doing a favour for a friend. And Mr S in other calls accepts that he
did apply for the £25,000 loan with HSBC, albeit having been persuaded to do so by the
scammer.
The overall impact of this is that whilst I accept that Mr S has been the victim of a scam  in
the circumstances of this complaint  it is difficult for me to place a lot of weight on his
testimony as reliable and credible evidence. As such, I think the most reliable evidence
available to me is the contemporaneous message history between Mr S and the scammer,
and HSBCs records from the time. Accordingly, Ive placed more weight on that evidence.Whether a payment is authorised or not is important. The starting point is that customers are
usually only liable for payments theyve authorised, and they shouldnt generally be liable for
unauthorised payments. For a payment to be authorised it requires both authentication and
consent. That is that the payment is correctly processed through the banks agreed process,
and that the customer is aware that a payment is leaving their account. The amount,
destination and ultimate purpose of a payment arent considerations in whether or not it is
authorised, neither is the physical keying of a payment instruction by the account holder
themselves a requirement for authorisation. This is in line with the Payment Services
Regulations 2017.
I wasnt present at the time the payments were made, so I cant ever know for sure what
happened. But, on balance, having considered all the evidence available to me, I think its
most likely that Mr S authorised all except one of the payments that left his account. Ill deal
with the payment which Im intending to conclude was unauthorised later on. But for the
remaining outgoing payments  I think its most likely that Mr S had involvement such that
they can be considered authorised. And whilst the scammer may have assisted in making
them, Im not persuaded that Mr S didnt give permission for them to be made, particularly as
he had involvement with the facilitation of some of those payments in response to challenges
from HSBC.
On balance, I also think Mr S took out the £25,000 loan with HSBC, his messages with the
scammer at the time support this being the case. In relation to the £25,000 outgoing
payment (transaction 10) which represented those HSBC loan funds, I find it implausible that
Mr S would have knowingly taken this lending, but then not consented to it being paid
towards his investment.
Similarly, there is evidence that (on 12 April 2021) the scammer told Mr S to expect incoming
funds of £23,000 and £15,000. This presumably relates to transactions 11 and 15 which
were loans from H and Z. I likewise find it implausible that Mr S would have had
knowledge of these incoming loans, but then wouldnt have gone on to consent to the same
being transferred out to his investment. And Mr S clearly would have had an opportunity to
raise this with the lenders concerned or HSBC directly were he not happy at the time.
Overall, I intend to conclude that Mr S authorised all the outgoing payments excluding
transaction 29. So whilst Mr S might not have known at the time that he was being
scammed, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, HSBC also have
obligations to be alert to instances of fraud, scams and the misappropriation of funds.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that this series of payments were unusual compared to Mr S
typical account activity. And in these circumstances, Id expect HSBC to intervene (as they
did) and to ask questions to provide suitable warnings about the potential for a fraud or
scam.
HSBC intervened more than once in the payments that Mr S was instructing. The point at
which any intervention took place isnt relevant to the outcome of this complaint as
irrespective of when it took place, I think the result would have been the same. The
interventions included blocking his online banking and requiring him to attend a branch with
identification. Ill mainly focus on an interaction that took place on 25 March 2021. The
evidence supports that Mr S proved his identity in branch and was asked detailed questions
about the purpose of his payments. In providing the answers, Mr S didnt disclose the full
information that he later shared when reporting the scam. Mr S presented himself as
someone who had received a recommendation from a personal friend for a particular
investment. He said no one had asked or pressured him to transfer funds and that he was
doing this through his own choice, with no-one else involved. Most of this differs to what
Mr S has since said. Mr S was provided with warnings about common fraud and scams and
said that hed take full responsibility for the payments if it turned out to be a scam.Further to this, during a later call on 31 March 2021, Mr S was provided with a specific scam
warning, which very closely matched the scam he was in the process of falling for. Including
details such as being shown a fake platform showing profits. But Mr S still decided to instruct
further payments. Mr S also (at the direction of the scammer) gave false information to
HSBC in relation to the loan he applied for, stating it was for home improvements, which
again wasnt true. This demonstrates a willingness to be dishonest with the bank to facilitate
further payments and gain access to funds.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I think HSBC did a good job of asking the right
questions and providing appropriate and specific scam warnings. But even if Im wrong and
they ought to have done more, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference. Mr S
was determined to have the payments go through, and HSBCs ability to try to protect his
best interests was hindered by the lack of honesty in the answers he gave. So overall, I dont
think HSBC reasonably could have prevented the loss Mr S suffered in relation to the
payments I intend to find were authorised. I appreciate Mr S alleges some of the payments
were unauthorised, but as Im not persuaded that is the case, I think had HSBC intervened
at any other point, the outcome would have remained the same.
Ive considered whether the Lending Standards Boards contingent reimbursement model
code (CRM) applies to any of the payments Mr S made. The code requires that the
payments in question go to another person. And in the circumstances here, I dont think
they did. The evidence supports that the payments were all made to an account in Mr S
name with C. Mr S own evidence shows contact between him and C and he says that hed
reported the scam to C who informed him that no funds remained and that theyd frozen his
account. If Mr S has evidence to support that the account with C wasnt his, he should
provide this in response to my provisional decision and Id be happy to consider it. But as I
dont think the CRM applies to the payments, it cant be used as a basis to tell HSBC they
need to do more.
I can see that once Mr S had reported the scam, HSBC informed Cs bank. Not surprisingly
given the nature of their business, this didnt result in a recovery. And particularly given the
account with C was Mr S, I dont think HSBC should have done more or failed in their efforts
to recover the money that was sent.
Mr S has also referred to a recent consultation paper from the Payment Systems Regulator
which broadly says that victims of authorised push payment fraud should be refunded in all
but exceptional circumstances. Ive considered this, but it is (at this time) a consultation
paper about a proposal and not guidance, regulation, or industry practice. As such, I dont
think it is reasonable to use the consultation as a basis for telling HSBC they need to do
more in the circumstances here.
The only payment that Im not persuaded Mr S authorised is transaction 29. This is an
outgoing payment on 27 April 2021 for £5,000. Mr S message to the scammer the same day
includes why did you take the 5k from my bank account you should off asked me before
you go into my account and take out the money mate. The relevant regulations generally
mean that HSBC should reimburse any unauthorised payments. But Ill come to this when
discussing any potential redress later in my decision.
The HSBC Loans
As Ive mentioned above, I think it most likely that Mr S knowingly entered into the loan
agreement for the £25,000 loan  this seems to be something that he now accepts. And
whilst I appreciate he later sent the loan funds on to the scammer, Im not persuaded there is
a reasonable basis upon which I can direct HSBC to write the loan off or not to seekpayment from Mr S. The £18,000 loan has been written off by HSBC. There is no detriment 
to Mr S in this and so I dont need to make any findings in relation to that loan to decide this 
complaint.
Actions HSBC have already taken
As Ive mentioned above, HSBC wrote off the £18,000 loan as they accepted it wasnt taken
by Mr S. They also considered the debits from transaction 12 onwards (see above) to be
unauthorised. But HSBC said as only £4,200 of what they deemed to be unauthorised
payments had come from Mr S own money, this is the amount they returned to him. Mr S
accepts that he has no entitlement to the funds that arrived in his account from N. Im also
aware that Z have written off their loan, the proceeds of which Im intending to conclude that
Mr S authorised to be paid out from his account. Similarly, Im intending to conclude that the
outgoing payments representing the £18,000 HSBC loan were also authorised.
The actions HSBC have already taken have left Mr S in a better position than he otherwise
would be in had they treated more of the payments as authorised (as Im intending to find).
As such, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make any further award or to instruct HSBC
that they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
HSBC responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr S responded with some 
comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided an example of a case from the Financial Ombudsman Service website. 
He says this closely matches what happened to him  and that complaint was upheld. 
Firstly, each case is decided upon its individual merits. That being said, Ive reviewed what 
Mr S has shared and there are important differences between Mr S case and the example 
he has shared.
Whilst in both cases there was a scam and unusual account activity, in the example there 
was no intervention from the bank (when the Ombudsman concluded there ought to have 
been and that this would have made a difference). In Mr S case, there were several times 
when HSBC did intervene, and Ive concluded (for the reasons above) that this intervention 
was sufficient and it didnt make a difference. This is largely because Mr S didnt share the 
full details of what was happening with HSBC at the time. And whilst banks should be alert to 
customers who have been coached as to what to say, I dont agree that this is a case 
where HSBC reasonably should have done more before processing the payments. 
Mr S has shared evidence of screen shots of his trading account provided by the scammers. 
He has also included unsigned declaration of deposit forms. Mr S has also referenced a 
letter from the police which he says supports him being the victim of a scam. Mr S also 
shared audio files which he says are the scammers telling him to log in to the software that 
shared access to his computer. I accept that Mr S shared access to his computer with the 
scammers. Ive seen the police letter and I dont dispute that Mr S has been the victim of a 
scam. But being the victim of a scam isnt, on its own, a basis upon which I can direct HSBC 
to provide further redress. Ive considered all Mr S has said, but it doesnt change my mind 
as to whether Mr S authorised the payments in question or as to the outcome of this 
complaint. Some of Mr S further submissions also support my conclusion that he authorised the 
majority of the payments. For example, Mr S said: he said interest rates were very poor and 
he can give me about 2% maybe 2.5% on it. I said no to him but he kept saying you will not 
get a better rate anyway else so I give in and said as long as its 100% safe and he said yes 
it was safe. This indicates that Mr S did consent to the payments in question, albeit having 
been persuaded to do so by the scammer. 
Mr S says that he has been nothing but honest and truthful from the beginning. Ive 
considered this but it isnt supported by the evidence. When HSBC intervened in the 
payments, Mr S didnt answer their questions truthfully. Mr S has also said different things at 
different times to HSBC about the circumstances of this complaint. And as Ive mentioned 
above, this makes it difficult to place weight on his testimony as credible evidence. 
Ultimately, I accept that Mr S has been the victim of a scam. HSBC intervened in the 
unusual account activity that this generated (as Id expect). HSBC also did a good job of 
asking probing questions designed to unearth a potential scam. But Mr S didnt honestly 
answer those questions. And HSBC proceeding with the payments, based on the 
assurances and answers Mr S provided wasnt unreasonable. So, whilst I dont think Mr S is 
at fault for being taken in by a convincing scam, in these circumstances it wouldnt be fair for 
me to tell HSBC they need to do more. Particularly where the actions HSBC have already 
taken have arguably put Mr S in a better position than he otherwise might have been in. 
Im sorry this still leaves Mr S in a difficult position, and Im conscious of the impact being a 
victim in this way has had on him. But my role requires that I remain impartial and fair to both 
sides. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to require HSBC to do anything more 
to resolve this complaint. Should Mr S decide not to accept my decision, it wont be legally 
binding, and he may be able to continue his dispute through other avenues, such as the 
courts, should he choose to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman