DRN-3260059
The complaint
Mrs P complains that, due to problems with Barclays Bank UK PLCs, trading as Barclays 
Smart Investor (Barclays), website, she couldnt sell her shares. She says she lost around 
£6,000 as a result.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her husband, who Ill refer to as Mr P.
What happened
Mrs P had a holding of shares in a company, which Ill refer to as F, in her execution only 
investment account with Barclays. She says that on or around 7 to 9 April 2021, the price 
was around 29p, but it was showing as 14p on her online account. Mr P had to call Barclays 
a few times and it told him there was a system error. Barclays didnt tell Mrs P when the 
error had been fixed. Mrs P says she should be compensated for the difference in the price 
that she could have sold at, and the price that was displayed when the system error was 
fixed on 9 April.
She also complains that on 16 April the price at around 3.30am was completely different to 
that showing when the market opened at 8am.
Barclays said an incorrect price was showing for F shares on Mrs Ps portfolio and it paid her 
£75 for the inconvenience this caused. It said she could have placed an order, either online 
or by phone, and would have received the market price, although it pointed out that F was an 
illiquid stock and the offer price was based on a sale of 3,000 shares.
On 16 April, it said that out of market trading hours, the price shown for the shares was the 
mid-market closing price and that this changed to the indicative market price once the 
market opened. Whilst it said it hadnt made a mistake, it paid Mrs P £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Mrs P could have given instructions to sell F shares over the phone if she was having trouble 
with the website and that the pricing error didnt lead to a financial loss for Mrs P. The 
investigator thought Barclays had fairly compensated Mrs P for the inconvenience caused by 
the incorrect price and by its failure to tell her when it had been corrected.
Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
Mrs P is being charged £4 each month by Barclays.
Barclays failed to provide a duty of care.
The investigator didnt listen to all the calls he had with Barclays.
Barclays hasnt been asked about any insurance policies it has in place to protect its 
customers welfare.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here and Im not going 
to respond to every single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Secondly, Mr P says our investigator didnt listen to all of the calls that he had with Barclays. 
Im satisfied that Barclays has provided us with all of the call recordings it has for the 
relevant time and all of these have been taken into consideration  by myself and by the 
investigator.
Having considered everything, I do not uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The price of F shares was showing incorrectly on Mrs Ps account for several days. Barclays 
terms and conditions say:
We will not be liable for any Losses you may suffer due to any failure of the online 
services, including any Trading Platform, transmission failure or delays or similar 
technical errors, or problems with the software of data feeds provided by third parties, 
to the extent that the failure is beyond our reasonable control. (A 3.6)
Barclays said the wrong price was showing due to a problem with the price feed provided by 
a third party. And, when Mr P contacted it and it identified the problem, I think it was 
corrected within a reasonable timescale. I find Barclays acted reasonably and in line with the 
agreed terms and conditions. As such, it cant be held liable for any loss Mrs P says shes 
made.
On the first occasion Mr P called to report the problem, the member of staff didnt identify 
that the price was reporting incorrectly due to a problem with the price feed. But during this 
call Mr P was clearly having difficulty logging into Mrs P s account and the member of staff 
was rightly focussed on trying to help him solve that issue. 
Barclays told Mr P it would contact him when the pricing feed was fixed, and it failed to do 
so. Barclays apologised for the price feed error and for its failure to contact Mrs P when the 
error was fixed and paid her £75 for the inconvenience caused. I find this to be fair and 
reasonable.
The error with the price feed only affected the price that was reflected in Mrs Ps account. 
Had she tried to place an online order, she would have received the correct, indicative, 
market price. And Mr P was given the up to date market price when he spoke to Barclays. 
I dont find there was an error which prevented Mrs P from trading. And Barclays gave Mr P 
the opportunity to place an order when he phoned, but he declined.
The recorded phone calls show that Mrs P was having difficulty logging into her account and 
was receiving an error message suggesting there was a browser error. I dont find this was 
due to an error with Barclays system. Its staff were helpful in their suggestions and guidance to allow Mrs P to log in successfully and it offered to take her dealing instructions over the 
phone.
On 16 April, Mr P contacted Barclays to query why the price of F shares was completely 
different at 8am to what it had been at 3.30am. Im satisfied that Barclays provided an 
explanation for the price difference and Im not persuaded that either price was reported 
inaccurately. Whilst Barclays didnt make an error here, it did pay Mrs P £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. I dont require it to do anything more.
In response to our investigators conclusions, Mr P raised issues about the monthly fee and 
the banks insurance policies. These arent matters that hes raised previously with Barclays, 
but I think he is suggesting that our investigator should have considered these matters as 
part of his investigation. Ive considered whether there was a pricing feed error, whether this 
led to Mrs P incurring a financial loss, and whether she should be compensated. I do not find 
that I need to take into account the fees she was being charged or the banks insurance 
policies to make my decision. Mrs P can raise any further concerns she has about these 
issues with Barclays in the first instance so that it can investigate them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman