DRN-2229002
The complaint
Mr H complains that investment advice he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc was not
suitable and caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In 2006 Mr H was advised to invest £17,000 into a Portfolio Bond. It was invested in a with
profits property fund and arranged so that hed receive a monthly income of £106.25.
By May 2019 the value of the bond had reduced to just over £60, so Mr H surrendered it and
made a complaint to The Co-op about the suitability of the advice. The Co-op didnt uphold
the complaint as, despite a lack of supporting documentation, it felt the recommendation
wouldve been consistent with Mr Hs objectives and circumstances and that its usual sales
process wouldve been followed.
Mr H didnt accept The Co-ops view and referred the complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into the matter but concluded as The Co-op had done, that the advice
was likely to have been suitable.
Mr H didnt accept this, so the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. I said, in brief, that Mr Hs circumstances at the time  in his 60s, having apparently 
previously been made redundant, working a series of part-time jobs  didnt appear 
consistent with investment in a single asset type, particularly as the invested money had 
come from a lower risk, with profits investment. 
I said the investment represented about half his money and it didnt appear that the specific 
risks associated with a property fund investment had been explained to him, nor the risk of 
capital erosion from taking an immediate income.
I felt Mr H should therefore be compensated by way of a comparison of the recommended 
investment with our cautious benchmark. 
Mr H accepted my decision, adding some comments about the background of the complaint 
 in particular, confirming that he had been made redundant. The Co-op also accepted my 
findings and confirmed it was prepared to settle in the manner Id suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the responses to my provisional decision, I have nothing further to add and remain of 
the view that the complaint should be upheld, for the reasons given. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should The Co-op do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, The Co-op must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
The Co-op should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Portfolio 
Bond 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, The Co-op 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
The Co-op totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that Mr H 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the complaint should be upheld. 
I direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay compensation to Mr H as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman