DRN-3030909
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but she thought Lloyds offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr D paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Mr D ticked the relevant box on his application to take out 
PPI  and I think he could simply have left the box blank if he didnt want it. 
Its not clear how Mr D took out the card and PPI  although it looks as though it may 
have been by post. However, as the sales channel was uncertain, Lloyds considered the 
complaint on the basis that this was a branch sale and that it had recommended the PPI 
to Mr D. I have considered the complaint on the same basis, which holds Lloyds to a 
higher standard in that in an advised sale it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr D. 
And the evidence about Mr Ds circumstances at the time shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr D was eligible for the cover 
and although he said he wouldve had some sick pay entitlement and savings, he still 
seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr D said he was self-employed at the time of the sale, but also 
that he wouldve had sick pay and redundancy pay. He may, of course, have been 
referring to statutory entitlements, but in any case the policy terms and conditions show 
that it would have been no more difficult for him to make a claim if he was self-employed 
than if he was employed. So it does not affect my decision. And although Mr D says he 
had a medical condition that was diagnosed in 1970, I dont think it wouldve been wrong 
for Lloyds to have recommended the PPI. I say this because Mr D hasnt mentioned 
ongoing problems or time off work, so I dont think he wouldve considered it the main 
reason why he might have needed to claim. And if he hadnt consulted or received 
treatment from a doctor for this condition in the 12 months prior to the start of the 
insurance, he wouldve been able to claim for it. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something had gone wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr D would have declined 
the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
While the policy excluded claims relating to mental health conditions and contained 
limitations on claims for back problems, in light of Mr Ds circumstances at the time of 
sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still thought he had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr D would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received, and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr D about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr D was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary it has said Mr D should get back all the money he paid for the policy, because 
Lloyds failed to tell Mr D about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the low 
claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because, it says, that meant the 
policy was poor value, I should find that Mr D wouldnt have taken out the policy had he 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipknown about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr D 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr D paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr D 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Lloyds has already paid Mr D compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ds complaint or make any award in his 
favour for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Lloyds Bank 
PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that Lloyds Bank PLC 
should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman