DRN-3157182
The complaint
Mr P complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has unfairly penalised him for 
his driving methods that were scored from a telematics device fitted to his car.
What happened
Mr P has a motor telematics insurance policy with Admiral that required him to have a plug-
in device fitted to his car that measured how the car is driven. The plug-in device is used by 
Admiral to gather information on a range of driving behaviours and the information gathered 
is assessed and turned into a score based on how safe it interprets the driving of the car to 
be.
The feedback and driving score Admiral calculated for Mr Ps car was based on all of this 
information.
Mr P said when he confirmed the policy, Admiral told him it included the telematics device, 
but he said it wasnt clear to him how the driving score would be calculated. He believed he 
would only be monitored on his driving and is unhappy with Admiral as it also monitored 
when and where the car was driven, and this information was also taken in to account when 
calculating the driving score. 
He complains that the score that has been given has affected his motor insurance discount 
and he doesnt think this is fair. 
Mr P complained to Admiral, but it didnt uphold his complaint. As he was not happy with 
Admiral, he brought his complaint to our service.
 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked in to the case and did not think 
that Admiral had scored unfairly.
As Mr P was unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the sales process to see what information was given when Mr P bought the 
policy.
During the phone call where the policy was agreed an explanation of how the telematics 
policy worked was given to Mr P by the call handler and he was told that by having the plug-
in device he may be entitled to a discount when he renewed his policy. The call handler also 
gave Mr P a quote for the policy without the plug-in device and this increased the cost. Mr P 
decided to take the policy with the telematics plug-in device.
Included within the policy documentation is a detailed explanation about how the plug-in 
device works, what is measured, and how the scoring will be reported to the policy holder.
The documentation details that the plug-in device assesses three main areas.
How the car is driven  including smoothness, how often, efficiency and hesitancy, and 
speed.
When the car is driven  including time of day and days of the week.
Where the car is driven  including local driving, parking and the types of roads travelled 
on.
Ive reviewed the policy documents that were sent to Mr P at the start of his policy and think 
the information about what is measured through the plug-in telematics device is clear. The 
driving score is also explained in detail within the policy booklet.
Mr P accepts the score takes in to account how the car is actually driven but said taking in to 
account where the car is driven and when is ridiculous. He added that the mileage driven 
was very low.
I cant ask Admiral to score Mr P on his driving only, as he requests. We cannot tell a 
business to change its business practice as thats not what our service has been set up to 
do. 
I am satisfied that the details about the telematics motor insurance policy and how the 
driving score is calculated and reported were explained clearly to Mr P by Admiral and the 
details are well-defined in his policy documents.
Mr P chose the Admiral telematics policy himself after he was given a choice of an 
alternative policy without telematics.
I am confident that the score given to Mr P was accurate of what was being measured as per 
his policy details. Admiral have confirmed his driving score was finalised as average and it 
would have no negative affect on his insurance renewal.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint and do not think that Admiral have unfairly scored 
him under the terms of his motor insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman