DRN-4195860
The complaint
Mr N complains Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax declined credit card transactions and 
communicated poorly on more than one occasion when contacting them regarding this. Mr N 
is also unhappy about how his complaint about this was dealt with. 
What happened
Mr N has said on 25 February 2023 he attempted to carry out two transactions and both 
were declined. Further transactions were declined when he was abroad. Mr N asked 
Halifaxs chat function why the transactions had been declined. Initially, he was told there 
was no reason. Then, after reiterating his request, he was repeatedly asked if he could retry 
the transaction  when all Mr N wanted was to know why the transactions had been 
declined. Mr N was then told his transactions had a decline response from Banknet. 
Ultimately, a complaint was raised.
Halifax said the transactions were declined due to a policy rule. They said they cant stop 
this from happening as its linked to the merchant terminal or the way theyre trying to 
process the transaction. Halifax said the transactions were processed for 50p, but the value 
needs to be higher, or the transaction wont go through.
Halifax also said the transactions were turned down due to a Wallet Pay decline. They said 
they cant explain why the transactions were turned down for security reasons. They added 
when paying with Wallet Pay there are instances where youd need to physically enter the 
credit card into the terminal and enter the PIN. Overall, they didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr N asked us to look into things. He explained hed been told on the 
phone when speaking to Halifax transactions under £1 made by Wallet Pay would be 
automatically declined and this was stated in the terms and conditions. Mr N also said this 
would be explained in the letter he received  but it wasnt.
As part of our usual approach, we asked Halifax for their side of things. They said sorry for 
the incorrect information regarding transactions being automatically declined with Wallet Pay 
if they were under £1 and offered £50 in recognition of this.
One of our Investigators considered things, and overall felt the £50 offer from Halifax was 
fair. Mr N didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ns complaint in less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats been said 
its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint is whether Halifax have fairly declined transactions on Mr Ns 
credit card when its come up.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns card say:
B2.5 Can we stop you using your card or refuse to authorise a transaction?
And then goes on to list 15 different reasons why Halifax could potentially not allow a 
transaction to go through. 
Amongst those terms and conditions it explains Halifax wont always be able to give advance 
notification that transactions will be declined. In addition, there isnt anything in the terms and 
conditions that requires Halifax to tell Mr N why theyve turned down his transactions.
Generally, when a card payment is attempted (either directly, or through an application like 
Wallet Pay where you use your phone as the credit card) these can always be turned down 
for fraud prevention measures. I wouldnt expect banks like Halifax to necessarily disclose 
the reason either.
Mr N says he wants to know this, so he can figure out what transactions will go through, and 
what ones wont. This is precisely the information Id expect Halifax not to want to be 
divulged, because although Mr N is a genuine customer, fraudsters would likely use this 
information to steal money. The purpose of fraud prevention is to ensure genuine customers 
dont have their money stolen.
I do completely appreciate it must be incredibly inconvenient to, at times, find youre unable 
to make a payment through your credit card. But, in the circumstances, I cant say Halifax 
are acting unfairly because theyre doing this for Mr Ns benefit  even if it doesnt feel like it 
when hes trying to make a purchase.
I do think Halifaxs initial explanation when Mr N contacted their chat of this being a Banknet 
decline is quite unhelpful. This isnt particularly descriptive and if Halifax are going to give a 
reason, which they may not always do, then it should at least make sense.
Similarly, the responses Mr N had from Halifax when he was discussing his complaint. 
Although complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so I cant consider it in isolation  it 
can be ancillary to a regulated activity. Here, Mr N was seeking an explanation for his credit 
card payments being unsuccessful, and Halifax gave him wrong information. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied its appropriate for compensation to be paid for this.
Halifax have offered £50 and said sorry for the misinformation. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied this fairly puts matters right and compensates Mr N for the inconvenience and 
distress hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I partially uphold this complaint, and require Bank of 
Scotland Plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr N £50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman