DRN-2369414
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund five disputed transactions 
made on his Santander credit card.
What happened
Mr B says that following a holiday in Italy, he found that he didnt have his Santander credit 
card. Mr B says that his card was used in Italy after his return to the UK to complete five 
transactions.
Mr B says that while abroad he used his card, with the last genuine transaction being made 
on 3 January 2020. On the 5 January 2020 Mr B returned to the UK, and on the 13 January 
2020 realised that he didnt have his Santander credit card. Mr B believes that he lost his 
card sometime after 3 January but isnt sure exactly when.
Mr Bs card was used for five transactions that were made between 9 January 2020 and    
13 January 2020  which totalled just over £930 not including interest and charges.
Mr B contacted Santander on 13 January 2020 to report his card lost and asked that they 
refund these five transactions. Mr B told Santander that he had memorised his PIN and it 
wasnt written down or kept with the card. And as he had returned to the UK on the               
5 January 2020, he couldnt have completed the transactions.
Santander investigated Mr Bs fraud case but declined to refund him for the transactions 
saying that all five transactions were done using Mr Bs genuine card with the chip read and 
his PIN correctly entered. And based on what Mr B had told them, there was no point of 
compromise for how someone couldve learnt his PIN in order to use the card. 
Mr B was unhappy with Santanders response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt it was most likely 
that the transactions were completed with Mr Bs consent, as there was no way an unknown 
third party couldve correctly guessed his PIN.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion and several specific details in their view. 
These included that his card wasnt stolen, it was lost. And he disagreed with the comment 
that the investigator would expect to see a fraudster attempt to obtain as much money as 
possible in as short a space of time as possible. Mr B highlighted that there were two 
transactions declined because they exceeded the daily limit, which could explain why there 
wasnt further attempted use of the card. Mr B also provided our service with a signed 
affidavit swearing that nobody knows his PIN, that none of the transactions were authorised 
by him and that his card was lost and not stolen.
Mr B asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Santander can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Santander has provided evidence that Mr Bs genuine card was used to make the chip and 
PIN transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough 
to enable Santander to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B consented to the transactions being made.
Mr B has emphasised to us that his card was lost, rather than being stolen. But this makes it 
more difficult to understand how someone couldve completed the transactions without his 
consent. Mr Bs last genuine transaction was completed on 3 January. And Mr B returned to 
the UK on 5 January. This would suggest that he mustve lost his card between 3 January 
and 5 January. But Mr B didnt use his card in these intervening days, so for someone to 
have learned his PIN they mustve watched him enter his PIN for his last genuine transaction 
then followed him in the hope of him dropping or losing his card  which seems unlikely.
Also it requires the person who found his card to not use it for at least another four days until 
9 January, when the first disputed transaction was made. It seems highly unlikely that a 
fraudster would find a card, then not use it for a number of days. Usually a fraudster will use 
a card as quickly as possible to access the maximum amount of funds possible  because 
they know that the loss of the card could be noticed at any time and the card cancelled 
which would prevent them using it. Im not persuaded that on the balance of probabilities, 
someone found Mr Bs card and had the opportunity to see him enter his PIN and then 
waited several days before actually using the card.
I also considered whether someone couldve guessed Mr Bs PIN. But Santanders evidence 
shows that there were no failed PIN attempts when the disputed transactions were made, 
which meant that whoever used the card had entered the correct PIN on their first attempt. 
And its highly unlikely that someone couldve guessed Mr Bs PIN and got it correct the first 
time. 
Mr B has been adamant that his PIN wasnt with the card when it was lost, that he didnt lose 
any other cards or identification at the same time, and that he had different PINs for each of 
his cards. Based on what Mr B has told us, I cant see a plausible and convincing situation 
where someone unknown to Mr B obtained his card and his PIN in order to use it four days 
after he left the country. 
I realise that Mr B has signed an affidavit swearing that he did not authorise these 
transactions, but I have to reach an answer  in this case - on what I think is most likely to 
have happened.I appreciate that Mr B is going to be extremely disappointed. But based on everything Ive 
seen I think its more likely than not that Mr B consented to these transactions. Therefore, 
Santander is entitled to hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman