DRN-2095784
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of her son, Mr S, who is a vulnerable adult, that Clydesdale Bank 
Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) irresponsibly sold him a personal loan and a credit card.
What happened
It is not in dispute that Mr S is a vulnerable adult. As a result of his condition, he makes 
irrational decisions with his money, and tends to spend it all at once. He has a current 
account with Yorkshire Bank, and in 2017 he went to his branch and asked for this account 
to be changed to a basic account with no overdraft facility, in order to control his spending. 
His mother, who represents him in this complaint, says that she and his father went to the 
branch with him at the time, and explained their sons vulnerability to the branch staff, so that 
the bank would be aware of his situation. The bank says it would not have kept a record of 
that conversation, due to the limitations of its systems at the time (although there is a record 
of the account being converted to one without an overdraft).
In December 2018, Mr S applied to the bank for a personal loan of £6,000, to be repaid over 
two years. In his application, he declared that he was a homeowner, but said he had no 
mortgage or any other expenditure. The bank gave him the loan.
The next month, in January 2019, Mrs S found out about the loan. She wrote a letter to the 
bank, in which she described her sons difficulties with managing money. She said he has 
ADHD, and that the water company had obtained a county court judgment against him, 
which she had paid for him at £1 a month for several years, until the debt was written off. 
She said hed had a credit card with another bank, on which he had failed to make any 
repayments, and shed had to pay it off for him. She said she constantly has to support him 
financially and pay his bills, and that he is on benefits  including income support and 
disability living allowance. She pointed out that he routinely spends all his salary within a few 
days, leaving him with nothing to pay his bills during the rest of the month.
Nevertheless, in February Mr S applied for a credit card and a top-up to his recent loan, and 
Yorkshire Bank granted both applications. The loan was increased to £7,703, and the credit 
limit on the card was £5,100. He exceeded that limit in March. So Mrs S complained to the 
bank, and subsequently to this Service, on behalf of her son. She said that the bank had 
been irresponsible to lend to him, given what she had told it. The bank answered that the 
debts she had mentioned had not appeared on his credit file. The bank later told our 
investigator that it had not checked Mr Ss credit file, and had just relied on Mr Ss self-
declared income and expenditure.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said it should have been clear to Yorkshire Bank 
that Mr S did have expenditure, contrary to what he had declared in his application, and this 
should have prompted the bank to ask him further questions. He said hed looked at Mr Ss 
current account statements, and these supported his mothers claim that he routinely spent 
all his income as soon as he was paid. He said the letter Mrs S had written in January 
should have been taken into account, and this should also have led the bank to ask Mr S 
further questions, even though she was (at that time) a third party with no connection to the 
account. He concluded that if the bank had carried out further checks, as it should have, it 
would have realised that Mr S was having trouble with managing his money. He 
recommended that the bank remove all interest and charges from Mr Ss debt.
The bank accepted the investigators opinion. Mrs S did not. She asked him to tell the bank 
to cancel the entire debt. But the investigator thought it was fair that Mr S should still be 
liable to repay the principal amount he had borrowed, so he wouldnt tell the bank to write it 
off. Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it is very plausible that a homeowner would have no outgoings. Mr S is too 
young for it to be likely that he would already have paid off a mortgage, so I would expect 
him to have mortgage payments if he really owned his own home. So the apparently 
contradictory information in his loan application should have prompted further questions.
Mr S declared a monthly income (after tax) of over £1,400. His bank statement for November 
2018 shows that his salary was £808. In other months it was a bit higher; sometimes £900, 
sometimes £1,000, but this is still much less than he told the bank. On receiving his pay he 
would quickly make a large number of cash withdrawals, which supports his mothers 
description of his spending habits. The statements also show that he was in receipt of state 
benefits. All of this information was available to Yorkshire Bank, and if it had checked his 
statements, I doubt that it would have made the lending decisions it did.
As recently as 3 December 2018, only ten days before the loan application, the bank sent 
Mr S a letter warning him that one of his payments had been returned unpaid. (He had 
received a similar letter in May 2018, as well as unplanned overdraft letters in March and 
August.)
In these circumstances, I think it was irresponsible of the bank to lend to Mr S in December 
2018 and February 2019 without doing more checks than it did. I think all of the lending was 
irresponsible and, in Mr Ss particular circumstances, unaffordable. So I will uphold this 
complaint.
When upholding a complaint of this nature, the usual remedy is to tell the lender to refund, or 
cancel, the interest and any charges. But it is usually fair to say that the borrower should still 
pay back the money he borrowed, because otherwise he gets a large windfall at the lenders 
expense. That is the usual approach of this Service, as the investigator explained to Mrs S. It 
would only be in quite exceptional circumstances that we would depart from that approach, 
and order a lender to cancel the entire debt and refund all payments already made.
The investigator recommended the usual remedy. He said that if he told the bank it could not 
collect what it had lent, then it would effectively have funded Mr Ss holiday (on which a large 
part of the money he borrowed was spent). Mrs S argued that her son had got into a lot of 
trouble on his holiday, and was traumatised by his experience. She said that would never 
have happened if the money had not been lent to him. So far from having the benefit of 
receiving the money, he had been worse off for it.
As far as the initial loan of £6,000 is concerned, I think our usual approach is fair, and I will 
follow the investigators recommendation. All interest on that loan, and any fees or charges, 
should be cancelled, so that Mr S will only be liable to repay a total of £6,000 and no more.But I take a different view about the further lending which followed Mrs Ss letter to the bank 
dated 12 January 2019  that is, the top-up loan and the credit card. That letter, which I have 
described already, was clear and emphatic. It left no room for doubt that her son, the banks 
customer, was not a suitable person to lend to. Although she was not an account holder and 
did not yet have third party access to the account, I think the bank should still have logged 
this information. In coming to this conclusion, I have had regard to the FCAs Occasional 
Paper No. 8 on Consumer Vulnerability, issued in 2015, which says (on page 68):
If a third party contacts a firm to let them know that a customer cannot manage their 
financial affairs  there is nothing to stop a firm making a note of the circumstances 
so that appropriate action can be taken when they can be in contact with the 
customer.  Firms may also want to use the information provided by a third party to 
investigate further and seek a separate conversation with the customer when 
appropriate to do so.
So I think the bank should have taken Mrs Ss letter into account when Mr S applied for more 
credit in February. Had it done so, I think it is inconceivable that it would have extended any 
further credit to him without first conducting further creditworthiness checks, and without 
speaking to him about the matters his mother had raised. Its failure to do so was a serious 
error, with serious consequences.
Therefore, in the exceptional circumstances of this case, I think it would be fair of me to take 
an exceptional course, and to order the bank to unwind the February credit agreements, and 
to cancel all of Mr Ss outstanding liability under them (subject to his liability to repay £6,000 
under the December loan agreement, which should be reinstated). Any payments already 
made under those agreements should be applied to the December loan agreement, which 
should be reinstated under the original APR and terms of repayment.
So my provisional decision is that I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. Subject to 
any further representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order 
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) to:
Cancel the credit card agreement which was entered into on 21 February 2019, and 
cancel any outstanding liability of Mr S to pay anything under that agreement,
Unwind the consolidation loan which was entered into on 21 February 2019, reinstate 
the original loan agreement of 13 December 2018 (which was replaced by the new 
loan), and cancel Mr Ss liability to repay the difference between the principal amount 
of the two loans (i.e. £1,703),
Cancel all interest and charges incurred in connection with the December 2018 loan, 
so that Mr Ss total liability to the bank (including payments already made) shall be 
£6,000 and no more,
Remove both of the February 2019 credit agreements from Mr Ss credit file.
Any payments made to the cancelled agreements must be treated as having been made 
under the December 2018 agreement.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mrs S largely accepted my decision, although she was disappointed that I had not decided to 
tell the bank to write off the principal of the 2018 loan as well. She thought she had done 
enough in 2017 to prevent her son getting into difficulty such as this. She asked for advice 
about how to protect him in future.
Yorkshire Bank did not respond to my provisional decision.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
I dont think there is anything more that Mrs S could have done to protect her son in 2017, 
but the circumstances of the original lending in 2018 were not so extraordinary that I think 
I should depart from our usual practice of telling the lender to refund interest and charges 
only, while allowing it to pursue repayment of the principal sum which was lent. For me, the 
crucial matter which justified departing from the usual approach with the subsequent loans 
was her letter in January 2019. I remain of the view that that is the right and fair outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire 
Bank) to:
Cancel the credit card agreement which was entered into on 21 February 2019, and 
cancel any outstanding liability of Mr S to pay anything under that agreement,
Unwind the consolidation loan which was entered into on 21 February 2019, reinstate 
the original loan agreement of 13 December 2018 (which was replaced by the new 
loan), and cancel Mr Ss liability to repay the difference between the principal amount 
of the two loans (i.e. £1,703),
Cancel all interest and charges incurred in connection with the December 2018 loan, 
so that Mr Ss total liability to the bank (including payments already made) shall be 
£6,000 and no more,
Remove both of the February 2019 credit agreements from Mr Ss credit file.
Any payments made to the cancelled agreements must be treated as having been made 
under the December 2018 loan agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman