DRN-3995262
The complaint
Mr C complains about fees charged on his credit card account by Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard. 
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in October 2022. 
In November 2022 Mr C made two separate cryptocurrency purchases using his credit card. 
He was charged a cash transaction fee for each purchase - £59.80 and £88.44. In 
December 2022 Barclaycard charged Mr C cash interest of £55.08 related to the 
cryptocurrency purchases.
Mr C contacted Barclaycard in January 2023 and complained about the interest and 
transaction fees. Barclaycard said that all fees and interest had been applied correctly but 
agreed to refund the £55.08 interest charge. 
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. He said he thought 
buying cryptocurrency was different to carrying out a cash transaction, such as withdrawing 
money from an ATM. Mr C said he was now aware that buying cryptocurrency incurs a cash 
withdrawal fee. He asked for a refund of the two cash transaction charges. Mr C also said 
Barclaycard didnt post or email a copy of the account terms to him when he opened the 
account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Barclaycard applied the fees in line 
with the account terms and conditions and so didnt need to refund the fees. Our Investigator 
also said that the terms of the account were readily available online and it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr C to check these before using the card.
 
Mr C didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Barclaycard has already refunded the cash interest it charged Mr C, and he 
has asked for it to also refund the cash transaction fees. However, I could only ask 
Barclaycard to refund the fees if I thought it had applied them unfairly. So Ive looked at 
whether Barclaycards terms make it clear that a cryptocurrency transaction will incur a cash 
transaction charge, and Im satisfied they do. Ill explain why I say that. 
Under the fees that we charge section of the terms, it outlines the fees and minimum 
charge that will apply to cash transactions. What isnt specified in this section is precisely 
what constitutes a cash transaction in the context of these fees. That information could have 
helped here  but this is just one section of the terms, which arent designed to be read in 
isolation. 
So having looked at the terms in their entirety, and I think its fair to say theres an 
expectation that consumers would read the terms in their entirety, I think further clarification 
is provided in the Your interest rates section. This section outlines the transactions that 
make up the cash balance on a credit card, and this includes buying digital currencies, 
including cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin. So Im satisfied that the terms provide consumers 
with a clear outline of what transactions will be treated as cash transactions. And its also 
made clear that cash transactions will incur a fee. 
Mr C also said Barclaycard hadnt sent him a copy of the terms when he opened the 
account, and this is why he wasnt aware the cryptocurrency purchase would incur a fee. I 
dont know whether Barclaycard sent Mr C a copy of the terms, but I can see that the terms 
are available online. I think if Mr C had wanted to read the account terms  and Ive already 
said theres an expectation that consumers would read account terms in their entirety  then 
he could have accessed them online. 
I understand Mr Cs frustration at being charged these fees unexpectedly. But, as I said, I 
could only ask Barclaycard to refund the fees if they had been applied unfairly, and Im 
satisfied that hasnt happened here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman