DRN-1269964
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nottingham Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
Mr L took out a mortgage with Nottingham in 1991. He was also sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve covered the repayments on his mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if he wasnt 
able to work due to being unemployed or too unwell to work. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case. 
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
Nottingham shouldve made Mr L aware he had the option about buying the PPI. Mr L says 
he was given the impression that the PPI was an integral part of the mortgage. The sale took 
place nearly 30 years ago, and the mortgage was redeemed about 19 years ago. So, not all 
the paperwork is available for the sale of both the mortgage and PPI. I dont find this unusual 
given the time that has passed. 
Although Nottingham has been able to provide a copy of Mr Ls actual mortgage documents, 
the copies arent very clear. But I can see that the mortgage application form doesnt include 
any mention of PPI  as its likely this would have been a separate application form. If the 
PPI had been a compulsory factor of the mortgage, I would have expected it to be 
mentioned on the mortgage application. The fact it isnt mentioned makes me think its more 
likely to have been an optional extra. From the evidence Ive been given, there isnt anything 
to suggest Mr L saw or completed anything different.  
So, on balance, from the limited information I have, I think its more likely that Mr L chose to 
buy the PPI knowing that it was optional.
Mr L says Nottingham recommended the policy to him. Nottingham says it didnt. But I dont 
think it matters because from what Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable for Mr L based 
on his circumstances at the time. Ill explain why:
Mr L met the policys requirements so was eligible for it.
Mr L says he wouldve received less three months sick pay benefit from his 
employer. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid his mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months if Mr L was unable to work due to being too unwell or becoming unemployed. The policy wouldve paid out alongside Mr Ls employee 
benefits. This would have meant he could have used any sick pay he got to pay for 
other essential costs. And it doesnt look like he had any other means of making his 
mortgage repayments  such as savings.  
It doesnt look like there was anything about Mr Ls circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim. For example, he didnt have any unusual working 
patterns or existing medical conditions. 
I think Nottingham couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr L would still have bought it. Mr L was taking on a large 
financial commitment secured against his home  on his own. So I think he wouldve 
wanted the security of knowing his mortgage repayments were covered. And it 
doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for him.  
 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr L, Nottingham shouldve taken reasonable 
steps to point out the main things the policy didnt cover. I dont know if Nottingham did point 
these things out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mr L. And I dont think 
clearer information wouldve changed his decision. I think he still would have bought it. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for him. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr L has lost out as a result of anything 
Nottingham might have done wrong. 
I know Mr L feels strongly about his complaint and will be disappointed by this outcome. He's 
put time and effort into his complaint. And I've thought carefully about all the points he's 
raised, but for the reasons explained above these points don't change my decision. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman