DRN-4500254
The complaint
Mr R complains that the offer UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill (Churchill) made to 
settle his motor insurance claim is too low.
What happened
Mr R had a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Churchill.
In December 2022, the vehicle was damaged in an incident while it was parked. Churchill 
decided it was not economical to repair the car and it offered to pay the market value of the 
vehicle to settle Mr Rs claim. Churchill consulted three valuation guides, which showed the 
following valuations: Guide 1 - £5,650; Guide 2 - £5,100; and Guide 3 - £5,314. It then said it 
thought the market value was £5,375 on the day the vehicle was damaged.
Mr R did not accept Churchills valuation and said it was too low. He said he hadnt been 
able to buy another car similar to the one that was damaged. He said a close family member 
was receiving long term treatment as a hospital inpatient and he hadnt been able to visit 
them without a car. Mr R said that a few days after the accident, he had paid for his own 
valuation guide, which showed his car was worth £7,986 through a franchised dealer or 
£6,896 through an independent dealer (Guide 4). He later provided an advert for a car he 
said was similar to his, which was on the market for £7,995.
Mr R complained to this service. Our investigator consulted another valuation guide, which 
showed a valuation of £6,438 (Guide 5). Ultimately, our investigator thought both Guide 4 
and Guide 5 should be disregarded when working out the market value. She said they were 
significantly out of line with Guides 1, 2 and 3. Our investigator also said that the car in the 
advert Mr R provided did not have a similar mileage and so should be disregarded.
Mr R did not accept our investigators view. He did not think she had given enough weight to 
the valuation he had obtained. The matter was then passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision because I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said: 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Rs policy say that where it cannot repair 
his car, it will pay the cost of replacing the vehicle up to its UK market value. Market 
value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing your car with another of the 
same make and model, and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident 
or loss.
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service 
often finds motor trade guides persuasive. Thats because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss.
In order to determine the market value, Churchill ultimately looked at three valuation 
guides. I can see that in arriving at those figures, the correct make, model, mileage 
and date of loss were taken into account. Our investigator then considered a fourth 
guide and Im also satisfied that the same correct details were entered.
Mr R obtained his own valuation in Guide 4. I note that the valuation is not dated. 
However, Mr R has sent us an email from the valuation company dated 3 January 
2023. On balance, Im satisfied that he most likely obtained the valuation on that 
date, which is a few days after the accident. Im provisionally satisfied that I should 
take this guide into account.
I can see that for trade prices, Guide 4 shows two potential valuations  the first is 
£7,986 in respect of a franchised dealer and £6,896 relating to an independent 
dealer. It looks as though Mr Rs car would have been around 14-years old when it 
was damaged. I think its more likely a similar car would have been sold through an 
independent dealer rather than through a franchise. On that basis, my view is that I 
should take account of £6,896 from Guide 4.
I have also thought about whether there is any other evidence I should take into 
account in this case. I note that neither party was able to obtain any adverts at 
around the date of the accident because no similar cars appeared to be for sale at 
that time. I can see Mr R did provide an advert for a car on sale for £7,995 from an 
independent dealer from March 2023 or thereabouts.
I do appreciate that Mr R strongly believes that this advert indicates his car would 
have been worth a similar amount. But I note that the car in the advert is younger 
than Mr Rs and it had over 20,000 fewer miles on the clock. Im not persuaded that 
this advert shows the valuation guides were wrong.
With all of these things in mind, we now have five valuations ranging from £5,100 to 
£6,896. Our investigator said that we should not count Guides 4 and 5 because they 
were outliers. However, I am provisionally satisfied that given how similar Guides 4 
and 5 are, they should not be disregarded.
So, in considering whether Churchills offer to settle the claim was fair, I can see that 
its valuation was in the range of the five guides we now have. But its offer is in the 
lower end of that range, and I dont think thats fair. Id usually expect the starting 
point of an offer to be in the middle of the valuation guides. With that in mind, my 
provisional view is that it would be fair and reasonable for Churchill to settle this claim 
based on an average of all five guides. By my calculation, that would come to 
£5,879.60.
In addition to that, I can see how Mr R may well have been put to some 
inconvenience if his motor insurance claim was not settled initially at a fair market 
value. And I note that Mr R told us about some difficulties hed had in visiting a family 
member in hospital as a result. With all that in mind, my provisional view is that 
Churchill should pay a further £150 to compensate Mr R for that distress and 
inconvenience.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. Mr R said he agreed with my provisional findings. 
Churchill did not. It said a fair outcome would be to disregard Mr Rs valuation and take an 
average of Guides 1, 2, 3 and 5 to determine the value of his vehicle at the date of loss. In 
its view, a fair valuation of Mr Rs car would have been £5,625. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Churchills further submissions, notably that I should disregard 
the valuation obtained by Mr R. Churchill did not explain why it thought that valuation should 
not be considered. I explained in my provisional decision that I accepted Mr Rs valuation 
was obtained shortly after the date of loss and I could see that it was a valuation for the 
vehicle that was damaged. I remain satisfied that it is reasonable for me to take account of 
the valuation Mr R provided when Im considering a fair outcome here.  I note that Mr R accepted my provisional decision. With all of this in mind, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Churchill to put 
things right.
Putting things right
I require Churchill to:
Settle Mr Rs claim based on a valuation of £5,879.60.
Pay simple interest on the difference between any initial settlement and the final 
settlement. The rate of interest is 8% a year and is to be paid up to the date the final 
settlement is received.
Pay £150 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience I have 
identified above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill to put things 
right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman