DRN-3435984
The complaint
Mr L complains that his kitchen floor developed a hairline crack after British Gas Insurance 
Limited (BG) replaced his flooring following a claim under his home emergency insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2015, Mr L claimed under his home emergency policy after his boiler leaked. BG didnt 
complete an effective repair, and Mr Ls kitchen floor was damaged. BG repaired the boiler 
and, in 2016, it replaced the damaged floorboards, underfloor heating and floor tiles.
Mr L said he noticed a small crack a short time later but didnt think too much of it. However, 
in 2021, a hairline crack developed across the tiles running across the width of the kitchen in 
a relatively straight line. Mr L appointed a structural engineer to determine the cause of the 
crack, and his report concluded that the floor hadnt been dried out properly when BG 
replaced the flooring in 2016. Mr L asked BG to repair the floor again. 
BG didnt think the damage was due to an inadequate repair. It appointed a loss adjuster 
who said the floor wasnt fitted properly when the property was first constructed. So, when 
Mr L had a new cooker installed, the placement wouldve caused the hairline crack. BG 
declined Mr Ls request for the repair. 
 
Our investigator found Mr Ls expert report more persuasive than BGs desktop assessment 
and recommended that BG cash settle on receipt of two independent quotes for the 
necessary repairs.
BG didnt agree. It said Mr Ls structural engineer hadnt seen the condition of the floor from 
the original leak or before placement of the new cooker, so he couldnt know whether the 
floor was constructed properly in the first place. BG said its loss adjuster was given that 
information. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
The issue is that Mr L thinks the hairline crack in his kitchen floor tiles is the result of an 
inadequate repair when BG replaced his floor. BG says the floor was poorly constructed, and 
it thinks it was that which caused the crack, along with the placement of a new cooker.
Ive looked at the expert evidence provided each of Mr L and BG. Mr L provided a structural 
engineers report. BG provided a desktop assessment of the damage.
I understand BG had access to more information from the original damage than Mr Ls 
structural engineer. After I asked for a copy of the report, BG told me its loss adjuster didnt 
have a report, but they did have an email from the contractor who carried out the repairs. BG 
said, 
they believed that it could be the flooring joists possibly moving or bouncing and recalled 
that at the time of their repair they did try to make the floor more sturdy. They advised us 
that Mr L told them at the time that the builder who did the floor initially hadnt done it 
sufficiently and he wasnt really happy with how it was. The customer himself commented 
to our contractor that the original builder didnt do the floor properly.
Mr Ls expert report stated the following:
It is my opinion that the cracking of the tiling and the adjacent grout lines is the result 
of shrinkage of the retained original floor boarding, causing movement at the abutment to 
the new boarding.
The movement would not have occurred had all the kitchen floor boarding been replaced
While I accept BG believed the floor was faulty before it worked on it, I find Mr Ls structural 
engineers report more persuasive. Thats because he attended the property and inspected 
the floor and the hairline crack  the damage in question - so he wouldve had first-hand 
knowledge of its condition. 
Looking at the straight line of the crack, I can understand why Mr Ls expert concluded that 
the two types of subfloor have likely separated due to shrinking and expending at different 
rates. The tiles are laid in an offset, brickwork style pattern, and both tiles and grout have 
split. The report also supports Mr Ls claim that BG didnt dry out the floor before it 
completed repairs.
I understand BG doesnt agree that the cracking can be due to its work after more than four 
years have passed. Mr L said the crack first appeared shortly after the repair, but it spread. 
Id expect a kitchen floor properly fitted to last more than four years, so anything that 
happened during that time is, more likely than not, due to the later repair where the cracking 
happened, rather than a more general concern about a poor original construction. 
Otherwise, its likely damage wouldve been seen before BG did any work on the floor.
BG said the placement of the new cooker was an intervening act which couldve contributed 
to the hairline crack in the tiles. I accept thats a possibility, but BG has made assumptions 
about how the cooker was moved into place. I asked Mr L about this and he said two 
installers removed the old cooker using a rubber wheeled sack barrow, and replaced it with 
his new cooker using the same barrow. He said the installers lifted the cooker into place 
from the barrow.
As BG said, its a heavy cooker, so Id expect care to be taken on delivery and placement to 
prevent damage to the flooring. Therefore, I have no reason to doubt Mr Ls description of 
the placement.  The evidence doesnt persuade me that the cooker was bounced into place, 
causing subsequent cracking to the tiles across the width of the kitchen.
In summary, there are conflicting views about the cause of the damage, and its difficult to 
determine which view, if any, is correct. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I find Mr 
Ls structural engineers report more persuasive. Therefore, I think its reasonable for BG to 
cash settle the cost of repairs on receipt of two independent quotes.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and British 
Gas Insurance Limited must:
on receipt of two independent quotes, cash settle the cost of the necessary repairs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman