DRN-1679446
The complaint
Mr J complained that TSB Bank Plc hasnt paid him the interest due on his bank account. 
What happened
Mr J went into a TSB branch in February 2017 and switched his Gold account to an interest-
bearing Classic Plus account. One of the criteria for earning interest on this account was that 
the account should be paperless. Mr J realised in May 2019 that he hadnt received interest 
since the account was opened. He went into branch and complained to TSB.  
TSB responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Mr J didnt receive interest 
because he was not registered for paperless correspondence. And being registered for both 
paperless correspondence and paperless statements were conditions of the Classic Plus 
account. TSB said it issued several notifications to Mr J to let him know he was not fully 
paperless and he took no action  but the account has since been changed to fully 
paperless. 
Mr J was unhappy with the response from TSB and brought the complaint to this service. He 
said he went into branch to have the account set up and so staff there should have chosen 
the correct settings for the account. He said hes never received statements through the post 
and had access to these online, so he assumed the account was set up as paperless.
When TSB provided us with the necessary paperwork it said it believed Mr J applied for the 
Classic Plus account online and not in branch, as it didnt have a signed copy of the terms 
and conditions. It also said it regularly reminded Mr J to register the account as paperless. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Js complaint. She said Mr J believed his account was paperless 
because he had received email correspondence and never received statements through the 
post. However, TSB said it sent Mr J paper statements each month. Our investigator said 
she could see that Mr Js account was set for both online and paper correspondence. Mr J 
also said he went into branch and a member of staff set up the account for him, while TSB 
said Mr J set up the account online. 
Our investigator said these differing versions of events meant it wasnt fair for TSB to rely on 
the assumption that Mr J had set up the account online. She said its understandable why 
Mr J didnt think he needed to change his paperless options, because he was already 
receiving paperless correspondence in his inbox. Our investigator said TSB hadnt shown 
that Mr J caused the error and so the fairest resolution was to give Mr J the benefit of the 
doubt and pay him the interest he would have been entitled to from the date he opened the 
account to the date his account became fully paperless. 
TSB disagreed with our investigators assessment. It provided us with signed terms and 
conditions for a Classic account, which showed this account was set up in branch on the 
same day the Classic Plus account was set up. It said there were no signed terms and 
conditions for the Classic Plus account. It also reiterated that it repeatedly asked Mr J to sign 
up for paperless correspondence both online and in branch. And because Mr J didnt 
respond to these prompts, it shouldnt have to pay interest prior to Mr J signing up for 
paperless correspondence in May 2019. Our investigator issued a second assessment, but the outcome was unchanged. She said 
TSB doesnt believe Mr J opened the Classic Plus account in branch because the only 
signed terms and conditions were for a Classic account. However, records show both 
accounts were opened on the same day, with Mr J first of all opening the Classic account 
then immediately switching to the Classic Plus account, so its clear both accounts were 
opened in branch and so TSB is responsible for the error made when setting up the account 
and should pay the interest. 
Our investigator also said TSB tried to let Mr J know on numerous occasions that his 
account wasnt fully paperless. However Mr J had been receiving online statements in his 
inbox at the time and believed the he was already paperless. Our investigator said it seemed 
fair to not award compensation to Mr J for any trouble and upset caused by TSBs error 
given that TSB tried to notify Mr J that his account wasn't registered as paperless. 
TSB remained unhappy with the outcome. It added that while it would always tell the 
customer about the criteria for earning interest on the Classic Plus account, it is not 
compulsory to register the customers account in branch as paperless. Mr J was already 
registered for Internet Banking and could have done this at home. 
So the complaint has come to me to review. In an attempt to resolve this matter informally, I 
contacted TSB and outlined the reasons why I intended to uphold this complaint. And this 
was largely for the same reasons as our investigator. I also asked TSB to calculate the 
interest owed to Mr J. 
TSB disagreed for the reasons already outlined. It also said staff in branch could not have 
set up the account as paperless as Mr J could only have made changes to his account by 
logging onto his own internet banking. It said it doesnt have the facility to change a 
customers paper preferences on its IT system. In addition, TSB said Mr J wouldnt have 
received the full amount of interest each month as his account balance was sometimes 
lower than the maximum needed to earn interest. It said calculating any interest owed would 
be very difficult. TSB also said Mr J has a responsibility to review his statements regularly 
and its clear he wasnt doing this as he waited nearly nineteen months before raising a 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Although the terms and conditions TSB provided us with relate to a Classic account, records 
show the Classic Plus account was opened immediately after the Classic account. The fact 
that the terms and conditions were signed shows that Mr J went into branch to switch from 
his existing account. Mr J said he was initially going to open a Classic account but the 
member of staff assisting him suggested the interest-bearing Classic Plus account. And he 
readily agreed that an interest-bearing account was a better option for him. So Im satisfied 
that Mr J went into branch and was assisted by a member of staff to set up the Classic Plus 
account.  
TSB suggested members of staff wouldnt have been able to make amendments to Mr Js 
account, such as setting it up as paperless and that he would have to make these changes 
himself. But Mr J said when he went into branch and made this complaint in 2019, a member 
of staff made his account paperless for him then. And TSB records also suggest this was the 
case. The records say  these were the findings of the person who logged the complaint also, 
assuming they then properly registered the customer for paperless to unsure he receives 
interest going forward. Im satisfied this comment wouldnt have been made if it wasnt 
possible for a member of staff to register Mr Js account as paperless. So, if its possible for 
a member of staff to amend the account settings in 2019, then Im satisfied this could have 
been done when Mr J switched the account in branch in 2017. 
I agree that it isnt compulsory for a member of staff to register a customers account as 
paperless when an account is being switched. But if a member of staff agrees to help with 
the switch and set the account up, so has gone beyond simply telling Mr J about the criteria, 
then that member of staff should make sure everything necessary to set the account up 
properly is done. Mr J is allowed to rely on what he has been told has been done.
And if the member of staff hadnt set the account up as paperless, then it should have been 
made clear to Mr J that he needed to take further action when he next logged onto his 
account. Im satisfied that if Mr J had been told he needed to go home and ensure he set his 
account to paperless then he would have done this. And this is because the primary reason 
for him switching to that particular account was so that he would receive interest on his 
balance. 
To sum up, Im satisfied that if the member of staff who assisted Mr J had set the account up 
correctly, so as a completely paperless account, then this complaint would never have 
arisen. And, as long as he fulfilled all the other criteria, Mr J would have been earning 
interest immediately. The fact that Mr J didnt earn interest in the way he hoped is because 
of the oversight made by the member of staff. And I think a fair outcome is for TSB to take 
responsibility for this. 
TSB have placed a good deal of emphasis on the fact that it asked Mr J on numerous 
occasions to go paperless after the account was opened. But Im satisfied that Mr J, who has 
provided a consistent account of what happened, seems to have thought the account had 
been fully set up for him in branch and genuinely thought he didnt need to take any further 
action in relation to going paperless. I know that TSB has said it was sending statements to 
Mr Js home address, but Mr J said he didnt receive these and provided evidence that he 
had access to his statements online. 
Putting things right
With regard to the amount of redress in this case, TSB suggested it would be difficult to 
calculate precisely the amount of interest Mr J might have earned, because he didnt always 
maintain the necessary minimum account balance. But I think it needs to do just that, as it is 
the fairest outcome for both parties. I also think it would be fair to add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date the account was set up to the date Mr J complained in branch.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I order TSB Bank Plc to pay the interest Mr J would have earned on his Classic Plus account 
from the date he switched to that account in February 2017 to the date he complained to 
TSB Bank Plc in May 2019. Interest at a rate of 8% per annum simple needs to be added 
until the date of settlement. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.Martina Ryan
Ombudsman