DRN-4456491
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) unfairly declined his claims 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare product he purchased with a loan they provided to him.    
What happened
Mr Ms loan was originally provided by another financial business. That business sold its 
loans to a different business, and these are ultimately now owned and serviced by Tandem. 
For simplicity, I will refer to the lender as being Tandem at all times throughout my decision.
In or around March 2019, Mr M was on holiday using an existing timeshare product supplied 
to him by a timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as A. During his holiday, Mr M was 
approached by A for a catch-up meeting. 
As a result of the meeting, Mr M agreed to trade in his existing timeshare product and 
purchase a points-based product providing access to a portfolio of holidays, accommodation 
and experiences offered by A. The purchase required a payment by Mr M of £15,950 which 
was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement with Tandem over 180 months.
In March 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr M submitted a claim to 
Tandem under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
The PR alleged that the points-based product had been misrepresented to Mr M as an 
investment contrary to regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare, Holiday Products and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the TRs). They also said Mr M was told the points-based 
product was more flexible given Mr Ms personal circumstances. But this didnt prove to be 
the case. The PR allege that Mr M purchased the product having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by A. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), BPF is jointly liable 
for those misrepresentations. 
The PR allege there is a breach of contract as A is in liquidation and cant provide the 
service sold. 
The PR also suggest that the misrepresentations, together with various regulatory and 
legislative breaches amongst other things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
section 140 of the CCA (S140A). In particular: 
Mr M was aggressively targeted and pressured in to entering the agreement, contrary 
to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT);
the payment of commission by Tandem to A was hidden from Mr M;
there were no comparisons to other loan companies, and it wasnt mentioned that Mr 
M was free to arrange his own finance; and
no checks and tests were carried out to ensure the loan was sustainably affordable 
for Mr M.
In response, Tandem didnt uphold Mr Ms claim. They didnt agree there was any evidence 
to support the alleged misrepresentations. Or that there was evidence of anything likely to 
lead a court to find that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair pursuant to S140A. 
Tandem said full credit checks were completed including affordability and eligibility. They 
also didnt agree there was any evidence of a breach of contract.
Unhappy with Tandems response, the PR referred Mr Ms claim to this service as a 
complaint. One of our investigators considered all the evidence and information available. 
Having done so, they didnt think Tandems response to Mr Ms claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. So, didnt think Tandem needed to do anything more. 
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for Mr Ms complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. In doing so, they made various points and 
observations to support why they werent in agreement with our investigator. They explained 
that previous timeshare products supplied to Mr M by A had also been represented as 
investments. But due to difficulties in both using and later trying to sell the products, Mr M 
was persuaded to upgrade to the points-based product. The PR insist that the alleged 
misrepresentations and failings were common placed in the testimonies and experiences of 
other consumers.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mr Ms complaint has been forward to me to 
consider further. Having done so, while I reached a similar outcome to that of our 
investigator, I considered various aspects that I feel werent fully addressed previously. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2023, giving Mr M and 
Tandem Personal Loans Ltd the opportunity to respond to my findings, before I reach a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
M paid for the timeshare product under a regulated loan agreement with Tandem, so 
it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means Mr M is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 140A (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr M and 
Tandem arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related 
agreements). And because the product was funded under the credit agreement, they 
are deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe Tandems treatment of Mr 
Ms claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available. 
This service isnt able to make legal findings  as Ive already said, that is the role of 
the courts. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted 
by the consumer, we do not provide a legal service. Where a consumer doesnt 
accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their 
claim in other ways.
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct AuthorityWhere evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr Ms timeshare product experience
Based upon the information available, at the time of the product sale in March 2019 it 
appears Mr M was an existing customer of A and had previously bought timeshare 
products from them. In particular, hed bought products from A in November 2014 
and April 2017. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr M had a reasonably 
strong awareness about the products hed purchased, how they operated and any 
associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that Mr M was familiar with 
A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales presentations given by them. Particularly 
as the presentation referred to in 2019 (the subject of his claim here) wasnt his first 
experience.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr M something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr M to enter the contract. This means I would need to be 
persuaded that Mr M reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr M was specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product he purchased here. It was, 
however, indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I 
havent seen any documentation which supports the assertions in Mr Ms claim, such 
as marketing material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what 
he says he was told. In particular that the product purchased was represented as a 
financial investment.
I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary 
to The TRs simply because there might have been some inherent value to Mr Ms 
membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to 
suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
purchased. A would had to have presented the membership in such a way that used 
its investment element to persuade Mr M to contract. Only then would it have fallen 
foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an 
investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. 
Subsequent submissions to this service by the PR appear to suggest the points-
based product was represented as a means to make it easier for Mr M to exit from 
his timeshare holdings. And that the new product points were represented as having 
the ability to be sold from 2023. Ive found nothing within the documentation provided 
that appears to provide any guarantees or assurances about the resale of the points 
Mr M purchased.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. The breach of contract claim under S75
Tandem have said that whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mr M believes theres been a breach 
of contract which resulted in a loss for him, I havent seen anything that would lead 
me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Tandem) and the debtor (Mr 
M) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
As Ive said previously, its important to acknowledge that only a court can make a 
determination under S140A. But as this is relevant law, I need to take it into account 
in reaching my decision  where appropriate.
The pressured sale and process
The claim and subsequent submissions set out an allegation that Mr M was 
subjected to a pressurised sale. I acknowledge what has been said about the sales 
presentation he attended. And I can appreciate why the presentation might have felt 
like a pressured sale  especially if, as Mr M approached the closing stages, he was 
going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer 
that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr M agreed to the purchase in 2019 when he simply didnt want 
to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to 
A, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to it when he didnt want to. And he 
hasnt provided a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek to cancel 
the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here. 
If Mr M only agreed to the purchase because he felt he was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr M was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate he 
made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise choice was  or was 
likely to have been  significantly impaired. 
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[Tandem] and matters relating to the debtor [Mr M]).
Mr M had already held existing timeshare products hed purchased previously from 
A. Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade and/or change 
from his existing timeshare product holding at the time. It doesnt appear it was his 
first product purchase from A and Mr M wasnt a new customer. So, its likely he 
wouldve benefitted from his previous experience and what might be expected from 
the meeting and sales presentation in 2019.Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mr Ms overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr Ms S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer of the 
loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards him. In particular, its argued that the 
payment of commission by Tandem to A was kept from him. But it appears no 
commission was in fact paid here. And in any event. I dont think any payment of 
commission to A was incompatible with its role in the transaction anyway. 
A wasnt acting as an agent of Mr M, but as the supplier of contractual rights he 
obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based 
upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr M advice or information on that basis. 
As far as Im aware, Mr M was always at liberty to choose how he wanted to fund the 
transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Tandem wouldve been under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these 
circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion or evidence that Mr M requested those 
details from Tandem or A. As I understand it, where commission is paid, the typical 
amounts paid to suppliers (like A in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 
10%. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find that any 
non-disclosure and payment of commission wouldve created an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under S140A.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr Ms claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether Tandem undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The PR allege a proper affordability check wasnt completed.
Its relevant that the PR havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr M. And Ive not seen anything that supports any 
suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
Tandem have explained to this service the affordability assessment they completed 
which they believe showed the loan was sustainably affordable for him.  If I were to 
find that the checks and tests completed by Tandem didnt comply with the regulatory 
guidelines and requirements that applied  and I make no such finding  I would 
need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed 
that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr M in order to uphold 
his complaint here. And I dont believe any proven compliance failure would 
automatically mean that Mr Ms loan agreement was null and void in any event. It 
would need to be shown that any such failure resulted in a loss to Mr M as a 
consequence.
Ive seen no specific information about Mr Ms actual position at the time and no 
supporting evidence that he struggled to maintain repayments. Tandem have 
confirmed that Mr Ms repayments have been maintained in line with the loan 
agreement. Based upon these findings, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was 
unaffordable for him or that he suffered any loss as a consequence.
SummaryAs Ive explained above, I can only consider whether Tandems treatment and 
response to Mr Ms claim appears fair and reasonable given all the information 
available. Based upon my findings, I cant say that it wasnt. So, as things currently 
stand, I dont intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tandem have acknowledged receipt of my provisional findings and confirmed they have 
nothing further to add. Despite follow up attempts by this service, the PR havent responded 
or provided anything new for me to consider. In these circumstances, I have no reason to 
vary from the findings in my provisional decision. So, I wont be asking Tandem to do 
anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman