DRN-2374475
The complaint
A business, that Ill refer to as D, complain that Covea Insurance plc declined their claim for 
business interruption. Mr F, a director of D, has brought the complaint to us on Ds behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
This had a significant impact on Ds business. In particular, they said their business ground 
to halt and they had to close their office (because it was opposite a care homes office). 
D held a business insurance policy with Covea. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim in April 2020. But Covea declined it. It said the policy primarily covered D 
for business interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered 
damage by the policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the discovery of certain kinds of disease at Ds premises. But 
Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. D complained to us, but 
our investigator thought the terms had been applied fairly. D disagreed, so Ive been asked 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on D had a considerable financial impact. 
And I was sorry to hear they havent been able to get government assistance, which means 
a pay out under their insurance policy could make all the difference in terms of saving jobs. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether there are 
any sections that would require Covea to meet their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in 
full, Ive only addressed those sections most relevant to Ds circumstances.
Damage
The core business interruption cover in Ds policy is for:
Interruption or interference with the Business carried on by You at the Premises in 
consequence of Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance to any property 
used by You at the Premises for the purposes of the Business.
Damage is defined in the policy as loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded. 
I havent seen anything to indicate theres been loss, destruction or damage to Ds property, 
so I dont think cover applies under this term. 
Prevention of access
This extension covers D for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of Damage to 
property within 1 kilometre of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or 
prevents access to the Premises
Ive equally seen nothing to indicate Covid-19 has caused damage by the policy definition to 
property within one kilometre of Ds premises. So, Im satisfied the claim isnt covered under 
this extension either. 
Compulsory closure
This extension covers D for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from:
(a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the 
Premises
A definition is given in the policy terms for Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious 
Disease which is:
Those diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 
1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Legionellosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough, Yellow fever.
No other disease will be added to the above list without Our prior written consent.
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this section 
of the policy wouldnt cover the business interruption caused as a result of the restrictions 
introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Ds policy includes a list of notifiable diseases at a particular time. And theres 
nothing in the policy which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, 
including any new diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. 
Indeed, it says no other diseases will be added to the above list without Coveas written 
consent, which Im satisfied has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to discoveries of 
those notifiable diseases mentioned in the list.  Furthermore, the term requires there to have been a discovery of one of these diseases at 
Ds premises. To my knowledge, D havent suggested that Covid-19 was discovered at their 
premises, or that anyone was later found to have been suffering from symptoms of Covid-19 
whilst at the premises. So, even if Covid-19 was covered, Ds claim still wouldnt be.  
D have also referred to the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this 
only affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek 
to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which 
does not include Covid-19, as is the case here. 
Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to D, I havent found that any 
sections of their policy require Covea to cover their claim. So, I wont be asking Covea to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman