DRN-3227347
The complaint
Miss B complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA refused her claim under their buyer
protection scheme, after she purchased a furniture set that she says wasnt as advertised.  
What happened
Miss B purchased a set of dining furniture from a seller online, paying via PayPal. Two days
after it was delivered, she noticed some defects with the furniture. These included poor
paintwork and visible joins. But more serious were a large jagged crack in the frame of one
of the chairs, a hole in one of the seats, and a seat that wasnt attached properly to the
frame and hung off when turned upside down.
She also complained that the large carver chairs dont fit under the table when another chair
is alongside them.
Miss B contacted the seller and raised her concerns. The seller advised that they could try to
find replacements for the larger chairs, but that they were designed to sit at the ends of the
table and this is how they were shown in the online advert.
The seller also said that they felt the chairs were undamaged when they were delivered, and
Miss B didnt comment on any faults at the time.
Miss B asked to return the chairs for a full refund. The seller refused, so Miss B raised a
dispute with PayPal. PayPal said the items didnt meet their terms for a refund, as there was
no proof they were significantly not as described.
They said that the items were sold as second hand, so it was reasonable to expect some
imperfections. And they said that finding damage after two days didnt prove that the
damage was there when the items were delivered. Based on this, they found in favour of the
seller.
Miss B complained, but PayPal maintained their position, so the complaint was referred to
our service.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He felt it was likely that the furniture had defects on
delivery, as they were discovered after only two days and didnt look like fresh damage. He
also said it was reasonable for refurbished items to have some imperfections. But the large
crack and the hole werent acceptable. So he asked PayPal to pay £75 compensation for
this.
Miss B initially disagreed with and said that the items were sold as new, not used. But she
didnt have any proof of this as the advert had been taken down. Our investigator said that,
based on the sellers profile on various websites, he felt it was likely the chairs were sold as
upcycled or refurbished. So he said £75 was still a fair level of compensation. Miss B
eventually accepted this.
PayPal didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said that as the advert had been
removed, they had no proof if any defects were mentioned. And it wasnt reasonable to side
with Miss B without proof. So the case came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 December 2021. In it, I said:
The relevant term in PayPals buyer protection says that a consumer may be eligible for a
refund when an item is materially different from the sellers description of it, or the condition
of the item is misrepresented.
So the crux of this complaint is whether the furniture delivered to Miss B was materially
different from the sellers description and whether it matched the condition described.
The first thing to consider is that the carver chairs dont fit under the side of the table with
another chair alongside. The seller says theyre designed this way and all photographs in the
advert show them at the end of the table on their own. Miss B doesnt dispute this, so Im
satisfied she wasnt misled about this.
The next thing to consider is whether the furniture was in the condition Miss B says it was
when it arrived, or whether the defects could have happened after delivery.
The seller said that the furniture wasnt damaged when it was delivered. They highlighted
that Miss B didnt mention anything on delivery and that her partner was sitting in one of the
chairs when they left.
Miss B said the delivery took place around 8pm, so it was already dark. They were also in
the middle of putting their children to bed, so didnt have time to fully inspect the furniture.
We dont know for sure the exact condition of the furniture on delivery. But I dont think its
unreasonable for some defects not to be noticed as soon as an item arrives. And as they
were reported within two days, Im satisfied that the defects Miss B describes were there
when the items were delivered.
The next thing to consider is the way the furniture was described by the seller. This is difficult
to know for certain, as the advert was removed when the sale was agreed. But Miss B has
provided adverts for other items sold by the same seller. And Ive been able to view this 
sellers profile on other websites they sell on.
These adverts and profiles describe the sellers products as handmade rustic furniture and
upcycled vintage furniture. Based on this evidence, and Miss Bs testimony, I think its more
likely than not that the dining set in question was also advertised this way.
Our investigator said that it was reasonable for an upcycled or refurbished item to show
some defects. And I agree that an upcycled item isnt the same as buying something brand
new.
But I also dont think its the same as simply buying something second-hand and expecting
wear and tear and potential damage. The sellers descriptions clearly suggest furniture that
have been handcrafted. So its reasonable for Miss B to expect the items to be well made
and free from any major defects.
Having looked at the photos provided by Miss B, Im satisfied that there are some serious
defects with the furniture. These include a large, jagged crack all the way through the frame
of one of the chairs, a hole in the seat of a chair, and a seat that flaps open as it isnt
attached properly.PayPal argue that theres no proof these defects werent described in the advert. But I think
its unlikely Miss B would have purchased this set of furniture if shed been told about these
faults.
On this basis, the items dont match the description or condition they were sold under. So I
think Miss B is eligible for buyer protection under PayPals terms.
I therefore require PayPal to refund £350 to Miss B. They should also pay 8% simple interest
on top of this amount, from the date the dispute was first closed to the date the payment was 
made.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Bs complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision, Miss B has replied to say she agrees with all the 
points. 
She specifically says that she wouldnt have purchased the furniture if shed known about 
the defects. And she says that the cracks have got bigger and the seat has now fallen out of 
one of the chairs. The set is therefore completely unusable.
PayPal have also replied, explaining why they dont accept my decision. Ill address the 
points theyve made below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal have provided a copy of Miss Bs complaint, which states she was initially unhappy 
that she couldnt fit two chairs under the sides of the table and therefore eat together as a 
family. It was only after this that any issue with damage was raised. 
Ive thought about this, but it doesnt change my decision about the damage. I dont think its 
unreasonable that some damage wasnt noticed immediately. And just because Miss B was 
unhappy with this issue, it doesnt mean that the furniture wasnt also damaged.
Looking at the photos of the defects and thinking about the fact it was reported within two 
days of receipt, Im satisfied that the furniture was already damaged when it was delivered.
PayPal have also said that the seller sold the item as is, and provided 20 photos of the 
furniture in the advert, which Miss B doesnt dispute. They also say the seller claims that the 
furniture was second-hand, not refurbished, which Miss B accepts.
However, this isnt correct. Miss B has maintained all along that the furniture wasnt sold as 
second hand. And from looking at the profiles for this seller on various websites, I havent 
seen any furniture that hes advertised as second hand. Based on this, Im satisfied that the 
furniture was advertised as refurbished and hand-crafted. And as I said before, this implies 
that the items to be well made and free from any major defects.
Although the advert had 20 photos, theres no evidence of what these photos showed. And 
as I said before, I dont think Miss B would have purchased the furniture if theyd showed the 
defects that Ive seen in the photos provided. So I dont think its likely that the photos in the 
advert showed these.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss Bs complaint against PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA.
To put things right, I require PayPal to refund £350 to Miss B. They should also pay 8% 
simple interest on top of this amount, from the date the dispute was first closed to the date 
the payment is made.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman