DRN-4138541
The complaint
Mr C complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for his car 
following an accident which led to it being written off. Hes also unhappy his car was sold 
before the settlement was agreed.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr C insured his car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. 
In August 2022, Mr C was unfortunately involved in a car accident. Admiral subsequently 
deemed the car to be a total loss and offered £4,850 to settle the claim, less the deductibles 
such as Mr Cs excess.
Mr C didnt agree this was a fair value and said further damage occurred due to Admirals 
delay in collection his car which allowed water damage to occur. He felt, if this hadnt 
happened, his car wouldnt have been written off. He was also unhappy with Admirals 
service - his car had been sold before the claim had been settled when he felt he was clear 
he didnt want this to happen. 
Admiral did uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said the value had been calculated after considering 
data from two motor trade guides (which gave values of £3,830 and £4,800). It also obtained 
an independent engineers valuation which came to £3,742.50. Admiral didnt agree the time 
it took to collect the car caused further damage. It also said Mr C told it he didnt want to 
retain the car, so Admiral arranged for it to be sold. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. Two Investigators at 
this service reviewed the evidence including valuations from market trade guides provided 
by the business and obtained by this service as well as advert evidence from Mr C. 
Ultimately, the most recent Investigator considered Admirals offer to be fair as the motor 
trade guide which valued Mr Cs car did so at a lower amount. However, they felt Admirals 
service fell below the standard Mr C was entitled to expect, including disposing of his car 
without permission, and awarded £500 compensation for this. 
Mr C didnt agree with this  he said his car was worth more and wanted this service to rely 
on the valuation the first Investigator obtained (of £7,852) which is a more accurate reflection 
of the cost of a like for like vehicle and aligns with what he paid for the car less than a year 
prior. And he questioned how a valuation from a single motor trade guide can fluctuate so 
much in a short period of time.
Admiral didnt agree either. It said Mr C said he didnt want to retain the car. However, it 
offered £200 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain my decision.
Valuation
It may be helpful to explain that my role isnt to give an exact value of Mr Cs car. Instead, 
my role is to decide whether Admiral has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think it has. Ill explain why below. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle. The policy defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happenedThis value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy also say: 
If your car is a total loss, your car will become our propertyWe will deduct any 
outstanding premium owed to us from any claims settlement we make to you as we 
will have met our responsibilities under the policy.
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it determined to be £4,850. Admiral referred to two trade guides and an engineers 
report to do this. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. Wed use a similar 
approach and the same trade guides to help decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing 
second-hand vehicles. And we find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value, 
mostly because their valuations are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures.
I can see the motor trade guides used by Admiral and the engineers valuation were for cars 
of the same make, model, age, condition and mileage as Mr Cs at the date of its loss. And 
Admirals offer was above all the valuations provided. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr C says the car will cost more to replace and was more when he 
bought it, Im not persuaded this impacts the market value Admiral is required to offer here. 
This is because I havent seen any evidence to suggest the offer made isnt a fair one. 
I appreciate Mr C sent Admiral and this service adverts with values ranging from £6,000 to 
£18,995. But the majority of these adverts arent a reasonable comparison as there are 
significant variations from Mr Cs car such as colour, model, mileage and age. The car 
advertised which is closest to Mr Cs in age, model, colour and mileage was sent to us by Mr 
C in April when it was being advertised for £7,750. However, its currently being advertised 
for £5,550 so I dont consider this is persuasive evidence the offer made by Admiral is unfair. 
I acknowledge what Mr C says about the high valuation obtained by a previous Investigator. 
Having obtained a copy of this, I consider its an outlier. I say this because Ive also seen 
other valuations from the same motor trade guide over several months, all of which are 
below the offer made by Admiral. Ive also seen other adverts for similar vehicles which are 
below the amount offered.Taking everything into account, I dont consider Admiral acted unfairly in reaching the offer 
for the market value it did for Mr Cs car at the time directly before the loss. It follows I dont 
require Admiral to increase its offer of £4,850.
Further damage caused to the car
Admiral explains it obtained an engineers report which said, although there was evident 
liquid, it was coolant and there were no other signs of water damage to the car. This report 
also stated that the repair costs were valued higher than the value of Mr Cs vehicle and this 
is the reason it would never have attempted to repair it. I havent seen any evidence this isnt 
correct, so, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint on this point.
Poor service
At various points in the claim, Mr C clearly told Admiral he doesnt accept the valuation for 
his car but doesnt consent to it being salvaged. But I also acknowledge Admirals point - Mr 
C said in one email that he didnt want to retain the car. Even so, the policy states the 
vehicle becomes Admirals property at the point the claim is settled. And, at the time of the 
relevant email from Mr C which Admiral is seeking to rely on - and when Mr Cs car was 
disposed of - the claim hadnt been settled. I therefore consider Mr Cs car was disposed of 
too early by Admiral. And I note Admiral tried to stop the disposal, but was too late.
Admiral agreed there were times its service was poor and considered £200 a fair amount for 
this. But I dont agree this goes far enough considering the early disposal of Mr Cs car. 
Taking everything into consideration, its my view the amount of £500 recommended by the 
Investigator fairly resolves this part of the complaint. 
I recognise Mr C will be disappointed, but this ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute 
with Admiral can do for him.
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay £500 to Mr C as compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay £500 to Mr C as compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman