DRN-4379226
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) charged her an additional premium.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a travel insurance policy underwritten by AWP. Mrs S is unhappy that she 
was asked to pay an additional premium for a medical condition that had resolved.
Mrs S complained to AWP but it said it had calculated her additional premium correctly.
Unhappy, she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AWP had unfairly or incorrectly 
charged an additional premium based on information provided by the underwriter. 
Mrs S disagreed and said she didnt want to pay the additional premium and wanted the 
condition excluded as it wasnt something she still suffered from.
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy includes no screen medical conditions. Anything listed is automatically 
covered without an additional premium. 
Mrs S called to discuss her conditions at renewal and found that she had been 
charged for conditions on the no screen list. AWP refunded the premium that had 
been paid which was fair and reasonable. 
But AWP charged Mrs S an additional premium in relation to a condition which she 
told it about as it wasnt on the no screen list. Mrs S doesnt think this is fair as the 
condition had resolved. AWP has provided information from its underwriter to show 
that the premium charged is the same that would be charged of anyone in Mrs S 
position. 
Mrs S has said that she didnt want to pay the premium and wanted to exclude the 
condition instead. But there is no option to exclude conditions in this way and 
anything on the no screen list would need to be declared. If the question asks for 
details of medical conditions within a specific time period, they need to be declared, 
even if theyre resolved or no longer a problem. Once declared, AWP would calculate 
the risk and decide if an additional premium would be payable. This isnt unfair or 
unreasonable as an insurer can decide the risk it is prepared to take and the way it 
calculates premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman