DRN-4076468
The complaint
Mr E complains about advice he received from Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) 
in relation to the transfer of benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme. 
What happened
Mr E holds benefits in a DB scheme from a period of previous employment. Because of the 
nature of those pension benefits, Mr E was required to take financial advice if he was 
considering transferring them  something which he says he was interested in. I understand 
the employer with which the benefits were accrued agreed to subsidise advice taken by 
pension fund members if this was done through its chosen provider. That provider was 
Origen.
Origen says its records show Mr E first contacted it to discuss his pension in November 
2021. It says Mr E made it clear at that stage that he wanted to transfer his benefits. But 
Origen explained that it was required to consider his circumstances and provide advice on 
what was in his best interests.
Mr E confirmed in late December 2021 that he wished to proceed with advice from Origen 
and a fee was agreed for this.
Origen requested information from the trustees of the DB scheme to assist with its analysis. 
A response was not received from the trustees. So, to expedite matters, Origen asked Mr E 
to also contact the trustees. And following Mr Es contact the trustees provided Origen the 
information it required.
Origen also completed a fact-find with Mr E to gather information about his circumstances 
and objectives. It recorded that he was 54, in good health, married with no other financial 
dependents and he worked full time on a self-employed basis. Mr E planned to continue 
working until age 65 although he wanted to change the contracts he undertook, to have 
additional time at home. He and Mrs Es combined household income comfortably exceeded 
their outgoings, and this wasnt expected to change even though changing the contracts 
Mr E worked on could alter his income. The DB scheme made up the majority of Mr Es 
retirement provisions. And Mr E wanted to transfer so that he could take his pension benefits 
flexibly when he wanted to.
Origen also carried out an assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk which it deemed to be 
moderately cautious.
On 7 February 2022, Origen and Mr E discussed its advice. Origen said its recommendation 
was that Mr E did not transfer his pension. Mr E was unhappy with this recommendation. As 
a result, Origen offered Mr E the option of ending the advice process at that stage and 
waiving its fee. Mr E however chose to continue.
Origen sent Mr E a report on 16 February 2022, summarising its recommendation. It 
repeated that its recommendation was he retain his DB scheme benefits and not transfer as 
he had no immediate need to draw benefits or take an additional income and the DB scheme 
provided valuable safeguarded benefits.
Mr E indicated he was unhappy with this advice and still wished to proceed with a transfer. 
Origen provided Mr E with confirmation he had received regulated pension transfer advice. It 
also explained that it would consider a request to transfer, treating Mr E as an insistent 
client, as this was a service it did offer. But before it would do so, it asked Mr E for an in-
depth explanation of his reasons for wanting to do so  including a detailed explanation of 
why he disagreed with the advice, what action he intended to take, confirmation he 
understood the relevant risks and why they were acceptable to him. 
Mr E said it was his decision and his right to transfer and declined to provide any further 
explanation.  
Origen considered this response but decided it wasnt willing to proceed on an insistent 
client basis.
Mr E complained to Origen about the advice it had given, saying he didnt think it had 
properly considered his circumstances. He was also unhappy that it had asked him to 
contact the trustees of the DB scheme, saying this was part of the service he had paid 
Origen for.
Origen didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, while Mr E had been clear throughout 
that he wanted to transfer, it felt it had also been clear that it would be providing advice in 
line with the requirements of the regulator. And that its advice may be different to what Mr E 
wanted. It felt the advice it had given was suitable. And it didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably when asking Mr E to contact the trustees to speed up the provision of 
information. And, as it had provided advice as agreed, it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong by charging the agreed fee.
Mr E asked our service to consider his complaint, noting that the transfer value of his DB 
scheme benefits had fallen significantly. So, he felt he had lost out because of Origens 
actions.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think Origen had done anything 
wrong. He didnt think it was unreasonable that Origen had asked Mr E for help in prompting 
the trustees of the DB scheme to provide the requested information. And he thought the 
advice it had given was reasonable and based on its understanding of his circumstances 
and needs  as required by the regulator. The Investigator didnt think it was unreasonable 
that Origen wanted an explanation from Mr E, to ensure he understood the risks involved, 
before agreeing to proceed on an insistent client basis. Or, when this was not forthcoming, 
that it had declined to proceed, particularly given Origen was not required to provide this 
service. And he noted that Origen had given Mr E the option to end the advice process 
without the fee being charged but he had chosen to continue and received the service 
Origen agreed to provide. So, he didnt think the advice fee should be refunded.
Mr E did not accept the Investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS).  And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr E says that he had decided to transfer his benefits having given it careful consideration 
and he would not take no for an answer as this was his right. But, while Mr E mightve 
decided what he wanted to do beforehand, he was required to take regulated financial 
advice before he could transfer from his DB scheme. And a transfer couldnt proceed without 
him taking this advice. He wasnt restricted to seeking advice from Origen and could have 
approached alterative advisers.
Mr E asked Origen for advice. Origens role, as a regulated financial adviser, wasnt however 
just to put in place what Mr E wanted. And Im satisfied, from the information provided about 
the contact and discussions between the parties, it was clear from the outset about this and 
that its recommendation may not be in line with his wishes. And again, Mr E was free to seek 
advice from another business.
Origen needed to look at Mr Es circumstances and objectives. Origen has provided a copy 
of the fact find it completed. I think this supports that it did take the time to understand Mr Es 
circumstances before giving advice - which was in line with the requirements of it. And the 
information recorded was reflected in the subsequent advice. Its also clear that it sought 
information about his DB scheme and the benefits this entitled Mr E to.
Mr E says he is unhappy that Origen asked him to contact the trustees of the DB scheme as 
part of gathering that information. But I dont think Origens request was unreasonable. 
Origen could not compel the trustees to provide information. And it was clear that Mr E 
wanted to proceed with advice. It has said that, in its experience, the policy holder reiterating 
an information request can result in information being provided sooner. And this seems to 
have been what happened here. So, this request was made in the interests of providing the 
requested advice as promptly as possible. I dont agree with Mr E that this request means 
that Origen failed to provide the service it was supposed to. And Mr E couldve declined to 
contact the trustees had he wanted to. 
After gathering this information Origen needed to consider this, have regard for the relevant 
rules and regulations  not least COBS 9 which deals with the obligations when giving a 
personal recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer  and recommend what it believed to be in Mr Es 
best interests. It also had to bear in mind that the FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And so, Origen 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Es best interests.
Origens recommendation report set out why it didnt recommend a transfer. While Mr E 
indicated he wanted to take tax free cash, Origen didnt think he had a need for this based 
on what it recorded about his circumstances, including his income and financial situation. 
And I think this conclusion was reasonable based on the information available to Origen. 
While Mr E wanted flexibility, he didnt require an income from the pension at that time as he 
intended to continue to work and his and Mrs Es combined income comfortably met their 
recorded needs. So, Origen concluded he didnt need to make a decision about transferring, 
which was irreversible, at that point. And I also think this was a reasonable conclusion.
The recommendation explained that Origens analysis also indicated that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) he was being offered, was significantly less than what it 
was estimated it would cost to replicate the benefits he was giving up. And the annual 
growth rate required of a new pension, after investing the CETV, to allow Mr E to purchase 
equivalent benefits to that his DB scheme would provide at retirement  the critical yield  
was higher than what Origen felt was a realistic rate of return. Meaning he was unlikely to 
improve on the benefits he was already entitled to. So, as Mr Es pension made up the 
majority of his retirement provisions, provided a guaranteed escalating income that would 
meet a significant part of his income needs in retirement without being in danger of running 
out, and bearing in mind his moderately cautious attitude to risk, Origen concluded a transfer 
wasnt in Mr Es best interests.
Based on everything Ive seen; I think Origens conclusion was reasonable. I appreciate that 
Mr E and Origen had differing views of what was in his best interests. But again, it wasnt 
Origens role to simply transact what Mr E wanted. It had to decide what it thought was in his 
best interests  based on the requirements of it set by the regulator. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Origen to reach the view that a transfer was not in his best interests. 
Im also satisfied the time it took Origen to gather information and provide this advice was 
reasonable. And Im also conscious that Origen gave Mr E the option of ending the advice 
process, prior to it providing its written recommendation, and not incurring a fee, but he 
chose to proceed. And given a fee had already been agreed and Origen had reached the 
point of explaining its recommendation verbally, I dont think it needed to give this option 
when it did. 
So, overall, I dont think it has made an error in terms of the advice it gave or the process it 
followed.
After issuing its recommendation, Origen provided Mr E with confirmation that it had given 
him regulated financial advice. And it wasnt required to provide any further service. Origen 
did though say it would consider his request to proceed as an insistent client, as that is a 
service it does offer. But it wasnt obliged or required to provide this service.
Ultimately an application on an insistent client basis did not proceed. This was because Mr E 
did not agree with the information Origen asked him to provide in order to do so. But again, 
Origen was not required to offer the option of proceeding on an insistent client basis. And it 
was entitled to decide its process and requirements for doing so  having regard for the 
relevant regulations. I dont think what Origen requested was unreasonable and indeed, in 
my view, was consistent with the requirements the regulator sets around transacting on an 
insistent client basis in COBS. So, in the circumstances, I dont think Origen has done 
anything wrong by declining to process the transfer here.
Mr E has said that the transfer value of his DB scheme has now fallen significantly. But 
taking everything into account, I dont think Origen has acted incorrectly. So, Im not 
requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman