DRN-4154310
The complaint
Mrs O complained about how her claim was handled and she was unhappy with the cash 
settlement she was offered for repairing damage caused by a water leak in her home. Mrs O 
had a home insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
Mrs O made a claim on her policy when water escaped from her bathroom and started 
leaking through the lounge ceiling. Mrs O said she had emergency home cover, but as she 
didnt receive a timely response she had to commission her own plumber to stop the leak by 
making a temporary repair, which cost £80.
QIC appointed a surveyor to review and validate the claim. Mrs O wouldnt allow technicians 
with drying equipment to enter her home to dry it. She wasnt happy with them entering her 
home with recording equipment (e.g., bodycams). Due to Mrs Os personal circumstances, 
she didnt want the inside of her home to be captured on a video recording. Mrs O was 
asked twice to pay her excess and she wasnt happy her emails werent answered, so QIC 
offered £50 in compensation.
Initially, QIC said it would carry out any necessary work without the activity been recorded on 
video. But QICs compliance team later said this wasnt possible. So, Mrs O felt obliged to 
source her own drying equipment, as the damp was causing damage in her home. As QIC 
wouldnt work without active video recording, it decided it would cash settle the claim for the 
cost it would incur had it done the work itself (i.e., at QIC commercial rates).
Mrs O is concerned the cash settlement wont be enough for her to source her own 
contractors. She is worried the bathroom will not be in service whilst the repairs are in 
progress and that she may incur storage costs for the protection of some of her possessions 
whilst the works are carried out.
Our investigator decided to uphold the claim. He thinks Mrs O has set out reasonably why 
she doesnt want video recording in her home. As QIC was reluctant not to use video 
cameras, he decided QIC should cash settle the claim on market rates, not based on QIC 
commercial rates. He also thought QIC should consider alternative accommodation and 
storage needs in the same way it would for any other claim. He thought QIC should 
reimburse the cost of the dehumidifiers sourced. He awarded an additional £250 
compensation (£300 in total) for the distress and inconvenience caused by QIC delaying the 
claim.
QIC disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O asked for the cost of the temporary repair to her bath to be reimbursed as she 
arranged for this work to be done. As QIC arent responsible for repairing the leak under the 
policy, only remedying the damage caused by the leak, I wont be able to consider this point.
However, in respect to whether I think QIC has acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the 
points of this claim, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
During the claim QIC said as you have refused to have any of [our appointed team] in your 
property due to them wearing body cameras, we have opted to cash settle the claim. 
However, in more recent correspondence with our service, QIC have clarified that not all its 
appointed contractors need to wear bodycams, and the network contractors who wouldve 
carried out the scoped works dont wear them.
I cant see evidence that Mrs O was made aware of the availability of QICs contractors to do 
the work when it made its cash offer. Therefore, I dont think the cash offer made to Mrs O 
was fair. I wouldve expected QIC to offer to do the work  if it had done this, I think it 
wouldve been fair to offer a cash settlement consistent with how much it wouldve cost itself 
to do the scope of works.
However, as QIC didnt make Mrs O aware it could do the works itself when making the 
offer, I think the cash offer shouldve been at market rates and not QIC commercial rates. I 
think Mrs O had reasonably set out why she didnt want video recording in her home in her 
circumstances. I think QIC couldve been more flexible in meeting Mrs Os needs when 
settling the claim. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. QIC has since offered to do the work. 
Not surprisingly, Mrs O is reluctant to continue having a relationship with QIC after the recent 
difficulties. She has expressed her desire to have her own independent contractors to do the 
work. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances as I think Mrs O has already suffered 
enough.
Therefore, I require QIC to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
but based on the lowest quote Mrs O provides for her own contractors doing the agreed 
scope of works (she must provide a minimum of two quotes). Mrs O needs to provide this to 
QIC ahead of having the works completed.
Mrs O has expressed her concern that new damage may become apparent when the works 
commence that hasnt been included in the scope for the repairs. If this does occur, Mrs O 
should take detailed pictures of this damage and provide evidence of the costs associated 
with repairing it. She should then send this evidence to QIC and ask QIC to consider it.
Mrs O has expressed concerns of the living conditions and storage requirements when the 
work is carried out. QIC should consider these needs appropriately and apply the conditions 
set out in the policy, or alternatively provide a cash settlement to cover any of its potential 
liabilities.
Finally, I have considered the distress and inconvenience Mrs O has experienced. Its clear 
her circumstances made her vulnerable during the period of the claim. I think there is 
enough evidence during the claim, that QIC shouldve been aware of this. Whilst I think QIC 
has reasonably explained its processes, it hasnt been clear in communicating the options 
open to Mrs O in the settlement of the claim. I think after been aware of the difficulties with 
drying the property, QIC couldve cash settled that element of the claim for what it wouldve 
cost itself. As it didnt I think it should reimburse Mrs O the costs shes incurred for sourcing 
the drying equipment (on production of valid receipts).
I think QIC couldve managed the drying of the property and the settlement better. By not 
doing this has caused delays to Mrs O getting her property repaired, which has left her living 
in less than satisfactory conditions for longer than necessary. I think her vulnerable circumstances will have made the stress she was under more severe. Therefore, Im 
awarding £250 additional compensation (£300 in total). This award includes any additional 
electricity costs incurred in the drying of her property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle the claim based on the lowest of two quotes that Mrs O provides for the agreed 
scope of works
Consider any further repairs (in line with the terms and conditions) that Mrs O 
identifies during the works provided she shares detailed photographic evidence and 
costings
Consider any requirement (in line with the terms and conditions) for alternative 
accommodation or additional storage whilst the works are carried out 
Reimburse the cost of the drying equipment (on production of valid receipts)
Pay Mrs O £250 additional compensation  for distress and inconvenience (plus the 
original £50 offer if it hasnt been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman