DRN-3734811
The complaint
Mr M complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who declined part of 
his claim, on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M returned home to discover that he had been burgled. The thieves had taken several 
items from his property. He reported the theft to the police and RSA. 
During the claims process, RSA asked him what was taken and where in his home had it 
been taken from. Mr M explained that money in an envelope as well as jewellery had been 
taken from his bedside table. That his safe that he had had for around six weeks had also 
been stolen with its contents. 
Around three weeks later, Mr M told RSA that he had left the jewellery in the safe that had 
been taken. But as RSA considered his claim and what he had previously told them in an 
earlier phone call, it declined the jewellery (namely a watch and bracelet) that had been 
stolen. It told Mr M that these had been declined as he hadnt complied with the policy terms. 
As he had told RSA that he had left the jewellery on his bedside table rather than in a safe 
(or wearing them) as specified in his policy. 
Mr M complained to RSA. And said that he hadnt received a copy of his policy with the term 
that related to storing jewellery in a safe. He also said that he was unable to access his 
online account, so that he could check his policy. But in the final response, RSA told Mr M 
that as he hadnt adhered to the policy terms and conditions, then the claim would remain 
declined. It relied on the policy terms to support the declinature. It also said that the policy 
documents had been sent to him to the correct address. So, Mr M referred his complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld. 
She said that as there had been a delay during the claims process, RSA ought to pay Mr M 
£200 compensation for this error. She also recommended that RSA ought to consider the 
claim regarding some jewellery, as this hadnt been completed. She said that it was fair that 
RSA declined the watch and bracelet, as she thought Mr M had, on the balance of 
probabilities, a clearer recollection of the event closer to the incident, rather than later. 
Ultimately, RSA accepted the view, Mr M did not. He said that the safe had been stolen from 
him and it contained everything, which he felt hadnt been considered. He also said that RSA 
hadnt sent him a copy of his policy and he was unable to access his online account and 
wasnt aware of the requirement to keep jewellery in a safe, if not being worn. So, he asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will partially uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this may be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr M returned home to find that his home had been burgled. He described that the thieves 
had taken his newly purchased safe and its contents, as well as money and jewellery. The 
main issues of this complaint are whether RSA fairly declined his claim relating to the watch 
and bracelet. And whether it had sent him his policy documents. 
Early on during the claims process, RSA asked Mr M to explain where his stolen 
possessions where and what was taken. Mr M explained that some of his possessions were 
in a safe in his bedroom and the safe and its contents were stolen. He also explained that on 
his bedside table he had left his jewellery and an envelope of money. 
I have been provided with a copy of the call recording, in which Mr M was asked about the 
burglary. I understand that Mr M said that he made an error when he told RSA that he had 
left his jewellery and cash on his bedside table. He explained that he was in a panic and the 
jewellery had been in the safe that had also been taken. He also said that he told RSA that 
the jewellery had been kept in the safe, albeit around three weeks later. 
Having considered the timeline of events, Im more persuaded, on the balance of 
probabilities, that it was more likely than not that Mr Ms recollection of events would be 
more accurate, closer to the event, rather than around three weeks after the theft. So, whilst 
I dont doubt what Mr M has said, having listened to the call I dont think he sounded 
panicked and I also think he answered the questions asked very clearly. Consequently, I 
dont think that RSA were unreasonable when it declined the claim for the watch and 
bracelet. 
Mr M also complained that he wasnt made aware of the policy term, that meant that he had 
to keep the jewellery in a safe, if he wasnt wearing it. He said that RSA failed to provide him 
with a copy of his policy, and he was unable to access the policy on his online account. 
I have had a look at this further. RSA said that it had sent policy documents to Mr Ms home 
address.  So, Ive looked at the address details that RSA entered on the documents. Our 
approach is to consider whether RSA has done what we would reasonably expect it to do. I 
note that the address that it used, is the same address that Mr M gave our service. And I can 
see that all the details included are correct. 
As there is no evidence to suggest that the documents were undelivered, we would conclude 
that they were delivered. And that RSA did everything that we would expect it to do. 
Accordingly, Im persuaded that the documents were delivered. 
I understand that Mr M has said that he didnt have access to his online account so that he 
could read his policy documents there. But I wouldve expected Mr M to have contacted RSA 
much sooner, and informed them of the access issues he was experiencing, but Ive seen no 
evidence of this. 
Finally, I understand that RSA has agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay Mr M 
£200 compensation for the delay during the claims process. Im satisfied that there was a 
delay, that Mr M had to chase for updates, which would have caused him some 
inconvenience and distress. And I think that its fair and reasonable that RSA pay 
compensation of £200 to Mr M, for this error. Taking all of this into consideration, I do think that Mr M suffered distress and inconvenience 
and I do think that should be reflected in the compensation that RSA ought to pay. So, I think 
its fair and reasonable for RSA to pay a total of £200 to Mr M, for the trouble and upset 
caused. I also think that RSA fairly declined the part of Mr Ms claim regarding the watch and 
bracelet, given the terms and conditions of the policy. And I think that RSA correctly 
addressed the policy documents to Mr M and Im persuaded that they were delivered. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited as indicated below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
To put matters right, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr M £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman