DRN-3296896
The complaint
S, a partnership, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt credit their account with funds 
transferred by a client. Theyre also unhappy that Barclays incorrectly applied charges to one 
of their accounts.
What happened
In mid-2020, a client of S attempted to transfer around £20,000 to an account S held with 
Barclays. About a week later, a business manager from Barclays left S a voicemail asking 
them to contact them. The business manager followed this up with an email asking for 
further information about a transaction made from Ss business account. 
S were concerned about the authenticity of the email because they didnt recognise the 
name of the business manager and the email contained a spelling error. The email referred 
to a transaction made from Ss business account when the transaction was actually being 
made to their client account. The Barclays business manager left a further voicemail and 
sent another email a week later. S say they forwarded the email to Barclays Internet 
Security to check its validity and the automated response indicated the email should be 
ignored.
After establishing that the Barclays employee was genuine, S asked Barclays why the 
money their client had sent had not been received. This was ten days after the deadline for 
crediting the money to Ss client account. S say Barclays didnt make them aware that the 
deadline had passed during the call. The next day Barclays told S the money had been 
returned to the client account. This was around three weeks after Ss client had made the 
transfer. 
S say it took a further week for the funds to be received by the client. When the client sent 
the funds again, Barclays incorrectly took a £6 fee from Ss client account. There was also a 
second occasion when the bank charge was incorrectly taken from the client account, rather 
than Ss business account. 
S raised complaints with Barclays, who said the correct payment process had been followed 
but acknowledged there were mistakes in the initial email and charges had been applied 
incorrectly. Barclays offered S £100 as an apology. But S didnt feel this was enough to put 
things right. So, they referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ss concerns, but she thought the £100 Barclays had offered 
them was reasonable and didnt recommend they do anything further. 
S disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, they were unhappy that Barclays 
request for further information wasnt correct and it also hadnt made them aware of the 
deadline they needed to respond by. They were also concerned that Barclays had delayed 
contacting them. They said there was a substantial delay in receiving the payments which 
was highly inconvenient for both S and their client as theyd agreed they would not start work 
until theyd received payment. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that the offer Barclays made S to settle the complaint is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure S that Ive considered all of their points, even if I havent responded to 
each of them individually. Ive concentrated on what I feel is most relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint.
S has referred to Barclays making serious breaches in its obligations to them and has also 
questioned its procedures. To be clear, our service doesnt have the power to tell a business 
to change its procedures. Nor is it our role to fine or punish a business.
 
What I need to consider is whether or not Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably, while 
following its policies and procedures. If it hasnt, I need to think about what is fair and 
reasonable to put things right for S.
Ive not been made aware of any financial impact from Barclays errors. So, what Im left with 
is to consider any distress or inconvenience S might have experienced as a result of 
Barclays actions.
Barclays has provided information that shows its business manager was asked to contact S 
for further information on 4 August 2020. I can see the business manager emailed S on 6 
August 2020 referring to a voicemail theyd left and asking a question about a payment 
reference. The Barclays business manager incorrectly refers to a transaction made from 
your business account and asks S to call to discuss it at your earliest connivance (sic).
I understand the email caused some confusion for S. They were also concerned it might not 
be genuine because of the spelling error and them not recognising the name of the business 
manager. S say the email was sent to their office managers home email address, rather 
than her business email address and this added to their suspicions that it might be 
fraudulent or a scam. I also note that the email didnt make reference to S needing to 
respond by 10 August 2020.
If Barclays had communicated with S more clearly, I think its likely that it would have 
received the information it needed from them in time for the transaction to go through. S say 
that after receiving the funds back, their client made a second payment just over a month 
after their initial payment and this was successfully received into Ss client account. So, I 
think Barclays is responsible for delaying the payment for around a few weeks. S say this 
was inconvenient for both them and their client as theyd agreed they would not start work 
until theyd received payment. While, Im unable to consider the impact on Ss client, I 
understand the delay would have been frustrating and inconvenient for S.
S has also raised concerns about bank charges that were taken from the client account in 
error on two occasions. They say they are subject to strict rules from the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority (SRA) regarding this. I appreciate this was frustrating for S, but theyve 
confirmed Barclays has corrected this. And I havent seen anything to suggest S was 
subjected to any sanctions from the SRA because of Barclays error. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for S, who have put a lot of time and effort into their 
complaint. But having considered all of their points, I think the £100 Barclays has already offered is fair compensation for the frustration and inconvenience they experienced as a 
result of Barclays errors.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay S £100 if they accept my decision.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman