DRN-3545731
The complaint
Mr F complains that MoneyGram International Limited trading as MoneyGram 
(MoneyGram) wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to a scam.  
What happened
Mr F says that he met someone on an online site who lived abroad. They exchanged 
messages and Mr F thought they formed a relationship. The lady asked Mr F to buy her 
expensive gifts and invited him to visit her. During this visit and just after seeing the lady Mr 
F met online, he was assaulted, and personal possessions were stolen from him including 
his laptop.
Around a year later Mr F received a message from someone who said he had found his 
belongings and could return them to him. This person claimed to have friends and a 
business in the country Mr F visited. Mr Fs items were due to be returned to him via a 
logistics company which sent him a message asking him to pay an insurance fee which 
would be returned on delivery. Following this payment request Mr F was asked to make 
other payments for a city permit stamp, a test for radioactivity, a delivery fee and customs. 
Mr F signed up for a MoneyGram Plus account and made the following payments as part of 
the scam.
Date Amount 
(inc. fees)Recipient Purpose
24/09/21 £644.43 1 Education
27/09/21 £625 2 Bills
27/09/21 £620 2 Food
27/09/21 £468 1 Bills
27/09/21 £466 1 Bills
28/09/21 £199.26 1 Bills
28/09/21 £462.08 3 Bills
28/09/21 £775.14 3 Bills
TOTAL £4,259.91
 
Mr F was asked to make further payments, but friends advised him he wasnt receiving 
anything for the payments he was making. He believes that MoneyGram owed him a duty of 
care when he made multiple transactions in a short period of time and should have asked 
him questions and stopped the payments. Mr F has provided detailed information about why 
he thinks MoneyGram owed him that duty. He has also referred to the fact that he has 
conditions that make him susceptible to scams of this nature and says MoneyGram should 
have provided additional protection to him as a result.  
MoneyGram explained to Mr F that the recipients of the payments provided the correct 
reference and identification, so it was required to release the funds Mr F sent. It also told Mr 
F that its service is aimed at sending funds to individuals its customers personally know and 
trust and that if Mr F chose to send the payments after seeing a fraud warning MoneyGram 
isnt liable for his loss.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
recognised Mr F was the victim of a cruel scam but noted that his relationship with 
MoneyGram was new and so it didnt have a longstanding payment history to compare the 
payments he made as part of the scam with. The investigator didnt believe there was 
anything unusual about the payments that should have led MoneyGram to believe Mr F 
might be at risk of being scammed. None of the payments were for particularly large 
amounts and transfers abroad arent unusual for a MoneyGram customer given the nature of 
the service it provides. The investigator also said that MoneyGram had no reason to know 
that Mr F might be more susceptible to scams. 
MoneyGram accepted the investigators findings, but Mr F did not. In summary, he said:
- He made eight transactions over a short period of time so MoneyGram should have 
stepped in, particularly given the fact he was served by the same individual at the 
counter when he made the payments. 
- The legal arguments hed made werent taken into account. Mr F also provided 
information about customer due diligence and enhanced due diligence.
- Mr F provided some medical records and a lot of information about the treatment of 
vulnerable customers. This included reference to the fact that staff should be 
appropriately trained to understand and take account of the needs of vulnerable 
customers. 
The complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Id like to reassure Mr F that Ive considered all the points he has raised, and evidence 
provided, even if I havent specifically referred to it. I understand that Mr F is very upset 
about losing this money and that he wasnt aware that he was being scammed. Whilst Im 
sorry to hear about what has happened, Ive come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and MoneyGrams own terms 
and conditions  suggest it has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. MoneyGram might be negligent and liable 
for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on 
information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised payment institution to 
potential fraud or financial crime by, or against, its customer.
But, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside MoneyGrams own terms and 
conditions, also indicate it should execute and authorise payment instructions without undue 
delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is 
on the payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam. Theres no dispute in this case that Mr F authorised the payments. So Ive taken the above 
obligations into account when deciding if MoneyGram acted fairly and reasonably when it 
followed his instructions. And having done so, I dont think MoneyGram reasonably ought to 
have recognised anything unusual in the payments Mr F is asking it to refund.
MoneyGrams payment service is typically used for individuals to send money abroad to 
people they know. Given the nature of the service customers dont often have a longstanding 
relationship with MoneyGram or a regular pattern of spending, as was the case for Mr F. It 
was the first time Mr F made a payment using MoneyGram, so there was no payment history 
to compare transactions to. This meant that MoneyGram had no way of determining what Mr 
Fs usual spending habit or transaction pattern looked like. 
Im also conscious of the fact MoneyGram is a payment service provider and not a bank or 
building society and MoneyGram accounts are used differently to standard accounts. There 
can be regular or frequent payments which are usually sent overseas and setting up a new 
recipient isnt unusual for this type of account. 
MoneyGram had no other reason to believe that Mr F was likely falling victim to a scam. It 
has confirmed that two of the recipients I have listed in the table above had a history of 
receiving funds through MoneyGram and no complaints have been raised by the senders. 
Given these points, and looking at the individual transactions, none of them stand out as so 
unusual that MoneyGram should have been alerted to a potential problem. Whilst I 
appreciate some were made in a relatively short timescale, I dont consider this fact alone 
meant MoneyGram didnt do enough. This could be normal activity for Mr F. In the 
circumstances, I consider the warnings provided to Mr F at the time he made each payment 
were sufficient. 
Ive been provided with a blank copy of the send form which provides a warning about 
sending funds to someone you dont know, but Ive not seen a completed copy so cant be 
certain Mr F saw this. But MoneyGram has records that show information was recorded in 
respect of each transaction and this information seems to me to relate to the questions on 
the send form. I have also seen signed pre-disclosure declarations in respect of six of the 
transactions. The declarations Mr F has signed say,
FRAUD WARNING
PLEASE READ THE QUESTIONS BELOW CAREFULLY TO HELP US TO PROTECT 
YOU FROM BECOMING A VICTIM OF FRAUD OR A SCAM.
Fraud Warning About Your Money Transfer 
Keep your money safe. If any of the below apply, DO NOT SEND the money transfer. It is a 
scam and someone is trying to steal your money
1. Never transfer money to a stranger. Know who you are dealing with. A money 
transfer is like cash.
So I dont agree with Mr F that MoneyGram didnt provide any warnings after the first 
payment. Ive seen Mr Fs signature on three declarations and believe its more likely than 
not he signed a declaration on each occasion. In this case, and for the reasons Ive set out, 
Im satisfied MoneyGram didnt need to take any additional steps. 
Even if I thought MoneyGram should have intervened further Id only be able to ask it to 
provide Mr F with a refund if I was satisfied that the intervention would have made a 
difference and Mr F wouldnt have made any further payments. In this case Mr F didnt tell 
MoneyGram the truth about the reason for each payment so Im not persuaded the scam 
would have been uncovered. But given my finding that MoneyGram didnt need to do 
anything more when it processed the payments, I dont need to consider this point further. 
Mr F has described himself as vulnerable and thinks that MoneyGram should have 
recognised this and prevented the payments from being made. But MoneyGram could only act on vulnerability that it was told about or was apparent when Mr F made the payments. 
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me MoneyGram should have recognised that Mr F 
was vulnerable. I appreciate that all but the first payment in the table above were made from 
the same branch of Post Office and Mr F was served by the same agent. During its 
investigation MoneyGram interviewed the sub-postmaster of the branch about the payments 
on 27 and 28 September 2021. The sub-postmaster confirmed that a conversation took 
place with Mr F on 28 September. Mr F appeared nervous and so the agent questioned him 
about his demeanour. Mr F advised that he was nervous because his sister was in hospital 
and the agent was satisfied with this response. The following day Mr F tried to make a 
further payment but was prevented from doing so as he had reached his limit. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F made his vulnerability clear at the time he made 
the payments and am satisfied that the agent who served Mr F took appropriate steps to 
question his demeanour. Mr F didnt give a truthful answer to the agent but what Mr F did 
say satisfied the agent they could continue with the transaction. So I cant reasonably 
conclude MoneyGram was at fault. 
Mr F has raised some points about due diligence. I assume Mr F is referring to the steps he 
believes should have been taken by MoneyGram in respect of the individuals who collected 
the funds he sent abroad. If so, this service is unable to consider a complaint from Mr F 
about this as he isnt an eligible complainant and the event he wants to complain about 
happened outside of our territorial scope. The payment service that MoneyGram provided to 
Mr F was to process the payment and make funds available for collection in the destination 
country. Mr F is able to complain about sending the funds but not about the collection of 
those funds.
I appreciate that Mr F is going to be very disappointed, but I cant fairly ask MoneyGram to 
refund him. Overall, I dont think MoneyGram ought reasonably to have recognised the 
payments were unusual or that Mr F was the victim of a scam. And, as the funds were 
collected prior to the scam being reported by Mr F, there was nothing further MoneyGram 
couldve done to try and recover the funds for him. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman