DRN-3552887
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice given by Direct Pension Services (DPS) Limited, which was 
an Appointed Representative of Whiting Group Limited (WGL), to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes it has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr F approached DPS in 2003 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I understand 
that Mr F responded to an advert that DPS had made. And WGL has said that there was a 
telephone call after this to discuss why Mr F wanted to transfer. 
DPS sent Mr F a fact find document which Mr F completed himself. This was to gather 
information about Mr Fs circumstances and objectives. Briefly this showed that his 
circumstances were:
He was aged 50 and married. He had three children, two of which were financially 
dependent.
He had an income of £15,000 from his self-employment. I understand he also had 
around £20,000 employed income.  
His main residence was worth £140,000, this had an outstanding mortgage of 
£119,000.
Mr F said that he had some debts, which included monies owed to HMRC, which he wanted 
to repay as a matter of urgency. He said he had considered alternative ways of repaying 
these, such as remortgaging and further borrowing, but he didnt want to do this. 
Mr F said his attitude to risk was balanced.
After Mr F had returned the fact find to DPS he spoke to it on the telephone two times. DPS 
notes show that he confirmed the information in the fact find and that he wanted to access 
his DB pension benefits. 
In June 2003, DPS provided a suitability report to Mr F. This said that his objective was to 
raise money to repay his debts. The letter initially set out several ways Mr F could do this 
without accessing his pension such as applying for a personal loan, continuing to repay his 
debts and increasing how much he paid to these to repay them earlier. 
The report said that Mr F should leave his DB scheme benefits intact. However, the letter 
went on to confirm Mr F had said he would ignore this advice and wanted to proceed to 
access tax free cash from his pension.
DPS records show that there was a further discussion after Mr F had received the letter. 
DPS says that it reiterated that Mr F shouldnt transfer his DB scheme benefits.  
In late June 2003 Mr F signed a letter confirming:
The report he had received was a fair representation of his objectives and the options 
available to him to achieve them.
That he was aware his objectives could be achieved without taking pension benefits.
That he would be reducing his pension in retirement by releasing cash from his 
pension.
As far as I am aware this letter was drafted by DPS rather than Mr F. 
Mr F then proceeded with the transfer. He transferred around £123,000 into a third-party 
personal pension. I understand Mr F took the maximum amount of tax-free cash that he was 
able to. 
Mr F complained in 2020 to WGL about the suitability of the transfer advice. His 
representative said that he was not properly informed about the guarantees he gave up. The 
DB transfer wasnt suitable for him and Mr F wasnt an insistent client. 
WGL didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said that Mr F approached it to transfer his pension 
benefits. This was because:  
He had a pressing need for cash, in particular to repay a tax bill. So, he would have 
transferred in any event. 
A full analysis of his situation was made which included his attitude to risk. 
He was provided with comprehensive information about the transfer, including what 
he was giving up, and he still proceeded. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that, due to Mr Fs circumstances, he would likely have made the transfer in any event. 
And the information from DPS was clear when it said that the transfer was not in his best 
interests. It also told him what his other options were. 
Mr Fs representative disagreed, saying the point of sale information wasnt clear that Mr F 
had an urgent need for tax free cash. This was because the initial inquiry said he wanted 
advice on whether or not he should access his pension fund. So, it wasnt clear if he really 
did have a need for this money. Also, it said that the advice process was rushed and it was 
not clear to Mr F that he was acting against the advice of DPS.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WGL said that the Financial Ombudsman Service shouldnt consider this complaint. This is 
because the complaint was brought too late. I can see that an ombudsman has considered 
the objections that WGL made to the Financial Ombudsman Service considering this 
complaint. The ombudsman decided that this complaint is within the Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction and wasnt brought too late. As this issue has already been decided, Ive gone on 
to consider the merits of the complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive outlined the regulators, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (now the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)) rules from the time of sale. The regulator expected a 
prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to make an informed 
investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved and a knowledge of 
what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up. 
At least one illustration for the personal pension had to be on a similar basis to the DB 
scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
A reason why letter or equivalent had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation. It should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme. and
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information a business should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability, in a similar way to the previous regulators 
guidance.
Importantly it also said for the first time that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook.
The information for the point of sale says that the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr F. So, I dont 
need to look at this in detail. Ive outlined the main reasons why it wasnt in Mr Fs best 
interests to transfer below. 
Financial viability 
I cant see that DPS calculated a critical yield, or similar, when it looked into Mr Fs pension 
transfer. This would have given Mr F an indication of the investment returns the PPP would 
need to make to replicate the DB scheme benefits. 
But the suitability letter did say that Mr F shouldnt take early release of his pension fund. 
This is because he would be giving up a guaranteed and increasing pension of £5,634 per 
year, and he wouldnt be able to replace this if he used the fund as he intended. It said that 
Mr Fs long-term pension planning should be left intact. For this reason alone the transfer out 
of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Fs best interests. Financial viability isnt the only consideration when deciding whether to transfer; there might 
be other aspects which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive thought about the documented reasons as to why Mr F wanted to transfer below.
Flexibility
It was documented that Mr and Mrs F had some debts. These took the form of some money 
to HRMC that he needed to pay, plus some personal loans and credit cards. He may have 
wanted to perform some maintenance on his home. Its not documented that these debts 
were causing financial difficulty and the fact find showed that Mr and Mrs F had some 
surplus income. But the main reason why Mr F wanted to transfer was to repay the tax 
amount he owed and reduce his monthly outgoings.  
DPS didnt think that Mr F should proceed with the transfer because these debts were being 
managed at the time. It thought that Mr F should consider other means to repay them first. It 
outlined in the suitability letter the options it thought Mr F had in this respect. It went into 
some detail about these options including other debt consolidation loans and how to best 
use their surplus income. 
I think its clear, as DPS said, that it probably wasnt in Mr Fs best interest to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits and take early release of his DB scheme fund. I agree that this was likely 
to be the case. And that DPS informed Mr F of this. 
Was Mr F an insistent client. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business (COBS) rules in the regulators 
Handbook which required DPS to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required DPS to provide information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading. So, DPSs recommendation had to be clear and Mr F had 
to have understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
Ive outlined the material aspects of how the transfer came about above so I wont repeat 
them here. I consider there were possibly some areas where more clarity would have been 
helpful in DPS process and how it treated Mr F as an insistent client, that is, one who 
wanted to act contrary to the advice given. But I agree that, even if DPS had done everything 
it shouldve done, Mr F would still have gone ahead with the transfer of his pension to the 
PPP. Ill explain why. 
It was Mr F who contacted DPS with a view to releasing money from his pension. Following 
this contact Mr F and DPS spoke on the telephone a number of times. DPS notes to these 
calls show that it informed Mr F each time that a transfer was unlikely to be in his best 
interests and he should look at dealing with his debts in other ways. 
DPS sent Mr F written advice in September 2000. It said that: 
in order to achieve your objectives, we recommend that you do not take early release of the 
pensions we have investigated. We believe that you should achieve your financial objectives 
by the following method:
Apply for a personal loan for the cash sum you require now. 
Continue making repayments of your current loans with increased monthly 
repayments as you have sufficient income to cover the additional repayments to 
allow for quicker debt reduction.Leave your pension to provide pension benefits at Retirement Age.
There was a full explanation of why this was and what the implications of making the transfer 
were in the suitability letter and the attached Technical Report. The letter then went on to 
note that this had already been explained to Mr F but he had indicated that he wanted to 
proceed in any event. It then went on to say what Mr Fs options were if he did want to make 
the DB transfer. 
I think it would have been better if the first written communication about the advice didnt 
inform Mr F that he could make the transfer in any event. But I think this was balanced out 
by the information that DPS had gathered in the telephone calls and fact find. And it had 
gone into some detail as to what Mr Fs alternatives where. I think, overall, it was clear that 
DPSs advice was that the DB transfer wasnt in Mr Fs best interests, and why this was. I 
dont think it needed to outline any further alternatives, such as an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA), as Mr Fs representative now says. 
After this DPS spoke to Mr F again. It said that Mr F needed to confirm that he wanted to 
proceed by signing the declaration I talked about above. Mr F did this. 
Mr F had clearly thought about the benefits to him of transferring at that point. And in the 
correspondence he confirmed that his debts were becoming a problem to him and he 
wanted to repay them. It was noted that he had recently remortgaged but he had no savings 
or other means to obtain the funds he needed. DPS did say that Mr F should consider 
restructuring his finances with the help of a debt management organisation or using some of 
his surplus income to repay his debts, but Mr F didnt want to do this.
So, I think its reasonable to say that Mr F had made up his mind and he wanted to enact the 
transfer, despite DPSs advice being not to do this.
I havent seen any persuasive evidence from the time of sale that this process pressured 
Mr F. There was plenty of time between each contact and the advice took place over a 
month or so. Mr F needed to respond before things would move on a number of times and 
so he did have some control over the timeframes. 
And I think its reasonable to say the advice was fully explained to Mr F both in the letters he 
received and in the telephone calls. I dont think I can reasonably say that DPS should have 
provided more, or better, information about the implications of the transfer. 
Overall, even though I think DPSs insistent client process could have been fairer, I dont 
think that would have changed the outcome in Mr Fs particular case. I say that because on 
balance, I think even if DPS had made their insistent client process clearer, Mr F would have 
pursued the transfer and insisted on DPS transferring his pension.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman