DRN-3407574
The complaint
Mr G complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly settled his claim on 
his home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mr Gs home was broken in to in October 2021 and items were stolen. Included in the items 
stolen were a watch and his wedding ring.
Mr G made a claim on his home insurance policy that he held with Admiral.
Admirals specialist jewellers reviewed his claim. It conducted a valuation of the stolen items 
and Admiral made a settlement offer. 
Mr G accepted a cash settlement for the watch. An offer was made for the wedding ring 
which was either a cash settlement or a voucher settlement for more than the specified 
amount. 
Mr G rejected the offer of vouchers for the ring as he said this limited him and prevented him 
from buying what he wanted. He rejected the lower cash settlement as it was less than the 
value specified in his policy.
Admiral said the cash settlement amount it offered was correct as this is the amount it could 
purchase the ring for with discounts available to it. As Mr G was not happy with the voucher 
offer, Admiral added an offer of a gem card. This can be used at more retailers in the UK 
that the previous voucher offered. This voucher included access to a personal jewellery 
service.
Mr G wants a voucher without limitations as to where it can be redeemed, or a cash 
settlement of the amount insured. 
As Mr G was not happy with Admiral, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Admiral had acted within the 
terms and conditions of the policy and had provided fair options for Mr G to choose from.
As Mr G is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at Mr Gs home insurance policy and I saw the stolen ring is listed as a specified 
item in his policy. The ring has been given a value in the policy schedule.
Admiral accepted Mr Gs claim for this item and made the following settlement offers
1. Initial voucher offer  An amount above value of the ring as is listed in specified items 
within the policy schedule. This amount was calculated after a valuation by Admiral. 
These vouchers have limitations on specific retailers.
2. Cash offer  A lower amount based on the amount Admirals supplier confirmed the ring 
could be bought for with its discount.
3. Second voucher offer  To the value of the ring as is listed in specified items within the 
policy schedule. This voucher has more choice of retailer and access to its personal 
jewellery service that offers bespoke items.
Mr G said he wants to go back to the jeweller who made the stolen ring to obtain a 
replacement. However, this jeweller is not included in either of the voucher schemes offered.
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. In the Claims section it says; 
Section 2 (Contents), Section 3 (Cover away from your home) and Section 4 (Pedal
cycles)
We will decide to either:
repair the Item
restore the Item (for example, use professional cleaners for carpets)
pay the cost of repairing the Item
replace the Item as new, or
pay in cash or vouchers up to the amount we could repair, restore or replace the Item 
for.
I am satisfied that Admirals settlement offer has met the obligations of the policy as detailed 
in the terms and conditions. I think Admiral have given Mr G a fair choice of settlement 
options including access to a bespoke jewellery service.
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint and do not require Admiral to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman