DRN-3754002
The complaint
Mrs S complains about a loan provided to her by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which she says was unaffordable. 
What happened
The loan was for £2,000 and was taken out in August 2018. It was to be repaid by              
30 monthly repayments of £199.59. The loan was to be used for debt consolidation and 
home improvements. ELL paid £364.93 directly to a creditor from the loan proceeds and  
Mrs S received £1,635.07. The loan is still outstanding. 
Mrs S said that she applied for the loan due to spiralling debts including a high interest loan 
and several payday loans whilst trying to manage essential bills such as rent, council tax and 
water which had already begun to fall into arrears. Mrs S believed that ELL took her tax 
credit payments into account as part of her income, but she said that money was used to 
pay for activities for her children to enable her to work full time. Mrs S said that ELL was 
aware that a family member was providing money to her to make ends meet on her current 
outgoings. She felt that ELL lent to her in the full knowledge that she was already highly 
dependent on high interest loans to manage month to month. She had four credit cards and 
several payday loans.
ELL said in its final response letter that the checks it completed were reasonable and 
proportionate and that the loan was sustainable over the term of the loan as Mrs S had 
disposable income. It said that after consolidation of Mrs Ss debts and its monthly 
repayment, Mrs S would have a monthly disposable income of around £413. 
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs S disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that her credit file had defaults and 
showed a high dependency on high interest loans. She had needed a guarantor for an 
existing loan that was still active, and she had missed payments on that loan. In addition, the 
majority of her tax credit income was used for childcare and wasnt available income. Her 
weekly childcare costs were in excess of £218. Mrs S said that ELL had also seen her bank 
statements which showed that she was borrowing thousands of pounds from a family 
member. She was reliant on money from that family member to make ends meet. Mrs S also 
said that the credit report obtained by ELL would have indicated that she had a current 
overdue balance on a utility account and also that she was in arrears with a communications 
provider. This would have indicated that she was struggling before the inception of ELLs 
loan to maintain her payments as they fell due on existing financial commitments. She was 
also in arrears with short term loan repayments. She had three dependents and her partner 
was unemployed.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs S
and to ELL on 28 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
I said that ELL would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I wouldnt go into detail on those points. But Id said that 
ELL needed to check that Mrs S could afford to meet her repayments without difficulty before 
agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could make her repayments 
out of her usual income without having to borrow to meet them, while meeting her existing 
obligations and without the payments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation. The assessment needed to take into account the nature of the credit and Mrs Ss 
circumstances. 
With this in mind, my main consideration was whether ELL had treated Mrs S fairly when it 
agreed to lend to her. Id thought about whether ELL completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing her application to satisfy itself that she would be able 
to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the 
information it knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known. 
ELL had gathered some information from Mrs S about her income and accommodation 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check and saw a payslip 
and bank statements for Mrs Ss main current account for a period of one month and another 
current account for 13 days. It had estimated Mrs Ss living costs by using data from the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS). 
Mrs S was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two and a half years. So, I thought it was right that the 
lender wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ss 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I thought that the checks Id 
described above allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mrs Ss finances. I thought that the 
checks ELL did were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needed to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it had made a fair lending decision.
Mrs S told ELL she was a tenant and paid £395 rent. Her average net monthly income was 
£2,252.66. She wanted to pay off her payday loans and a credit card account with the loan. 
The lender used the results of its credit checks and ONS data to calculate Mrs Ss living 
costs and financial commitments to be £2,004.67 prior to the debt consolidation. It said that 
her monthly disposable income after its loan repayment and debt consolidation would be 
£413.33. 
Id noted that ELLs documents had showed Mrs Ss net monthly income as £1,435.09. ELL 
had seen Mrs Ss payslip for August 2018, but this showed a net monthly income of 
£1,271.90. Its not clear why ELL used the larger amount and not the amount shown in the 
payslip. It would have also seen from the bank statements it received that Mrs S had 
received an income of £1,271.90 in August 2018. Id seen from the bank statements Mrs S 
provided to this Service that she received the same amount in July 2018. So, I thought ELL 
used too high a net monthly income in its calculations. ELL was also aware that Mrs S 
received benefit income. It said that Mrs Ss total monthly income was £2,252.66. Id calculated the monthly equivalent of the benefits Id seen in the bank statements to be 
around £817. So, Id calculated Mrs Ss total monthly income to be around £2,090.
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks. I could see that Mrs S had taken out two loans in the 
previous year with a current total balance of £8,050. Shed also taken out three credit cards 
and a mail order account in the same year. One of the credit cards was near its credit limit, 
one credit card was over its credit limit and a mail order account appeared to have been in 
arrears for five months. Mrs S had a current account on which the overdraft was £3 short of 
its limit. There was also a communications account which had been in arrears for three 
months until the month prior to the application. In addition, Mrs S had taken out a total of four 
short term loans totalling £680 in May 2018 and June 2018. Shed told ELL that these were 
due to her children being off school and extra costs. I thought the results of ELLs credit 
checks ought to have caused it some concerns as they suggested that Mrs S was struggling 
to manage her money as shown especially by her recent use of payday loans, an overlimit 
account and recent arrears. I thought ELL ought to have dug a bit deeper to obtain more 
information about Mrs Ss debt.
Whilst Mrs S had told ELL that she would be using part of the loan proceeds shed received 
to consolidate a credit card debt, I couldnt see from the information received from ELL that it 
had made this a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the debt would be paid off. 
Id also reviewed the bank statements ELL saw for Mrs Ss main current account for the 
period 20 July 2018 to 22 August 2018 and for a second current account for the period                   
26 July 2018 to 7 August 2018. ELL said that it had noted that Mrs Ss tax credits had moved 
from being paid into the latter account into the main account.
Whilst ELL had appeared to have gone through the statements and made a tick mark 
against most of the transactions on the statements, it didnt seem that ELL had used the 
bank statements it had received to verify Mrs Ss living costs which it had estimated using 
ONS data as explained above. I didnt think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on statistical 
information about Mrs Ss living costs without verifying it. ONS data was based on the 
finances and expenditure of the average consumer. But I didnt think it was reasonable for 
ELL to have thought that Mrs Ss circumstances fell within this average portfolio. ELLs 
affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mrs S and I thought it should have been in her 
circumstances. I didnt think ELL had properly scrutinised the information it did see to verify 
Mrs Ss actual expenditure and ensure that Mrs S would have enough money to be able to 
make the payments over the 30 months loan term.
ELL did seem to have noted from its review of the statement for the second current account 
that Mrs S was receiving a large amount of transfers from a third party. Its notes said 
multiple small transfers seen to and from a secondary account but only ten days statement 
obtained. I could see that Mrs S had received £1,108 from 26 July 2018 to 7 August 2018 
from a third party. I thought ELL ought to have asked Mrs S for more information about this 
money. Mrs S said it was from a family member and I could see that it was usually 
transferred from the second current account to Mrs Ss main account. As Id said above,  
Mrs S told this Service that she was reliant on this money to make ends meet. And I thought 
ELL ought to have seen that from its review of Mrs Ss bank statements. There was also no 
guarantee that she would continue to receive this money throughout the loan period.
ELL also would have seen from the statements for the second current account that there 
were living costs paid from this account. I thought ELL should have asked to see statements 
for that account for a months period to enable it to have a complete view of Mrs Ss financial 
situation. I have seen Mrs Ss account statements for July 2018 and August 2018 for that 
account and noted that payments were made from that account for rent, communications, a 
credit card and food/drink. Having reviewed statements for both current accounts from around the time of the loan 
application, I could see that Mrs Ss total living costs and credit commitments were higher 
than the amount ELL had calculated. I thought they were also likely to be greater than her 
monthly income (including her benefit income) after taking into account ELLs loan 
repayment and the consolidation of the payday loans that ELL knew about. 
Overall, from the information Id seen I thought ELL ought to have been concerned about 
Mrs Ss ability to repay its loan out of her usual means, without borrowing and without 
receiving money from a family member, as she wasnt managing to do so with her existing 
debt. ELL needed to consider the impact of the loan repayments over 30 months on Mrs S 
and establish whether she could make her loan repayments sustainably without 
experiencing adverse consequences. Taking everything in the round, I thought ELL should 
have reasonably suspected that Mrs S was having problems managing her money and I 
thought that ELL made an unfair lending decision here when it agreed to lend to Mrs S.
So for the reasons given above, but subject to any further information or evidence I might 
receive from the parties, I intended to say that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld and that 
ELL should put things right as Ive set out below under the heading Putting things right  
what ELL needs to do.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mrs S back into the 
position she would have been had the loan not been agreed for her, ELL needs to ensure 
that Mrs S only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mrs S shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount of £2,000 she borrowed. So, ELL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mrs S has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) if Mrs S has made payments above the capital amount of £2,000, then these should be 
refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if Mrs S hasnt made payments above the capital amount of £2,000 and there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then ELL needs to treat Mrs S fairly and sympathetically in this 
matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with her; and
d) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mrs Ss credit file.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to d) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give     
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Mrs S responded to my provisional decision by providing further information about her 
financial situation around the time of the loan.
ELL responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that ELL has agreed with my provisional decision, and the additional information 
provided by Mrs S supports my provisional conclusions that she was having problems 
managing her money, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require ELL to take the steps 
set out above under the heading Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman