DRN-4171152
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the offer J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Fashion World 
made to resolve her complaint about an unaffordable catalogue shopping account.
What happened
Miss S has a catalogue shopping account with Fashion World. In January 2023, she 
complained that the account had been unaffordable for her from the outset and 
Fashion World should never have agreed to lend. She explained that struggling to manage 
the repayments had caused her considerable stress and anxiety, as did calls and letters 
from Fashion World chasing the debt.
In its final response letter, Fashion World said that as Miss S had a default recorded on her 
credit file shortly prior to her application, it accepted it should not have offered her the 
catalogue shopping account. To put things right, it recalculated the account to refund all 
interest and administration charges  a total of £840.88. This brought the balance to 
£1,219.66. It also removed any late payment markers reported to Miss Ss credit file.
One of our Investigators considered Fashion Worlds offer and thought it was in line with 
what our service would have recommended it do to put things right, so he thought the offer 
was fair.
Miss S disagreed  she thought the whole balance should be forgiven. She said she never 
would have bought the items she did had Fashion World not lent, and that she was 
experiencing mental health issues.
As Miss S disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the case comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear about the mental health issues Miss S has been 
experiencing, and the difficult time shes had.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ss complaint. 
I havent considered in detail whether Fashion World should have lent to Miss S here. Its 
already accepted that it shouldnt have done so  and there is nothing that clearly indicates it 
has made an error in reaching that conclusion. So, to resolve things informally Ive focused 
on what I consider central to the dispute, which is whether Fashion World has acted fairly in 
putting things right.
Fashion World has refunded the interest and charges applied, and amended Miss Ss credit 
file to remove any late payment markers. It has also offered to discuss the remaining 
balance with Miss S to help her manage her account moving forwards. This is what Id 
expect it to do in line with our approach to unaffordable lending.
To resolve things, Miss S wants the remaining balance to be forgiven. I appreciate that 
Miss S says that had Fashion World not offered her the facility she wouldnt have purchased 
goods, but the fact remains she has had the benefit of those goods. So I cant reasonably 
ask Fashion World to forgive the remaining balance of the account.
Im sorry to hear Miss S experienced stress and worry due to Fashion World contacting her 
to pursue the debt. That said, I would expect a lender to attempt to contact the borrower 
where an account is in arrears, and theres no agreed payment plan in place. Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Fashion Worlds actions in pursuing the debt were unreasonable.
I encourage Miss S to speak with Fashion World about her current circumstances to agree 
an affordable repayment plan for the remaining balance. She may also wish to get debt 
advice from an independent organisation, such as StepChange or National Debtline.
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Fashion World has taken reasonable steps to resolve 
the complaint and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Frances Young
Ombudsman