DRN-2024043
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs S complain about the way their personal data has been processed and 
handled by Pepper (UK) Ltd (trading as Engage Credit) in relation to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 2007. In March 2015, the mortgage was transferred 
to Pepper. In 2016, Mr L and Mrs Ss home was repossessed and sold, with a shortfall 
amount outstanding.
 
In 2019, Mrs S complained to Pepper about the way theyd handled and processed her and 
Mr Ls information. Mrs S said she did not recall obtaining a loan from Pepper or Engage 
Credit, nor had they secured a loan against their property in Peppers favour. She said shed 
found that Engage Credit was not incorporated until March 2008, and changed its name to 
Pepper in 2014. So as a result, neither Pepper nor Engage were in a position to offer them a 
loan in 2007 when their mortgage was taken out.
Pepper sent their final response in October 2019. They said the mortgage was originally 
taken out with a different lender in 2007, and the mortgage was transferred to Pepper in 
March 2015. They said when the transfer happened, they sent Mr L and Mrs S a letter 
notifying them of the change, and explaining that the mortgage conditions would remain the 
same. Pepper explained they (and Engage Credit) were registered before the mortgage was 
transferred to their ownership, and they were unable to locate any discrepancies in regards 
to how the mortgage had been reported to credit reference agencies. So they didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr L and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. They said theyd never given Pepper 
or Engage any money, and arent convinced there is a legal basis for the action theyve 
taken in relation to their mortgage. They want Pepper to put them back in their home, pay 
compensation for the severe distress caused, and remove any records of Engage from their 
credit files.
 
Our investigator looked into things, and explained that he was satisfied the conditions of 
Mr L and Mrs Ss mortgage allowed for the transfer from the previous lender to Engage. He 
said whilst Pepper and Engage may not have existed when Mr L and Mrs S took the 
mortgage out, they did exist when the mortgage was transferred to them. As a result of his 
findings, the investigator said it was reasonable for Engage to contact Mr L and Mrs S about 
the shortfall outstanding on their mortgage account. He didnt think information had been 
reported incorrectly on their credit files.
Mr L and Mrs S disagreed. They provided more information about what had happened in 
Court over the years and asked our service to take that into account. They still didnt think 
Engage had a legal basis for taking the action they did which led to the repossession of their 
home, as they had never agreed to a contract with Engage.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaints been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to acknowledge the amount of information Mrs S has kindly provided to our 
service about the complaint and history of events. Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr L 
and Mrs S have suffered as a result of the repossession of their home, and the impact this 
had on their family. I want to assure Mr L and Mrs S that whilst I wont be referring 
specifically to everything theyve told us, Ive taken everything theyve said into account 
when reaching my decision. But having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
Mr L and Mrs S question whether Pepper trading as Engage Credit have any lawful basis to 
handle their information, and report data to the credit reference agencies. As the investigator 
explained, in March 2015 this mortgage was transferred to Pepper. Having looked at the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage, this was something that was provided for under the 
terms Mr L and Mrs S agreed to. Its also not uncommon in this part of the mortgage 
industry.
 
Having looked at all the information provided, Im satisfied Pepper held the legal charge over 
Mr L and Mrs Ss property following the transfer in 2015. As a result, Im also satisfied 
Pepper were entitled to hold and process Mr L and Mrs Ss personal data. This includes 
reporting information to the credit reference agencies.
Several matters in relation to Mr L and Mrs Ss mortgage have been referred, and decided in 
Court. So it would not be appropriate for me to comment on or make findings on something 
that has already been before the Courts, or decided by a judge. I can see Mr L and Mrs S 
have challenged the grounds on which Pepper took possession of their property in their 
submissions to the Court. So I wont comment on that any further.
I appreciate Mr L and Mrs S didnt take their mortgage out with Pepper, but it was transferred 
to them in 2015. As a result, all rights held by the original lender in relation to the legal 
charge over Mr L and Mrs Ss property, were transferred to Pepper at that point. I dont think 
its relevant here that Pepper were not a registered company when the mortgage was taken 
out in 2007. The company existed in 2015 when the transfer took place, and I think thats the 
relevant time period here.
I note Pepper have instructed solicitors to collect the shortfall amount owed to them as a 
result of the sale of the mortgaged property. I would encourage Mr L and Mrs S to engage 
with that process so an agreement can be made about how that balance will be repaid.
But whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr L and Mrs S, I dont think 
Pepper need to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman