DRN-2573486
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited approved him for a credit card and recorded it 
against his credit file without him electing to go ahead with the card.
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with Vanquis at an indicative rate of 39.9% APR. Mr A wasnt 
happy when he discovered that Vanquis had approved his application and given him a credit 
card with an interest rate of 59.9% APR without first checking with Mr A that he wanted to 
accept the card in consideration of the higher interest rate. So, Mr A made a complaint.
Vanquis looked at Mr As complaint. They noted that the interest rate that Mr A had applied 
for matched the interest rate that they had provided him with. They also noted that Mr A had 
accepted the terms and conditions of the account before proceeding with the application, 
and that they had kept to those terms. So, they didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, our investigator 
concluded that Vanquis hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr A in how theyd 
processed his application, or in how theyd reported the status of the credit cad to the credit 
reference agencies. So, they didnt uphold Mr As complaint either.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so his complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the 
same reasons. 
I note that Mr A has raised several detailed points with our investigator. I hope that Mr A 
doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont go into the same level of detail here - to do so 
would, in many instances, be a repetition of matters already addressed by our investigator 
with which Im in agreement. Instead, I will focus on what I consider to be the key aspects of 
this complaint. However, I can confirm that if I do not mention a specific point it isnt the case 
that I havent considered it, but rather that I dont feel that I have anything to add beyond that 
already explained by our investigator and also that I dont feel addressing that point would 
have a material impact on the outcome that I have reached.
Vanquis have said that the application submitted by Mr A was for a credit card at with an 
interest rate of 59.9% APR. I understand that Mr A disputes this and that he believes that he 
was applying for a credit card with a lower rate of interest. I have no reason to doubt Mr As 
belief in this regard. However, as our investigator noted, credit card applicants dont always 
receive the indicative rate advertised on the credit card and a business has no way of 
making an offer to an applicant without processing a full application.
If an applicant is unhappy with the interest rate offered, they have a 14-day cooling off period 
in which they choose to not go ahead with the credit card application. This requires a formal 
notification from the applicant to the credit provider that they dont want to accept the card. 
Importantly, this has to be an active notification on the applicants part, and the absence of 
communication or response from an applicant isnt sufficient to provide such notice. In short, 
the applicant needs to actively tell the credit provider within 14 days that they dont want the 
credit card.
Mr A has stated that he responded to an email sent by Vanquis which was within this 14-day 
period instructing them to cancel the card. However, the email sent by Vanquis explained 
that customers shouldnt respond directly to that email because responses went to an 
unmonitored inbox and so wouldnt be seen. Because of this, while I acknowledge Mr As 
intention here, I cant conclude that Mr A provided Vanquis with valid notice that he didnt 
want to go ahead with the card in this instance.
Additionally, because Mr A didnt confirm his request to not accept the credit card via any 
other channel, this meant that Vanquis didnt receive notice from Mr A that he didnt want to 
go ahead with the card. Because of this, Im satisfied that it was appropriate of Vanquis to 
conclude that Mr A hadnt used the 14-day cooling off period and that he wanted to go ahead 
with the credit card.
Its unfortunate that Mr A didnt contact Vanquis via an appropriate channel to confirm that 
he didnt want to go ahead with the credit card, and I dont doubt that it was his intention to 
not do so. However, I cant fairly censure Vanquis on this point because ultimately, they 
werent actively informed by Mr A that he didnt want to go ahead with the card.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A wanted, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Vanquis to take any further action. This is because, on 
the basis of all the information I have available to me, it was fair and reasonable for Vanquis 
to consider that Mr A wanted to go ahead with the credit card, and to therefore report the 
details of the credit card to the credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman