DRN-4073334
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D have complained about how HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) dealt with a 
claim under a landlords insurance policy.
As Mr D dealt with the claim, Ill only refer to him.
What happened
Mr Ds tenant contacted HDI to make a home emergency claim when water damage was 
found to the kitchen ceiling. The tenant had problems registering the claim, as they werent 
named on the policy. After some delay, Mr D registered the claim. An engineer tried to visit 
but no-one was at the property. A new appointment was arranged and an engineer visited. 
The engineer had to visit again to fit a part.
Mr D complained to HDI because he said the delays resulted in the kitchen ceiling collapsing 
and him having to make a buildings insurance claim. When HDI replied, it said there had 
been issues setting up the claim. When it arranged for an engineer to visit, it had provided 
updates on the arrival time, including when the engineer was delayed. However, when the 
engineer arrived, no-one was at the property. A new engineer identified the issue and that a 
part needed to be fitted, but was asked not to isolate the leak while the engineer obtained 
the part, as young children were living at the property. It offered a total of £75 compensation 
for the issues with the engineer visiting and the number of phone calls required to progress 
the claim.
When Mr D complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said he hadnt 
seen evidence of poor service or avoidable delays. He said the damaged ceiling was more 
suited to being dealt with by the buildings insurer.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ds tenant tried to make a claim, but wasnt able to access the 
policy. HDI has accepted this was incorrect. Mr D then contacted HDI and was able to set up 
the claim. Ive checked the information provided when the claim was set-up. The emergency 
was described as there is a leak coming through the ceiling from the bathroom above. So, I 
think there was already likely to be damage to the ceiling at the time the claim was raised.
HDI arranged for an engineer to visit the day after the claim was raised. The appointment 
was originally scheduled between 2-6pm. Ive seen evidence of a text sent to the tenant at 
5.31pm that day that extended the arrival time by one hour, which would take the arrival time 
to 7pm. The engineer arrived at 7.06pm and there was no-one at the property. Its my 
understanding that the tenant had left to go to work. I can understand that the tenant might 
not have wanted to keep waiting for the engineer, but HDI kept the tenant up to date. I dont 
consider the engineer arriving six minutes after the scheduled time enough to make it 
responsible for the appointment not taking place. Im also mindful that, from what Ive seen, it 
was only the following day that the tenant spoke to HDI to find out what had happened with 
the engineer.
It is my understanding Mr D contacted HDI the following day to say the ceiling had collapsed. 
As the engineer tried to visit the previous day, I dont think I can fairly say it was responsible 
for the collapse. Im aware it then took two further visits from an engineer to carry out a 
repair and that Mr D has said HDI was therefore responsible for the further damage. So, Ive 
thought about this. Given the ceiling had already collapsed by this point, I think Mr D was 
always likely to need to make a buildings insurance claim. Based on the information 
available to me, I cant say for certain whether the damage got worse over the next couple of 
days. However, regardless of this, by this point it was something for the buildings insurer to 
assess, if Mr D wanted to make a claim. If it assessed some responsibility lay with the home 
emergency provider, it would be for the buildings insurer to decide if they wanted to take 
action to follow up on this. 
HDI paid Mr D £75 compensation for the issues with the claim. I think that was reasonable in 
the circumstances. Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require HDI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman