DRN-3361270
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, increased the amount
of credit that was available to her on her credit account on several occasions, all of which
she feels were unaffordable for her at those times.
What happened
Mrs C has a credit account with Barclays. In April 2015, she applied for an increase of the
credit limit on her account. Barclays accepted her application and the credit limit on her
account was increase from £3,200 to £4,000. Similar credit limit increases followed in July
2015 and December 2016, to £5,000 and then £9,000 respectively.
In October 2020, Mrs C raised a complaint with Barclays as she felt that credit limit 
increases that Barclays had approved her for hadnt been affordable for her at those times.
Barclays looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They noted that before approving Mrs Cs applications
for further credit theyd undertaken checks into Mrs Cs financial position at those times.
Barclays felt that thered been nothing resulting from these checks that should have given
them cause to suspect that Mrs C might not be able to afford the further credit she was
applying for, and so they didnt uphold this aspect of Mrs Cs complaint.
However, Barclays did acknowledge that the service that Mrs C received when interacting 
with them, which included that Barclays wrote to Mrs C referencing mental illness when Mrs 
C doesnt have or suffer from any such condition. And Barclays apologised to Mrs C for this. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information that Barclays
had available to them at the time of the further credit applications should have given them
reasonable cause to suspect that the further credit might not be affordable or sustainable for
Mrs C, such that it shouldnt have been offered to her. So, our investigator recommended
that this complaint be upheld in Mrs Cs favour on that basis. Our investigator also
recommended that Barclays should pay further compensation of £75 to Mrs C because of
the service issues that Mrs C had experienced.
Barclays didnt agree with the recommendations put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being 
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
In this instance, before approving the credit limit increases on Mrs Cs account, 
Barclays reviewed how Mrs C had managed and maintained the account in the 
months leading up to the increase, and also obtained information from a credit 
reference agency to get a better understanding of Mrs Cs wider financial position at 
that time. And Barclays maintain that there was nothing resulting from these checks 
that should have given them cause to suspect that Mrs C might not be able to afford 
the further credit that she was applying for.
Considering the credit limit increase from £3,200 to £4,000 that took place in April 
2015, its notable from the credit account statements that in the months leading up to 
the increase, Mrs C was maintaining the balance of her account close to, but under, 
the credit limit of £3,200. Its also notable that Mrs C had a direct debit set up to 
ensure that monthly payments were received by Barclays such that the credit limit on 
the account wasnt exceeded.
I dont feel that this management of the account by Mrs C should have been taken by
Barclays as being an indicator of potential financial difficulty. And I say this because 
its at the discretion of the account holder as to how they want to use and manage a 
credit account, and the maintenance of an account close to but not exceeding the 
agreed credit limit, so as to not incur unnecessary charges on the account, can be a 
legitimate account maintenance choice that an account holder can elect to make.
And while it was the case that the balance of the account did exceed the credit limit 
on one occasion, its evident that this was as a result of the direct debit failing for that 
month, so that the planned monthly payment wasnt credited to the account on time. 
However, while it may have been the case that the direct debit failed because of 
absence of available funds, which may suggest potential cashflow and affordability 
issues for Mrs C at that time, its notable that Mrs C was able to make a payment to 
cover the failed direct debit on short notice following the direct debit payment not 
being honoured.
As such, and in light of the responsible management of the account that Mrs C had
displayed up to that time as well as in the following months leading to the credit limit
increase, I dont feel that this particular instance of Mrs C exceeding the credit limit 
on her account should have been taken by Barclays as being necessarily indicative 
that Mrs C might not be able to afford the credit limit increase that she applied for 
such that it shouldnt have been offered to her.
Its also notable that Barclays obtained information from a credit reference agency 
following Mrs Cs application for further credit, and this information appeared to 
confirm that Mrs C did have monthly income at that time so that she would be able to 
meet the potentially higher monthly repayments that an increase in the credit limit on 
her account might entail. This type of affordability assessment is what was expected 
of Barclays, given the affordability assessment standards that were in place at that 
time, and when considered in conjunction with Mrs Cs management of her account, 
as described above, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to 
have approved Mrs Cs application for an increase in the credit limit on her account to 
£4,000.
In July 2015, Mrs C applied for another credit limit increase on her account, which 
was approved by Barclays and which resulted in the credit limit being increased to £5,000. Its notable that in the months leading up to this increase, Mrs C had made a 
payment to clear the balance of the credit account in full and had subsequently been 
maintaining the balance of her account significantly below the existing credit limit of 
£4,000.
It's also notable that the information that Barclays obtained about Mrs C from a credit
reference agency continued to suggest that Mrs C would in all likelihood be able to 
afford the potentially higher monthly repayments that an increase in the credit limit on 
her account might entail, and didnt provide anything that might indicate that Mrs C 
was in financial difficulty at that time. And as such I also dont feel that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Barclays to have increased the credit limit on Mrs Cs account to 
£5,000 when they did.
The final credit limit increase took place in December 2016. This was a significantly 
larger increase than the previous two, with the credit limit rising from £5,000 to 
£9,000. Its also notable that at that time, Mrs C confirmed that she was a 
homemaker, and therefore not working, with an income of £13,500 per annum. This 
means that the credit limit of £9,000 that Barclays approved Mrs C for here 
represented more than 65% of Mrs Cs declared annual income.
This doesnt feel sustainable to me, especially in consideration of the other external 
credit facilities totalling approximately £1,750 that Mrs C held at that time - as per the 
information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference agency - and which meant 
that after being granted an increase in the credit limit on her account to £9,000 by 
Barclays, Mrs C had available credit of approximately £10,750 with a declared annual 
income of only £13,500.
And while the credit account statements confirm that Mrs C was maintaining her 
account close to, but within, the credit limit of £5,000 at that time, and the information 
from the credit reference agency suggested that Mrs C would most likely be able to 
afford any higher monthly payments that might become due on an account with a 
£9,000 credit limit, I dont feel that providing such a high amount of credit, when 
considered as a percentage of annual income, to a customer with a relatively low 
annual income and who had declared themselves as a homemaker does constitute 
fair and responsible lending. And I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in 
Mrs Cs favour on that basis.
As such, my provisional instructions to Barclays here are that they must reimburse to 
Mrs Cs account any charges and fees that have been incurred on the account 
following the credit limit increase in December 2016, as well as any interest that has 
accrued on the account for the portion of the account balance over the previous 
credit limit of £5,000 from December 2016 onwards.
If these reimbursements result in Mrs C having a credit balance in her favour, then 
this amount must be paid to Mrs C along with 8% interest calculated to the date of 
repayment. Barclays must also remove any adverse credit file reporting that Mrs C 
may have incurred since December 2016.
Finally, because of the service issues that Mrs C experienced, and because of the
inconvenience and upset Mrs C has incurred because of this ongoing matter, 
Barclays must make a compensation payment of £200 to Mrs C. This payment may 
not take the form of a credit to Mrs Cs Barclays credit account unless Mrs C gives 
her permission for it to do so.In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs C and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Barclays confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mrs C did provide some further points for me to consider.
Included within these further points were references to an earlier credit limit increase that 
took place in 2014. However, as has been previously explained to Mrs C by our investigator, 
it isnt within the limits of our jurisdiction to be able to consider this earlier credit limit 
increase, given the length of time thats elapsed since it occurred. I concur with this position, 
and I note that Mrs C didnt object to it when it was first explained to her. As such, I can 
confirm that the credit limit increases that have been considered here are those from 2015 
onwards, as described on the opening page of this letter.
Mrs C has also stated that she didnt apply for any of the credit limit increases in question. 
This is contrary to Barclays position, which is that all three of the credit limit increases under 
consideration here were actively applied for by Mrs C.
While I appreciate that this is a point of contention for Mrs C, I dont it has any tangible 
impact on my decision here. I say this because if it were the case that Mrs C didnt apply for 
these credit limit increases its also the case that she didnt contact Barclays following their 
implementation to decline them, but accepted the further credit being provided to her. 
As such, Im satisfied that whats important here is whether the provision of the further credit 
to Mrs C can be considered as being affordable for Mrs C when it was provided, regardless 
of how the provision of that further credit may or may not have been instigated.
Mrs C has also provided details of when she was exceeding the credit limit on the account at 
various times and was incurring over limit fees as a result. However, this information 
confirms the information I had already assessed from the account statement history provided 
to this service by Barclays, and Im satisfied that my descriptions of events in the months 
leading up to the credit limit increases, as per my provisional decision letter, are accurate.
For instance, in regard to the credit limit increase that took place in April 2015, I note that 
Mrs C did incur several over limit charges on the account in 2014, but that in the first quarter 
of 2015  in the months immediately leading up to the credit limit increase  she was able to 
maintain the balance of the account within the agreed credit limit and didnt incur such 
charges. 
There was one exception to this, as described in my provisional decision letter, when       
Mrs Cs direct debit failed leading to charges being incurred. But Mrs C was able to quickly 
cover the missed payment and Barclays reimbursed to Mrs Cs account the majority of those 
charges. And, as explained, I dont feel that this incident should have reasonably given 
Barclays cause to not implement the credit limit increase in April 2015 that they did.
Mrs C has also stated that she disagrees that she told Barclays at any time that her income 
was in the region of £13,000 per year, and states that her income has always been less than 
that amount. However, this point relates to the credit limit increase to £9,000 in December 
2016. As per my provisional decision letter, I already feel that this credit limit increase wasnt 
fair and reasonable and as such I will already be upholding this aspect of Mrs Cs complaint. 
Because of this, I havent considered this point further.
Finally, Mrs C has questioned information that she has received from Barclays following a 
Data Subject Access Request she made to them. This matter lies outside the scope of this 
complaint and as such I am unable to comment further on it. However, I can confirm that 
Barclays have presented information to this service which demonstrates that they used information about Mrs C specifically, obtained from a credit reference agency, when 
conducing the affordability assessments referred to in my provisional decision letter.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I will be upholding this complaint on the 
same basis as that previously outlined in my provisional decision letter.
Putting things right
Barclays must reimburse to Mrs Cs account any charges and fees that have been incurred 
on the account following the credit limit increase in December 2016, as well as any interest 
that has accrued on the account for the portion of the account balance over the previous 
credit limit of £5,000 from December 2016 onwards.
If these reimbursements result in Mrs C having a credit balance in her favour, then this 
amount must be paid to Mrs C along with 8% interest calculated to the date of repayment. 
Barclays must also remove any adverse credit file reporting that Mrs C may have incurred 
since December 2016.
Finally, Barclays must make a compensation payment of £200 to Mrs C. This payment may 
not take the form of a credit to Mrs Cs Barclays credit account unless Mrs C gives her 
permission for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman