DRN-2572369
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are complaining about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
sold them a payment protection policy (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Mr and Mrs Ms names in 1992. 
The policy was taken out when Mr and Mrs M were applying for a mortgage. The policy 
covered Mr M only for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly cost of the policy 
was £17.50 and the monthly benefit was £250. This would have been paid for up to 12 
months for each claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contested or incomplete, as some of it is here, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words what I think most likely happened at the time, 
taking into account the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would Mr and Mrs M have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the 
sale?
Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M says the policy must have been unsuitable, because Mr M 
tried to make a claim on it when he was made redundant and this claim was refused. That 
was in 1997  and unsurprisingly it looks like the policy was cancelled shortly afterwards.
Unfortunately we dont know why the claim was refused  or indeed if it was refused fairly. 
But this decision is only about the sale of the policy, and I cant take into account the failed 
claim. I can only look at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances when they bought the policy and how 
these made  or didnt make  the policy suitable for them.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs M say they took out the PPI following a discussion with the bank. Halifax doesnt 
have the actual paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt surprising given 
the sale took place nearly 30 years ago and the mortgage ended in 1999. I wouldnt expect 
either Mr and Mrs M or Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and Mrs M 
were given a choice about buying the PPI. I cant be sure what was discussed at the time as 
I wasnt there. And I accept a member of staff might have said it was a good idea to buy the 
PPI  but that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. 
I see that it was set up to cover Mr M only. That does suggest that a conversation took place 
about the PPI at the time and it was tailored to suit Mr and Mrs Ms needs. I think its also 
likely Halifax sent the relevant literature to Mr and Mrs M after the sale. I think this would 
have been before the PPI actually started, as theres normally a delay between buying PPI 
and cover starting, which is when the mortgage begins. Thats what Halifax normally did, and 
I cant see any reason why it would treat Mr and Mrs M differently.
Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Mr and Mrs M enough information for them to know 
they didnt have to buy the PPI.
Halifax doesnt now know how it sold the policy, so its assuming it recommended it to Mr 
and Mrs M. Thats fair as the criteria for recommending a policy are higher than for other 
sales. It means Halifax needed to ensure that the PPI met their needs. From what I know of 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable for Mr M.
- Mr M was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like he would have been affected by 
any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
- Mr M says he would have received some sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy 
would pay on top of these benefits, and it looks as though it would pay for longer than his 
full sick pay lasted. That might have been important if Mrs M wasnt working.
- Halifax needed to give Mr and Mrs M enough information for them to make an informed 
choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told what the PI 
would cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Mr and Mrs M first 
knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
- Its possible that Halifax could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused them 
to change their minds about buying the policy. So they arent any worse off as a result of 
anything Halifax may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Halifax needs to do to 
put things right.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman