DRN-3564755
The complaint
Miss O, who is represented by a third party, complains that Vanquis Bank Limited 
(Vanquis) irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2018 Miss O entered into an agreement with Vanquis to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. The account had an opening credit limit of £1,000 which 
was increased to £2,500 in May 2019. 
Miss O says that Vanquis didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened her  
account. She says she was on benefits, wasnt working and her income was not as high as 
Vanquis said it was. 
Although Vanquis initially said that the account was affordable, it recently agreed to partially 
uphold Miss Os complaint, from the date of the credit limit increase. So it would be refunding 
all interest and charges from May 2019. But Miss O has rejected that offer. 
Our adjudicator agreed that Miss Os complaint ought to be partially upheld on the same 
basis as Vanquiss offer. Whilst our adjudicator thought Vanquis didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably by approving the opening of the account, it shouldnt have given her the credit 
limit increase, given that from the information it had it could be seen that her regular 
committed expenditure was higher than her income. 
As Miss O didnt agree with our adjudicators finding the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Vanquis looked into Miss Os financial situation. Based on the 
information Miss O provided during the application process, Vanquis calculated she had an 
overall annual income of around £46,580. Vanquis was also aware that at that point Miss O 
could also rely on additional weekly income from her partner. It also found that Miss O was 
generally managing her other credit accounts well. Vanquis set an opening credit limit based 
on this information. 
I think these checks showed it was likely that the credit card account was affordable for 
Miss O, having calculated that Miss O would have sufficient disposable income to manage 
her Vanquis card alongside her existing financial commitments. 
But whilst it appears that Vanquis carried out proportionate steps at the time, I still need to 
consider whether it made a fair lending decision at the outset and for each of the credit limit 
increases.
Looking at the credit limit increase, I agree with our adjudicator that it would have been 
proportionate for Vanquis to have taken steps to find out more about any changes to 
Miss Os income and expenditure. I say this taking into account that at this point Miss Os 
total monthly income was around £1,600, but with committed monthly expenditure of around 
£1,800, that likely wouldnt leave her enough to cover her living costs and committed 
expenditure. Also, Ive seen that Miss O had missed a payment  or made a late payment  
a month before she was given the increase. I therefore agree that Vanquis ought to have 
been aware that Miss O may not have been not in a position at this point to manage her 
account without getting into financial difficulty and so the credit limit increase wasnt 
affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Vanquis should have increased Miss Os credit limit beyond the 
first increase of £2,500. 
Putting things right  what Vanquis needs to do
Rework Miss Os account to ensure that from 2 May 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1,000, (being the credit 
limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Vanquis should contact Miss O to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss O has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Os credit file from 9 
February 2016 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss O, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Vanquis should also remove any adverse information from Miss Os 
credit file from 2 May 2019.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Vanquis to take off tax from this interest. Vanquis 
must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I am aware that Miss O is currently in an Insolvency Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and 
that her insolvency practitioner has expressed an interest in the compensation I have 
directed. Vanquis has also been informed of this. I therefore remind Miss O of her 
obligation to comply with the terms of the IVA. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Miss Os complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should put things right in 
the way Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman