DRN-1671921
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund payments he says 
he didnt make from his account using a new debit card.
What happened
Mr H disputes total payments of £3,340.86 between 8 and 15 October 2019. All but two of 
the payments were cash withdrawals. Mr H says he didnt receive the new card and PIN 
used to make the payments.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money. Mr H had requested the new card and PIN 
on 30 September 2019. Hed not contacted it after the three to five working days it was due 
to be sent to say he hadnt received it. During the period Mr H had received significant 
credits and all the money had been taken out using the genuine card and PIN. It didnt think 
someone else had obtained his card and PIN. As it hadnt cancelled his card immediately 
when he disputed the payments it paid him £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
Mr H had said his letter box was secure and he hadnt noticed post going missing 
before. The card and PIN were sent on separate days so she thought it unlikely that 
a third party could have anticipated these were coming and taken both.
Mr H had told her he asked for a new card and PIN because he thought someone 
had seen his PIN when he used his card for what he says was the last genuine 
withdrawal on 30 September 2019. She thought that was improbable and as hed 
retained the card he could have just changed the PIN. 
Hed been inconsistent about why he hadnt contacted Halifax earlier and in a call 
had said he knew the card was due in three to five working days.
Mr H had said his phone had broken and so he hadnt logged onto online banking 
after 28 September 2019. She thought that an unlikely coincidence and that there 
were other ways in which he could have found out his balance.
The pattern of transactions wasnt likely that of a fraudster. The person taking out the 
money seemed to have anticipated credits of £750 on 10 October 2019 and £800 on 
13 October 2019. She said she thought the transactions were quite spread out and 
no attempt had been made for payments in retailers until the last two at petrol 
stations. No attempt was made to use the card after Mr H had reported it stolen.
 
Mr H didnt agree and said that he wanted his complaint looked at again. He pointed out that 
there were balance enquiries to the account during the period of the withdrawals.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for 
these payments?
Did Mr H authorise the payments on the account?
 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely. Im 
satisfied that the payments from the account were authenticated with the genuine card and 
the correct PIN. Our investigator set out a list of these for Mr H with the times of the 
payments and any balance enquiries. She also set out the credits to his account on 10 and 
13 October 2019. I want to add that the balance on Mr Hs account on the day he requested 
the new card and PIN was £3.70. And that on 4 October 2019 he received a benefits 
payment of over £1,200. At the time he reported the fraud his balance was back to just under 
£4. And further payments from the two pre authorisations at pay at pump petrol stations 
created an overdraft when applied to the account. Mr H says he was expecting the benefits 
payments and the other credits represented money that was owed to him. But that he didnt 
know exactly when it was going to be repaid.
I need to decide whether Mr H consented to these payments. To find he didnt Id need to 
think all of the following were most likely:
There was a good reason for Mr H to request a new card and PIN at this time given 
that he could just have changed his PIN or asked Halifax to do this.
Given what he says were his concerns about the possibility of his details being found 
out he would do nothing to check what had happened to his new card and PIN for 
two weeks if he hadnt received them. 
The related coincidence that his phone was broken meant he was prepared to wait 
and not know what was happening on his account despite having no access to his 
money and previously checking his account online on a very regular basis in 
September 2019. 
Somehow both his card and PIN advice were taken by a fraudster. These were sent 
separately and so were unlikely to have arrived together. Mr H says no one knew 
hed asked for a replacement card and PIN and his letter box is secure and he only 
lives with family.
The person who obtained the card and PIN was able to take out all this money before 
Mr H realised and reported what happened.
That person somehow either knew that the further credits were due or was able to 
anticipate the money coming in and then as Mr H says make balance enquiries close 
to the time it had. And theres a reason why no further attempts were made to use 
the card or even to check the balance after Mr H had reported it missing. 
 
Im afraid that these arent all findings I think most likely based on the available evidence and 
so I think that Mr H consented to these payments and so authorised them. As a result I find 
that its fair and reasonable for Halifax to hold him responsible for the payments.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman