DRN-3124929
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Santander UK Plc. He isnt happy about the text messages he 
received warning him that he was close to his credit card limit.
  
What happened
Mr H had a credit card with Santander. During the summer of 2021 he went close to his 
credit card limit and wasnt happy Santander sent him texts about this. And that the texts 
suggested he needed to pay funds into his account if he wanted to continue using his card 
even though he wasnt over the agreed credit limit.
Santander explained to Mr H that he was registered for an alert when his account was close 
to its limit (within 10%), so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Santander thanked 
Mr H for his feedback and acknowledged how he felt about the wording of its texts. It 
explained the texts were meant to help customers manage their finances but understood that 
the wording could lead people to think they had to pay money into their account in order to 
continue using it. And told Mr H they would pass the information on so that it could review its 
wording. But Mr H remained unhappy, so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She understood 
Mr Hs frustration but felt Santanders response was fair in the circumstances. This was 
because it had acknowledged Mr Hs position and said it would use his feedback to review 
its wording. And Mr H had acknowledged the text hadnt really had an impact on him and 
that he had since opted out of the text alerts.
As Mr H didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration here and Santanders text alert could be worded slightly 
better and Im pleased to see it is using Mr Hs feedback to review its wording. But Mr H has 
made it clear that the text didnt affect him as he knew he was within his limit and financially 
he was able to pay any outstanding amount he owed. So, I think the impact on Mr H was 
limited and Santanders response was fair in the circumstances.
I accept Mr Hs general point that someone else may have interpreted the text alert to 
suggest they had to make payment in order to continue to use the credit card. And that this 
could have had an adverse effect on them if they felt pressured to make a payment. The text 
alert says please make a payment to your account before making any further purchases. 
But I think the intention is to ensure that customers are aware they are close to their limit and 
that a further purchase could take them over their credit limit leading to potential charges or 
their card being declined. 
However, as our investigator explained, I can only look at Mr Hs complaint and the impact 
this had on him. And although I think the text caused Mr H some inconvenience it didnt 
affect him financially and he clearly knew that he was within his credit limit and could 
manage his position accordingly. I note that Mr H has chosen to opt out of the text alert 
system, but Im sure many people find the alerts useful and it helps them to manage their 
finances better. 
Given all of this, I think Santander has responded fairly to Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman