DRN-2807550
The complaint
Mrs F complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA debited £3,500 from her account 
following a chargeback raised by one of her customers, and refuses to refund her.
What happened
Mrs F had an account with PayPal which she used for her business. In August 2019, one of 
her customers paid her £3,500 by way of a card payment to PayPal, and then in September 
he raised a chargeback claim for that payment. Mrs F says this claim was fraudulent, and 
she complains that PayPal did not do enough to defend it  specifically, that it did not lodge 
her evidence in time. She also argues that, after the chargeback was successful, PayPal 
should have refunded her under its seller protection policy.
PayPal says that the outcome of the chargeback process was outside of its control. It says 
the seller protection policy did not apply to the transaction. Our investigator accepted 
PayPals arguments, and so he did not uphold this complaint.
Mrs F did not accept that opinion. She said that the card scheme had told her that it would 
not have upheld the chargeback claim if PayPal had provided it with her evidence within its 
time limit, but PayPal had not met the deadline. She also insisted that the seller protection 
policy did apply. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in which I said I did not intend to uphold this complaint, but for 
different reasons to those our investigator gave. That decision read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal is not responsible for deciding the outcome of a chargeback claim  that is a matter 
for the card scheme  but it should forward its customers evidence to the card scheme in a 
timely manner so that it can be taken into account when a decision is made. In Mrs Fs case, 
the card scheme asked PayPal for its response to the claim on 30 September, and gave it 
20 days to reply. Mrs F has said that the deadline was 7 days, but I have seen the 
chargeback dispute form, and it gives a response date of 20 October, so I accept that this 
was the deadline given. (I am reinforced in that opinion by the fact that various websites 
report that 20 days is the deadline usually given.) PayPals response is dated 8 October, so 
I am satisfied that it was sent in time. I have seen the evidence which accompanied the form, 
which is the same evidence which Mrs F had sent to PayPal. So I am not persuaded that the 
chargeback claim was upheld as a result of any failure or shortcoming by PayPal.
I regret that that finding will come as a disappointment to Mrs F. But it is not within my remit 
in this complaint to comment on the card schemes decision to uphold the chargeback claim.
In some circumstances, PayPal may still refund a seller a payment which has been debited 
as a result of a chargeback, under its own seller protection policy. I have considered whether 
that should have happened here.
Our investigator thought that the policy did not apply because Mrs F had only supplied digital 
goods, and because digital goods are never covered by the policy. However, I dont agree 
with that, because digital goods are sometimes covered by the policy, provided that certain 
additional criteria have been met.1 
PayPal originally gave a different reason for why it said the seller protection policy did not 
apply. It said it had asked Mrs F for tracking information, to show that the goods were indeed 
delivered. This is an essential condition for the policy to apply, even if the transaction is 
described as eligible on PayPals website  that is to say, an eligible transaction ceases to 
be eligible if this condition has not been met. PayPal told us that Mrs F did not provide the 
information it had asked her for. However, I was not persuaded that this was a fair reason, 
because Mrs F had provided other evidence to prove that she had fulfilled her end of the 
contract. So I asked PayPal why it had not accepted that evidence. I also asked whether the 
digital goods she had sent would have been covered by its intangible goods clause.
PayPal referred me to some of the relevant clauses in the terms and conditions of Mrs Fs 
own contract with her customer. It said that according to the contract, Mrs F had only 
contracted to provide services, not goods (whether digital or otherwise). But after I referred it 
to some other clauses, PayPal accepted that this was a contract to supply digital goods as 
well. However, it claimed that Mrs F had failed to supply them. In support of that position, it 
referred me to what her customer had said when he had raised a claim under PayPals 
buyer protection policy, four days before he raised his chargeback claim. He had told it he 
had never received anything from Mrs F. PayPal had never made a decision about that 
claim, because it had been superseded by the chargeback claim (the buyer protection policy 
doesnt apply to transactions which become the subject of a chargeback dispute). PayPal 
maintained that Mrs F had not performed the contract.
The evidence which Mrs F submitted to PayPal includes an email from her customer to her, 
dated 13 August 2013, in which he acknowledges that he has received 34 files, with a total 
memory of 240 megabytes. The email he was replying to suggests (based on the filenames) 
that these files were images, which is what I would expect them to be, having regard to the 
nature of the goods and services Mrs F was providing. There is also a form, dated 11 August 
and signed by the customer, in which he acknowledges that I have received all my images 
today on a Disc and have checked that it is in working order.
As Ive said, the seller protection policy has some additional requirements for intangible 
goods, which includes digital goods. These do not appear to be onerous. The most relevant 
one here is the one about proof of delivery. That reads as follows:
For intangible or digital goods, proof of delivery means compelling evidence to show the 
item was delivered or the purchase order was fulfilled. Compelling evidence could 
include a system of record showing the date the item was sent and that it was either:
Electronically sent to the recipient, including the recipients address (email, IP, etc.), 
where applicable.
Received or accessed by the recipient.
On the face of it, the evidence I have described so far would appear to be compelling, and to 
satisfy the terms of the seller protection policy. Taken on its own, it would have been enough 
1 See https://www.paypal.com/uk/webapps/mpp/ua/useragreement-full#intangible-goods-arfor me to uphold this complaint on the basis that Mrs Fs claim under the policy should have 
succeeded.
However, I have serious doubts as a result of some other evidence I have seen, which casts 
a more dubious light on the matter.
According to the contract, Mrs Fs business is a limited company. The company is listed at 
consumeractiongroup.co.uk where there are numerous reviews alleging bad faith and fraud 
by the business.2
Another business has a large number of negative reviews at TrustPilot (83% bad reviews out 
of 153, at time of writing). Most of these reviews also allege that the business is a scam. 
Several reviews mention that the business has changed its name, and two of them mention 
that it has also been called by the same name as Mrs Fs company.
Another company, based at the same address as the one where Mrs Fs company is 
registered, received similar reviews on TrustPilot.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mrs Fs claim under PayPals seller protection 
policy ought to have succeeded.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs F did not accept my provisional findings. Firstly, she pointed out that the contract was 
not only to provide digital goods, but physical goods as well  the disc containing the digital 
files, and there was proof that the customer had received that. Secondly, the negative 
reviews were all about a rival company, which had nothing to do with her own. That rival 
company had once occupied the same address as Mrs Fs own company, but that was 
before her own company was established there.
PayPal had nothing to add.
My findings
I dont believe that there is another entirely separate company, with the same name as 
Mrs Fs company, which is in the same line of work, and which coincidentally used to be 
based at the same address as her own company. Im sure that its all the same business, 
and that the negative reviews to which I have referred relate to her business.
For that reason, I remain of the view that her claim under the seller protection policy would 
not have succeeded, and that it would not be fair and reasonable of me to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021. But there is no need to reply, and if we dont hear 
from her then we will assume that she rejects it.
2 In my provisional decision, I named all of the businesses I referred to, and provided links to the 
relevant online reviews. To preserve Mrs Fs anonymity, I have omitted them from my final decision 
because it will be published. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman