DRN-3767221
The complaint
Mr S complains Match The Cash Limited trading as Gurantormyloan.tv (MTC) irresponsibly 
accepted him as a guarantor for a loan approved to a third party.
What happened
In November 2020 MTC approved a loan of £6,000 to a third party, the borrower. The loan 
had a term of 36 months with repayments of around £290 a month. Mr S was approved as 
the guarantor for this loan, meaning should the borrower be unable to maintain payments 
Mr S was liable for full repayment of the loan. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service in May 2022. He said he had been coerced by the 
borrower in standing as the guarantor for this loan; and that had MTC completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks it would have identified the loan wasnt affordable for him. 
MTC issued its final response in June 2022, not upholding Mr Ss complaint. It said it hadnt 
made an error in providing this loan, taking into account all of the information it had available 
to it at the point of approval. Unhappy with MTCs response, Mr S brought his complaint to 
our service for consideration. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and ultimately upheld it. He said, based on the 
terms of credit being provided, and the information MTC had obtained about Mr Ss 
circumstances as part of its checks, that he considered it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks; and had gone on to make a fair lending decision based on those 
checks. 
He then went on to consider the coercion part of Mr Ss complaint. And on review of this, he 
considered MTC ought reasonably to have concluded Mr S wasnt a suitable candidate to 
remain as guarantor to the loan; and that he should be removed from all liabilities under the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement. He also said MTC should remove any adverse 
information reported to credit reference agencies about the loan.
Mr S agreed with our investigators approach to the redress of the complaint. But, he raised 
some concerns with the information that had been detailed within our investigators view, 
largely based on evidence and timings that had been relied upon when reaching the 
outcome, which Mr S said meant the view wasnt factually correct. 
MTC disagreed with our investigators assessment. In response it provided details of the 
checks it completed on Mr S at the time of the lending, as well as information relating to 
Mr Ss coercion argument. In summary, it said:
It considers it completed reasonable and proportionate checks when approving this 
loan to the borrower and accepting Mr S as the guarantor;
There was no evidence that Mr S was coerced into acting as the guarantor for this 
loan at inception, and that no one would have been able to foresee the change in 
circumstances between Mr S and the borrower; and
As it doesnt feel an error was made by approving Mr S as the guarantor it wouldnt 
now look to remove him from the guarantee and indemnity agreement. 
Our investigator reviewed the information and confirmed it didnt change his outcome. As a 
resolution couldnt be agreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Mr S has provided us with a great level of detail to support his complaint. He has also 
pointed out inaccuracies within our investigators assessment, and how he feels the 
evidence in his complaint should be reviewed and commented on. 
Both parties know the background to this complaint, so Ive purposely not gone into 
considerable detail as I dont consider that to be necessary. I would explain though that my 
decision here focuses on what I consider to be the key points. So, while it may not touch on 
all of the evidence presented by both parties, I would like to assure Mr S and MTC that Ive 
carefully considered all of the evidence that has been provided when reaching my decision.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ss complaint. 
These are:
1. Did MTC complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower to satisfy itself 
they were in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown the borrower would have been able to do so?
2. Did MTC obtain Mr Ss properly informed consent before binding him to the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement?
3. Did MTC complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself that he 
was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower didnt?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr S would have been able to do so?
4. Did MTC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did MTC complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower to satisfy itself they 
were in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably? If so, did MTC go on to make a fair 
lending decision?
MTC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to the borrower. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time MTC lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess the borrowers ability 
to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for MTC to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. The fact that 
this loan was secured by a guarantee and indemnity agreement in no way lessened MTCs 
obligations in this regard.
MTC hasnt provided our service with any details of its checks into the borrower from the 
time of the lending. The relationship between Mr S and the borrower has broken down, so I 
dont consider any reasonable success of Mr S being able to obtain detailed evidence of the 
borrowers financial circumstances at the time of the lending; and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to suggest he attempts to obtain this information in any event.
So, as Ive got no information in relation to the borrowers affordability, I cant safely 
conclude that MTC didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower. 
And for this reason, it therefore follows I cant safely conclude MTCs decision to lend based 
on the borrowers financial circumstances was unfair. 
Therefore, contrary to any information to suggest otherwise, I dont consider MTC acted 
unreasonably when approving this loan on the borrowers circumstances.
Ive therefore gone on to consider Mr Ss circumstances. 
Did MTC obtain Mr Ss properly informed consent before binding him to the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement?
Ive been provided with telephone calls that took place between Mr S and MTC during the 
application process; and the guarantee and indemnity agreement Mr S electronically signed. 
During the security call MTC set out the key terms of acting as guarantor for the loan. This 
included Mr Ss responsibilities should the borrower fail to maintain payments, and it asked if 
he understood his responsibilities and that he may be called on to make the payments 
should the situation arise. Mr S confirmed during this call that he understood. MTC also 
asked if Mr S was being pressured into acting as the guarantor on two separate occasions 
during the call. In both instances Mr S confirmed he wasnt.
In addition, Mr S also confirmed during the security call that he had received the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement, which set out the key responsibilities and obligations on him as 
guarantor, and that he accepted its terms. And as Ive found above, this was electronically 
signed confirming acceptance. 
Mr S has said he was coerced into standing as the guarantor for this loan. Hes said that the 
borrower was manipulative and used coercive control to get Mr S to guarantor this loan. And 
that shortly after the loan was approved the borrower severed all contact. 
While I dont doubt Mr Ss testimony, Ive seen nothing which leads me to conclude MTC 
was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware at the point of the lending that Mr S was 
being coerced to act as guarantor. As Ive found above, Ive listened to the call where Mr Ss 
consent is obtained and Im satisfied there was nothing within the call, or any other actions at 
the time the loan was approved, which ought reasonably to have led MTC to have questioned whether Mr S was entering into the guarantee and indemnity agreement under 
his own free will. 
So, Im satisfied Mr S was reasonably aware of his role as guarantor before the loan was 
approved, and that MTC obtained his properly informed consent.
Did MTC complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself he was in a 
position to afford to repay the loan sustainably, should he be called upon to do so? If so, did 
MTC go on to make a fair lending decision?
MTC has provided our service with details of the checks it completed when assessing Mr Ss 
affordability to sustainably afford to repay the loan, should the situation arise. 
MTC verified Mr Ss income and expenditure and has provided Mr Ss bank statements, 
generally covering a period of three months prior to the loan being agreed. It has also 
provided the credit file check it obtained and has provided a call where Mr Ss income and 
expenditure is discussed. 
So, as MTCs checks verified all of the information Mr S provided, Im satisfied they were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.
Mr S confirmed that he was a landlord, and his income was generated via properties he 
rented out. The bank statements evidenced two separate credits from property management 
companies which made up Mr Ss income. And while Mr Ss regular expenses appeared low, 
his explanation that he lived in his home with a parent who paid all of the bills feels 
reasonable for MTC to have accepted, especially as Mr Ss testimony was supported by the 
information within the credit file check and the bank statements he had provided. There was 
evidence of payments to Mr Ss existing credit commitments which appeared to be 
maintained well. And the credit file showed no signs that Mr S had been, or currently was, in 
a bankruptcy order, IVA, or had CCJs registered against him. 
So, taking all of this into account I dont consider there was anything which ought reasonably 
to have put MTC on notice that further scrutiny was required. 
MTC took all of this information and calculated that Mr S would be left with around £2,000 
disposable income per month after repayment of this loan was taken into account. 
MTCs affordability calculations show Mr S had a healthy disposable income and would be 
able to meet the repayments towards this loan, should the situation arise, without causing 
financial harm or having to borrow further to meet the repayments. So, I havent seen 
anything within the information Mr S declared, or the checks MTC completed, which leads 
me to conclude the loan was unaffordable to Mr S. 
Therefore, Im satisfied MTCs proportionate checks led to it making a fair lending decision 
that Mr S could sustainably afford to meet the payments to this loan should the situation 
arise; and therefore, it fairly concluded he was a suitable candidate to act as guarantor to 
this loan, based on his financial circumstances at the time. 
Did MTC act unfairly or unreasonably in some way?
Mr S has said he was coerced into acting as guarantor for this lending by the borrower. He 
has said the borrower manipulated him and built a relationship with him over many months, 
building trust and an emotional connection, to a point where the borrower said he would no 
longer continue his relationship with Mr S if he wouldnt guarantee this and other lending. 
Mr S has said he feels the borrower targeted him due to his vulnerabilities. Ive carefully considered Mr Ss testimony and having done so, I find it persuasive.
Mr S has provided our service with copies of numerous messages between him and the 
borrower, pre and post this lending, evidencing the difference in relationship. There are also 
messages which Mr S has said are from the borrowers partner, which further supports his 
argument. Based on this evidence I consider there was already coercion in existence 
between the borrower and Mr S before and at the point of this lending. And that Mr S was 
being manipulated and controlled into acting as guarantor for the borrower. 
Mr S has also provided this service with medical evidence, which on review I do consider 
does indicate, due to his personal circumstances, that he is someone especially susceptible 
to harm, and as such means he is a vulnerable customer as defined by the FCAs guidance 
and principles, published in February 2021. While I appreciate this guidance and principles 
came into effect after this loan was approved, MTC did still have a responsibility to treat Mr S 
fairly before this time, and take account of this guidance and principles when dealing with 
Mr S and his representatives from February 2021 onwards. 
Mr S contacted MTC within a month of the loan being approved to raise concerns. He sent 
MTC an email in early January 2021 stating that the borrower had refused all communication 
with him, and that he had been blocked for a number of days from being able to contact him. 
The borrower was copied into this email and responded with accusations against Mr S; 
which Mr S then replied to, suggesting there was no longer any concerns and that this was a 
private matter between the two of them. 
I consider given that Mr S had felt the need to send this email, copying in the borrower to 
prompt a response, ought to have raised concerns for MTC. I also consider Mr Ss response, 
which was very much a contradiction of his initial message, in essence withdrawing that of 
his previous message, should have put MTC on notice that there were some serious 
problems with the relationship between Mr S and the borrower. 
From the notes I have on file, it doesnt appear MTC took any action at this stage in 
response to these emails. 
In July 2021 MTC received contact from a solicitor acting on Mr Ss behalf. The details 
confirmed, amongst other things, that the relationship between Mr S and the borrower was a 
coercive one. It explained that the borrower would use money to look to control Mr S, 
ceasing contact with him when he didnt agree to the borrowers demands. It also informed 
MTC that Mr S had provided the borrower with other money across a prolonged period of 
time and had acted as guarantor on another loan around the same time as this one. And that 
once the loans had been advanced to Mr S and forwarded to the borrower, they had severed 
all contact with Mr S and blocked him on all social media channels. 
MTC knows further details included within this letter, so I dont intent to repeat them all here, 
but I think it was suitably clear, given the information contained within the letter, and taking 
into account what MTC now knows about Mr Ss mental and physical health (which I 
consider it ought to have looked to understand in more detail on receipt of this letter), that 
this did appear to be a relationship of coercion, and it was more likely than not that this 
coercion was already taking place at the point that this loan was approved. 
The messages Mr S has provided this service further support his testimony and build a 
picture of manipulation and emotional control. And given the documentary evidence Ive 
seen about Mr Ss mental and physical health; I consider he is and was someone more 
susceptible to manipulation and coercive control. I think MTC ought to have taken more careful consideration of the information it received in 
January and July 2021, rather than, as it appears, simply dismissing it as a falling out or 
private matter between the borrower and Mr S. I say this because I consider its clear that 
the borrower was manipulating the relationship with Mr S, and by withholding contact knew 
he was playing on Mr Ss mental health conditions and putting pressure on him, in effect 
coercing him into making payments to this loan. 
So, while Ive found above that Mr S was aware of his responsibilities and obligations as a 
guarantor at the point of the loan; and that there was no evidence to suggest to MTC that 
Mr S agreed to the guarantee and indemnity agreement because of coercion at the outset; I 
cant agree the same is true in the months that followed and the evidence that MTC was 
provided. 
Im satisfied that had MTC taken this matter more seriously, it ought to have identified that 
Mr S had been coercively controlled prior to this lending being approved, and as such 
coercion existed when Mr S entered into this relationship as the guarantor for the borrowers 
lending, creating an unfair relationship which has now become evident. 
 
Im satisfied MTC ought reasonably to have undertaken more investigation after receiving 
the letter from Mr Ss solicitors in July 2021. Had it done this I consider it ought reasonably to 
have identified that Mr S is a vulnerable customer, who had been manipulated and coerced 
by the borrower, creating an unfair relationship; and that Mr S was therefore no longer a 
suitable candidate to stand as guarantor to this loan, and never had been from the start.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied Mr S reasonably made Match The Cash Limited trading as 
Gurantormyloan.tv aware of the coercive relationship between him and the borrower, and 
that Match The Cash Limited trading as Gurantormyloan.tv ought reasonably to have 
concluded Mr S was no longer, and had never been, a suitable candidate to act as guarantor 
to this lending, it needs to take the following action in resolution of this complaint:
Remove Mr S from his obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement;
Refund any payments Mr S has made to the loan and add 8% simple interest* 
calculated on any payments made, from the date they were paid by Mr S, to the date 
the complaint is settled; and
Remove any adverse information about this loan recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Match The Cash Limited trading as Gurantormyloan.tv to 
deduct tax from this interest. Match The Cash Limited trading as Gurantormyloan.tv should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint about Match The Cash Limited trading as 
Gurantormyloan.tv and direct it to take the above action in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman