DRN-3782237
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Brightside Insurance Services Limited mishandled her motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Brightside, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees
and others insofar as I hold Brightside responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mrs M used Brightside as an insurance intermediary who set up an insurance policy with a
syndicate of insurers. The policy was for a year from 22 January 2022. Mrs M was the
policyholder. Her husband was a named driver.
Mrs M paid a deposit of about £46.00 and agreed to pay the balance of the yearly premium
by 11 instalments of about £35.00. That made a total of about £430.00.
The insurers asked Brightside to ask Mrs M for further documentation.
Not having received the documentation, the insurers or Brightside cancelled the policy.
In late February 2022, Mrs M complained to Brightside that she hadnt heard anything about
cancellation until she noticed that it hadnt taken the direct debit for the February instalment.
By a final response dated early March 2022, Brightside turned down the complaint.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us without delay. She asked that the cancellation costs
should be cancelled.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that, as
Brightside only used one method of communication to try and contact Mrs M, it hadnt made
reasonable attempts to get in touch with her. He recommended that Brightside should:
1. ask the insurer if it would be willing to remove the cancellation from any internal and 
external databases; and
2. pay Mrs M £200.00 to apologise for the trouble it caused her.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M  
and to Brightside on 20 October 2022. I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied that  by sending the emails - Brightside did enough to contact
Mrs M about the request for documents and the seven -day notice of cancellation (as 
well as the email confirming cancellation). So - unlike the investigator- I wasnt 
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Brightside to ask the insurers to remove 
the cancellation from any internal and external databases or to pay compensation.
Subject to any further information from Mrs M or from Brightside, my provisional decision 
was that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Brightside agreed with the provisional decision.
Mrs M disagreed with the provisional decision. she says, in summary, that:
She does not recall choosing email contact.
Once Brightside got no reply, they shouldve used another contact method.
Our published decisions show that Brightside have in the past sent texts along with 
emails and letters requesting more documents. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Brightsides statement that its terms of business included the following:
We or the insurer may cancel the policy if there is a good reason for doing so. Some 
examples of situations where there is a good reason for cancelling your policy
include:

You have failed to supply necessary documentation to support your application
(such as evidence of No Claim Discount); 
If your policy is cancelled in this way Brightside Insurance Services Ltd or your
insurer will send you seven daysnotice to either the email address or postal address 
used to set up the insurance informing you that you are no longer covered and that 
you need to make alternative arrangements.
The terms dont say that Brightside will send a cancellation notice by multiple means or by
text.
If a business cancels a policy, that can have serious consequences for the policyholder.
We think its good industry practice for the business to use the means of communication that
reflects the policyholders communication preference to warn them about the cancellation
and to confirm the policy has been cancelled. If the policyholder doesnt have a 
communication preference, it will be appropriate for the business to use the same means of
communication as they have used previously with the policyholder.
It is also helpful for a business to use two means of communication, such as email and letter
 although wed not necessarily expect this unless the business was aware of a potential
problem with the means theyd used in the past.
Generally speaking, if the business has sent notice of cancellation using the appropriate
means of communication, and has followed its own procedures, were likely to say it did what
it was required to do.I accept Brightsides evidence that  when she took out the policy - Mrs M had said that her 
preferred method of receiving contact was by email. Shed given an address that included 
her first name and a last name that wasnt the same as in the policy or as her husbands last 
name but couldve been her previous name.
Brightside used that email address for its welcome letter. Mrs M has said that she received
that welcome letter. It included the following:
What do you need to do next?
Nothing youre all set. We dont need any more information
Nevertheless, the insurers asked Brightside to ask Mrs M for documentation. And I consider
that Brightside had to deal with that request.
From its records, I accept that Brightside sent an email to Mrs M on 20 January 2022 asking
for driving licences and other documents by 27 January to avoid cancellation. Brightside
sent a similar email on about 2 February asking for documents by 9 February.
Brightside sent an email to Mrs M on 9 February 2022 giving her seven days notice of
cancellation of the policy on 16 February.
Brightside sent an email confirming cancellation on 16 February. It asked her to pay
£93.29 inclusive of its £60.00 cancellation fee.
Brightside didnt send any texts to Mrs M before the cancellation  although it sent her two
afterwards, chasing payment.
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ms statement that she didnt receive the emails asking her for
documents or the email giving seven days notice of cancellation.
I accept that in other cases Brightside has used multiple methods of communication.
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that  by sending the emails - Brightside did enough to contact
Mrs M about the request for documents and the seven-day notice of cancellation (as well as 
the email confirming cancellation). So - unlike the investigator- I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Brightside to ask the insurers to remove the cancellation from any 
internal and external databases or to pay compensation.
Brightside said that it had received a refund from the insurers, but Mrs M still owed a balance
of £93.29 including its £60.00 cancellation fee. Im satisfied that the cancellation fee was in
line with its terms of business and the administrative work involved in dealing with the
cancellation. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Brightside not to charge that 
cancellation fee.
From the £93.29, £60.00 was the cancellation fee. The other £33.29 hasnt been explained
by Brightside. But Mrs M had cover from about 22 January to about 16 February 2022. And
she had paid only about £46.00 out of an expected cost for the year of about £430.00.
So I find it more likely than not that the £33.29 was a charge from the insurers rather than
from Brightside. I dont find it fair to direct Brightside not to pass that charge on to Mrs M.
Mrs M was concerned to discover that she no longer had car insurance. And I find it likely
that she or her husband had to make urgent arrangements. But I dont conclude that
Brightside had done anything wrong in relation to the cancellation. So I dont agree with the 
investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct Brightside to pay compensation. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I
dont direct Brightside Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman