DRN-2512448
The complaint
 Mrs H complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) failed to 
allow her online access to her account, and complains about related issues.
What happened
 In 2019 Mrs H had an account with Cashplus, and her husband, who I will call Mr H, was an 
additional card holder (not a joint account holder). She is therefore the sole eligible 
complainant in this case.
From June 2019 Mrs H was intermittently unable to access her account online. It is not in 
dispute that this was due to a technical error for which Cashplus is liable. This state of affairs 
persisted until September (according to Cashplus) or October (according to Mrs H). It is not 
in dispute that Mrs H was still unable to use online banking while she and her husband were 
on holiday together overseas in September.
Mrs H complains about a variety of problems which arose as a result, in addition to the 
general inconvenience of being unable to use online banking while the problem went on. 
She says that some direct debit payments were missed, including a direct debit for an 
insurance policy, which resulted in the policy being cancelled and a default notice being 
issued. Her husband tried to make some card payments which were declined. She spent 
hours on the phone to Cashplus (while abroad) waiting for the bank to answer, and the bank 
did not call her back when it said it would. She says the experience was stressful and that it 
spoiled their holiday.
Mrs H complained to Cashplus, which upheld part of her complaint, apologised and offered 
her £25 in compensation. But Cashplus denied that the direct debits and card payments had 
been wrongly declined. The direct debits had failed because there had not been enough 
money in the account and because in one instance the merchant had used the wrong 
reference. The attempted card payments were contactless payments which had exceeded 
the contactless limit. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mrs H brought this complaint to 
our Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. She agreed that the card payments and direct 
debits had been declined correctly. But she pointed out that Cashplus had also sent Mrs H 
three text messages warning her that three more direct debits might not be processed 
because there was not enough money in the account, and that although those direct debits 
actually were paid (there being enough money in the account in the end), Mrs H would not 
have known that, and would have been left thinking that they had not been paid. She also 
took into account the fact that Mrs H was more vulnerable to stress and anxiety due to her 
poor health, the holiday being immediately followed by a hospital appointment for a serious 
illness. She took into account the impact on both Mrs and Mr H, and concluded that another 
£250 should be added to Cashpluss offer, making a total of £275.
Cashplus asked for an ombudsman to review this case. I wrote a provisional decision which 
read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I am minded to uphold this complaint in part, but to a lesser extent than the investigator did, 
and so I propose to award £150 compensation. I will explain why.
Since Mr H is not a Cashplus customer in his own right, he is not eligible to complain to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service under the rules which set out our jurisdiction. That means 
I can only award compensation to Mrs H for her own inconvenience, even if her husband 
was also affected by what happened.
I agree that the declined card payments and failed direct debits were not the result of any 
error by Cashplus, for the reasons which have already been explained. However, as well as 
the text messages about the direct debits which ultimately were paid, Cashplus also sent her 
an email warning her that she did not have enough money in her account, several hours 
after she had made a payment into her account of over £2,200. That must have caused her 
some concern, although I think she probably realised that it was a mistake. Nevertheless, it 
upset her enough that she complained about it that same day.
However, I think the crux of this complaint is that Mrs H was left without normal and 
unimpaired access to online banking for such a long time. Whether that was for four months 
or five, it certainly must have been very inconvenient, especially when telephone banking 
turned out to be such a poor substitute. I have taken into account the fact that it did not 
prevent Mrs H from using her account, and that she could still access online banking 
sometimes, but I still think that £150 (that is, £125 in addition to the £25 already offered) 
would be fair compensation for this issue.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs H did not accept my decision. She insisted that her husband was a joint account holder 
and that he should be compensated too. She said £150 was not enough. So I asked 
Cashplus for evidence to verify this.
Cashplus accepted my provisional decision. It said it does not offer joint accounts. It 
provided evidence from its systems to show that Mrs H is the sole account holder.
What Ive decided  and why
Based on what Ive been told and shown, I remain of the view that Mr H is not a joint account 
holder but merely an additional cardholder on a sole account. That means that while he has 
a card which he can use to make purchases from the account, he is not actually Cashpluss 
customer, since he is not responsible for any debt to Cashplus arising under the account. 
Therefore he is not eligible to complain to our Service under our rules. So I can only award 
compensation to Mrs H.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus) to pay Mrs H £150.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman