DRN-3933739
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about poor service from HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
when trying to open a bank account. Mr and Mrs W, who are directors of C, bring the 
complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
In summary, this complaint arises from Cs attempts to open a business account with HSBC. 
C was incorporated in May 2019. And from what I can see, C initially applied for an account 
a couple of months later.
In January 2021 there was further contact with HSBC regarding an account. But in May 2021 
Mrs W was told there was an error, the application had to be cancelled and a new one would 
need to be submitted.
This third application appeared to be proceeding satisfactorily, but in July 2021, Mr W 
expressed concern that another director was receiving multiple emails requesting 
identification and verification documents, which had already been provided. 
C complained. In its response, HSBC acknowledged that the identification document 
appeared to have been lost internally. It told C that had the document been destroyed in 
error, this would have been done by secure confidential waste disposal. It confirmed that the 
application had been cancelled and offered £100 compensation in recognition of the 
mistake.
Mr and Mrs W brought Cs complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator thought 
£100 was fair compensation, but thought HSBC should also contact Mr and Mrs W to 
discuss what they should do to open an account.
In response to our investigators opinion, HSBC confirmed that applications only last for 30 
days, so a new application would be required if C still wanted an account.
Mr and Mrs W, on behalf of C, did not accept our investigators view. They sought 
compensation of £1500-2000 and wanted a proper apology. Mrs W said the situation caused 
considerable financial loss. And she was very concerned not knowing what had happened to 
the lost identification document and only having HSBCs assurance it wouldve been 
securely destroyed.
Our investigator reiterated his opinion that £100 was fair compensation for HSBCs mistake. 
Mrs W said that over a period of 18 months, shed spend many hours on the phone and 
computer in connection with the applications. She requested an ombudsmans decision, so 
her case has come to me to decide. 
From reviewing the case file, I understand C subsequently lost faith in HSBC and secured 
banking services from another provider. So whats left for me to decide is whether the 
compensation offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable.
Prior to issuing this decision, we requested further information from C, about the history of 
the applications, the financial losses Mrs W referred to and the inconvenience to the 
business. Our investigator initially contacted C by email, then by phone and, at Mr Ws 
request, issued a reminder email to Mrs W, detailing the information sought. No further 
information has been provided, so I now consider it appropriate to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think HSBCs offer to settle the complaint is fair. Ill explain my reasoning.
Clearly, there were difficulties over a prolonged period. I can appreciate this wouldve been 
frustrating for Cs directors. Mrs W has referred to difficulties communicating with the bank 
during the Covid pandemic. But from what Ive seen, not all the difficulties C encountered 
when trying to open the business account were down to HSBC. From HSBCs information, it 
appears the first application did not proceed due to questions regarding the information 
needed to meet the banks know your customer obligations. 
The second application also appears to have encountered issues. Mrs W has referred to 
difficulties answering security questions. HSBCs records show she spoke to the bank in 
May 2021 and was told there was an error as the application wasnt completed, it would 
need to be cancelled and a new one submitted. 
The third application appears to have been progressing satisfactorily. But HSBC has 
accepted it made an error in losing an important document belonging to one of Cs directors. 
This resulted in the application being cancelled. And I appreciate the uncertainty around 
what exactly happened to the lost document remains a concern.  
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W were worried that the delay in opening a business bank 
account meant they were using a personal account to operate the business. They were 
concerned this would present legal issues for them. As the complainant in this case is the 
business, C, I cant award compensation for distress, because a business  as a separate 
legal entity - cant experience distress. But I can award compensation for inconvenience to 
the business.
In the absence of any further information from C, I have to decide whether £100 is fair 
compensation for Bs error, based on the information Ive seen. I understand the directors of 
C had a longstanding relationship with HSBC and expected better. Like all banks, HSBC has 
to comply with strict requirements when opening accounts and Ive not seen evidence to 
suggest HSBC treated C unfairly during the earlier applications. But Cs directors were 
inconvenienced by having to reapply for banking services and replace the document. Time 
taken dealing with those matters was time away from the business. Overall, I think £100 
fairly acknowledges and reflects the mistake and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC should pay the £100 compensation already offered.My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC should pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman