The complaint 
Miss As complaint is about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) and its actions 
in sending her arrears letters. Miss A said that this was unfair and unreasonable, as was the 
time taken to update her credit records. Shes also unhappy that Halifax wouldnt accept 
liability for the direct debit being cancelled and wants more compensation.
Background
Miss A had a mortgage with Halifax. She said that it sent her arrears letters when she
wasnt in arrears, and reported this to the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Miss A felt that this was unfair and unreasonable, and it shouldve corrected her
credit records earlier. Miss A also said that Halifax should accept liability for the direct
debit being cancelled.
Miss A complained to Halifax, though she accepted Halifax wasnt to blame for the
cancellation of the direct debit.
Halifax said the direct debit was cancelled by the payer through her bank according
to the computer logs, though it noted Miss As bank said the direct debit was
cancelled in July 2019 due to system error and then blamed Halifax; Halifax wasnt
responsible for the cancellation.
But Halifax agreed that the arrears letter sent on 1 October 2019 shouldnt have been
sent as Miss A wasnt in arrears, but said the arrears letter of August and 29 October
2019 were correct as Miss A didnt pay until after the due date of 28th and after the
letter was sent. Halifax paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by
delay and poor customer service (such as not responding promptly to Miss A's
emails), and confirmed that there would be no negative information from it about
mortgage arrears in her credit records held by the CRAs for August, September and
October 2019.
Miss A didnt agree and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
Miss A doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
I note that initially Miss As bank accepted fault for the cancelled direct debit, but later
changed its position. Halifax has provided the computer log of the cancellation which
shows it wasnt cancelled by Halifax, while the evidence from Miss As bank isnt as
strong. Im not persuaded that the evidence available to me shows that its more
likely than not Halifax cancelled the direct debit, particularly as there was no obvious
DRN-1705903reason for it to do so  it didnt speak to Miss A that day or the day before for 
example.
While Miss A has said that the negative information in her credit records mightve had
an effect on her job, theres no evidence that it did and we dont award compensation
on the basis of what mightve happened. The August arrears letters were correct
(due to the cancellation of the direct debit) and the October letters were generated
about the same time as Miss A paid the due payments, I accept that she wasnt in
arrears, but I am conscious that arrears letters are necessary to alert consumers of
issues and to resolve matters. But it was fair and reasonable to Halifax to ensure that
the arrears were removed from the CRAs records after it was told Miss As bank
accepted responsibility; theres no evidence that any financial loss was caused by the
delay.
Halifax has paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor
customer service and delays. I think poor customer service covers not just the failure
to respond promptly to Miss As emails, but also the sending of arrears letters in
these circumstances. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered,
but while I accept Miss A was upset and concerned, I think £200 compensation is fair
and reasonable, particularly as I havent found Halifax to be at fault in relation to the
cancellation of the direct debit at the end of July 2019.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman