DRN-4382593
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed money from their account 
unfairly. 
As Mrs J is the principal complainant, I will refer to her throughout my decision for ease.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In early 2023, Barclays received a fraud report from a third-party bank claiming that funds 
held in Mrs Js account were obtained by fraud. The third-party bank requested that the 
funds be returned to its customer.
Barclays have said that, in line with its terms and conditions, it froze Mrs Js account to 
investigate the report and provided her with an opportunity to submit evidence of entitlement 
to those funds. 
Mrs J gave Barclays documentation to support her claim that she legitimately held the funds 
in her account, including evidence of the money being provided to her by the sender and a 
contractual agreement on how it was to be spent.
Barclays reviewed the evidence provided by both Mrs J and the third-party bank and decided 
she wasnt a witting participant in fraud. It therefore removed the restrictions from the 
account. But it decided to return the remaining funds in the account, totalling £7,158, to the 
third-party bank.
Mrs J was unhappy with this. She says that she legitimately held the funds and Barclays had 
no right returning them. She also felt that Barclays actions caused further detriment to her in 
legitimising the senders claim and subsequently caused harm to her reputation.
Barclays looked into Mrs Js complaint but didnt agree itd made and error. So, Mrs J 
approached our service for an independent review.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded Barclays 
had made an error. In summary, they thought that Barclays didnt have a right to return the 
funds back to the sender. They agreed that the error in returning the funds did cause Mrs J 
distress and inconvenience and recommended it pay £250 in compensation. However, they 
didnt recommend that Barclays should reimburse the funds as they were gifted and not 
intended for personal use by Mrs J as part of the contract.
Mrs J didnt agree with Investigators assessment or recommendations. She agreed she 
wasnt entitled to be reimbursed the money that had been returned to the sender, but she 
wasnt happy with the compensation recommended. She argued that the error caused 
serious damage to her reputation and resulted in personal threats and an online bullying 
campaign.
As Mrs J didnt agree with the Investigators findings, the matter has now been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with all parties, and the Investigator, that Barclays werent entitled to send 
the funds back to receiving bank. Im also in agreement that Mrs J isnt entitled to a 
reimbursement of these funds despite the error as these were gifted with contractual terms 
for what they were to be used for. And this wasnt for Mrs Js personal use. 
As all parties agree on these complaint points, I dont intend to cover them again and give 
findings. But I will naturally refer to evidence relating to these points when making my finding 
on the matter still in dispute.
Barclays has agreed to pay the £250 recommended by the Investigator to compensate for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. But Mrs J doesnt think this is a fair reflection of the 
impact of its actions. 
Mrs J was in dispute with the sending bank account holder over the money that was gifted. 
And Mrs J has argued that Barclays action in returning the funds to the sender legitimised 
the senders dispute and, in turn, led to a campaign against her after the return of funds was 
disclosed by the third-party in the dispute.
I have considered Mrs Js arguments carefully and empathise with the trauma shed suffered 
here. Mrs J has provided evidence to support the fact that she was having to deal with 
personal family issues along with relentless campaigns against her by various methods. But 
I can only hold Barclays liable where it is the cause of these factors.
While I understand Mrs J will be disappointed, I dont find that Barclays should be held 
accountable for the distress caused to her by the factors Ive described above. Barclays 
wasnt the primary cause of the experience she went through. And I dont find it reasonably 
could have foreseen that its error would have led to the third-party using this in a defamatory 
way.
I realise that Mrs J feels that £250 is an insulting amount to award considering what shes 
been through. But I dont find it fair or reasonable to expect Barclays to pay compensation 
for the impact others have had on her that was outside its control. 
Nevertheless, Barclays has made an error. And that error has no doubt caused Mrs J further 
distress and inconvenience on top of all of the issues she was facing at that time. For that 
alone, I find that £250 is an appropriate award in the circumstances to compensate her. She 
clearly felt insulted by the decision to remove the funds from her account when they 
shouldnt have been. And she had been caused further inconvenience from having to 
dispute this with the bank.
Mrs J has also questioned how the third-party knew so much about her account and feels 
Barclays has breached data protection laws in disclosing her personal information. But I 
cant see Barclays has ever communicated with anyone other than the sending bank as part 
of the claim. And it cant be held responsible for any information disclosed by a third-party.Putting things right
Barclays made an error in returning funds from Mr and Mrs Js account to a third-party bank. 
And for the distress and inconvenience caused by that error, it should pay her £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to:
Pay Mr and Mrs J £250 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman