DRN-1393396
The complaint
This complaint is about Ms Ks mortgage with TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree. Shes 
unhappy that Whistletree threatened her with the possibility of possession unless she agreed 
to her property being marketed with a different estate agent.
What happened
Ill set out only the briefest of summaries, as Ms Ks circumstances are quite specific, and 
extremely sensitive. Ive read everything Ms Ks told us about her situation but I wont repeat 
any of the detail here, in order to respect her privacy and minimise the risk of identification 
when this decision us published.
The mortgage that is the subject of the complaint is secured on property that is both Ms Ks 
home and her business premises. Its a joint loan but Ms Ks relationship with the other 
borrower ended some years ago. The other borrower makes no contribution to the mortgage 
payments, and Ms K has been unable to keep up with them on her own. 
The mortgaged property has been on the market since May 2018. One or two parties 
expressed interest in it, but no firm offer was made that was likely to result in a sale. In 
July 2019, Whistletree said it wanted Ms K to change estate agents, but she was reluctant, 
because the agent Whistletree was suggesting she instruct had recently valued the property 
at a much lower figure than the current agent was marketing it for and which she believes it 
to be worth.
Ms K complained, saying it was unfair of Whistletree to try and force her to sell at a lower 
price, and finds talk of possession very distressing. She wanted to be given more time to try 
and complete a sale with one or other of two interest parties. 
Whistletree rejected the complaint and it came to us. Our investigator issued his view in 
December 2019, saying he didnt think it was unfair of Whistletree to want to change agents 
when so long had passed without a firm offer. Ms K asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make a general observation before dealing with the substance of the complaint. Ms K has 
said that Whistletree appears to have accepted that the other borrower cant make any 
contribution to the mortgage payments. Thats not something I can consider here in a 
decision on a complaint brought only by Ms K. 
The situation between Ms K and the other borrower is highly sensitive, and theres no 
prospect of him joining the complaint. Any discussions Whistletree may have had with him 
are totally confidential; its discussions with Ms K similarly so. That means Im limited to 
considering how Whistletree has dealt with Ms K and nothing else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Wed expect a lender to consider offering help to consumers going through financial 
difficulties, especially where theres a way of getting the mortgage back on a sustainable 
footing  either because the consumers circumstances improve, or because changing the 
mortgage in some way would resolve the problem. The dilemma here is that Ms Ks 
difficulties have been, and are, anything but temporary. The pressure on Ms K must be 
immense, of that I am in no doubt. But its difficult to see that there are currently any options 
likely to get things back on track other than selling the property. 
Ultimately a property is worth what someone is willing to pay for it at any given time. At the 
time Whistletree proposed the change of agent, Ms Ks property had already been on the 
market for about a year with only two interested parties and no firm offers. In that context 
alone, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair of Whistletree to propose a course of action 
that might require Ms K to contemplate a drop in the asking price.
Another year has gone by since then, and as I understand it, the property remains unsold. 
However, there are new circumstances in play as a result of the unprecedented effects of 
the worldwide pandemic, and lenders have been given fresh guidance by the regulator on 
how to respond fairly to the current situations their borrowers present them with. 
Lenders now cannot take repossession action, or further action, before 31 October 2020. So 
this gives Ms K some time to consider her options and see if a way forward can be found. I 
would urge her to keep in contact with Whistletree  and I would remind Whistletree it has an 
ongoing obligation to treat her fairly.
My decision here has not considered what is happening now; it has only considered what 
happened up to July 2019 when Whistletree issued its final response referring Ms K to us. It 
doesnt preclude Ms K from bringing another complaint in future about how shes been 
treated more recently.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree. My final decision concludes 
this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman