DRN-2188174
The complaint
Mr L complains about issues hes experienced when changing his address with Capital One 
(Europe) plc.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr L phoned Capital One to change his address. He said that he changed his 
address on the app back in February 2019 but it hadnt updated. Capital One said they 
couldnt see any record of Mr L changing his address. They apologised for any 
inconvenience, and Mr Ls address was changed during that telephone call.
Mr L also had trouble with his address when using the Credit Wise service that Capital One 
provides. Capital One couldnt explain the problem and suggested an option of deleting his 
account and starting again to try and fix the issue, or to contact the credit reference agency if 
there were any errors on his credit file.
Capital One looked into what had happened. They explained there was no record of Mr L 
changing his address in February 2019. They also explained the address in the Credit Wise 
app came from information held by the credit reference agency so he should go there if he 
thought something was incorrect. 
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. She said she hadnt seen any evidence that Capital One 
acted unreasonably. There was no record of an attempt to change Mr Ls address in 
February 2019. She also thought the suggestions from Capital One about how to fix the 
Credit Wise problem were reasonable. Mr L disagreed so the complaint has come to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has provided a lot of information about his complaint and why hes unhappy with what 
happened. I want to reassure Mr L that Ive read and considered everything hes provided, 
even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive condensed all of the information into a brief summary 
which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Its clear Mr L is very frustrated by what happened, and his strength of feeling is obvious to 
me. However Ive looked at all of the information provided and am happy that Capital One 
acted fairly and reasonably; Ill explain why.
Capital One has no record of Mr L changing, or attempting to change, his address in 
February 2019. Mr L says he did this, and I have no doubt he feels this way, but Capital One 
has no evidence the change of address was attempted. I dont doubt Mr Ls recollection of 
events, however I cant say that Capital One made any errors as theres no evidence on their 
systems of a request to change the address. 
Mr L spoke with Capital One in July 2019 and his address was changed over the telephone. 
Capital One didnt record this as a complaint as Mr L seemed satisfied at the time when his 
address had been changed and they had apologised for any problems. Later Mr L said 
Capital One shouldve registered the problem as a complaint, but Ive not heard anything in 
the telephone call, or seen anything in the notes from the call, to show that Mr L wanted the 
issue taken further. Mr L was certainly unhappy at the start of the call as his statements had 
been going to an old address, but the matter was fixed. So Im happy Capital One acted 
fairly when not recording the change of address issue as a complaint.
Mr L has problems using the Credit Wise app as his address information isnt showing 
correctly. Credit Wise is a service offered by Capital One but isnt linked to any information 
they hold about customers. Capital One explained the data, including addresses, are taken 
from information held by a credit reference agency. If he thought there were errors with that 
information he should contact the credit reference agency. Or, another option was to delete 
his Credit Wise account and start a new one inputting his current address. Mr L is unhappy 
with either of these options. 
As Capital One explained they dont create the data used in the app, its taken from 
information held by a credit reference agency. I cant say why Mr Ls address isnt showing 
correctly, but whatever the problem is Ive seen no evidence that its an error made by 
Capital One. Credit Wise takes data from elsewhere and matches it with what is input into 
the app, so it could be there is a discrepancy in the formatting of the address leading to 
problems. Either way Capital One has offered Mr L reasonable options about how to fix the 
problem. I do acknowledge both options would put Mr L to some inconvenience, but Im 
satisfied the problem isnt caused by Capital One who dont create the data in the Credit 
Wise app. 
When trying to sort out the problem Capital One sent Mr L a letter referring to him as Mrs L. 
Capital One have apologised for this and assured Mr L that all the data they hold for him is 
correct. They couldnt explain how it happened, but Im happy that the apology is sufficient 
for the upset caused. 
Having looked at everything that happened, and considered everything Mr L has said, Im 
satisfied Capital One has acted fairly and reasonably. Thats not to say Mr L hasnt 
experienced issues; he has, but Ive seen no evidence of any errors made by Capital One.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman