DRN-3431674
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the settlement offered by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
following a claim on her car insurance.
Mrs Ws husband, Mr W  a named driver on the policy, has brought the complaint on Mrs 
Ws behalf. However for ease of reading, all references to Mrs W include the actions of her 
husband. 
What happened
Mrs W had car insurance with Advantage. In December 2021 she was involved in an 
accident that resulted in the car being written off. She made a claim on the insurance. 
Advantage took some time to settle the claim. When it did it offered a settlement of 
£5,525.24 as it said this was the market value of the car.
Mrs W was unhappy with this and how her claim had been handled. She said the settlement 
offered wasnt enough to buy a like for like replacement. She also thought Advantage had 
taken too long reaching a settlement and said shed been entitled to a courtesy car under the 
policy but this hadnt been provided, which she didnt think was fair. She made a complaint.
Advantage upheld her complaint. It agreed it had caused unnecessary delays and offered a 
total of £200 compensation to make up for this. It also reconsidered the valuation of the car 
and increased the settlement to £5,935. However, said that as the car was a write off, a 
courtesy car wouldnt be provided under the policy, so it was right that this wasnt offered.
Mrs W was unhappy with this resolution. She said the settlement still wasnt an accurate 
reflection of the value of the car. She brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
Advantage had based their valuation on two trade guides, when we usually consider three. 
And on checking, the third trade guide provided a higher valuation. He also considered 
adverts provided by Mrs W and said he thought the higher of the two guide prices were more 
reliable based on these. So he recommended the valuation of the vehicle would more fairly 
be assessed as £6,245, as this was an average of the two higher trade guides. However he 
thought the compensation Advantage had offered was fair in the circumstances and thought 
it had acted in line with the policy terms by not offering a courtesy car. 
Mrs W accepted our investigators outcome, however Advantage didnt. It said its revised 
valuation was an average of the three trade guides so thought this was a fair settlement. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation
When considering whether a valuation is fair and reasonable, we consider prices provided 
by trade guides. This service considers these to generally be the most reliable for 
calculations as they are based on the amount vehicles have been sold for and take into 
account the specific car make and model, mileage and age. As well as the condition of the 
car. 
Here, Advantage provided valuations of £5,420 and £5,935 from two of the main guides. Our 
investigator provided the valuation of £6,555 from the third guide we use. So based on these 
alone, Advantages revised offer of £5,935 doesnt seem unreasonable.
However Ive also considered adverts provided by Mrs W and from doing my own research. 
In recent times the market for second-hand cars has grown significantly. And, where 
previously we would put little weight on advertised prices as cars would often sell at a price 
under what was advertised. More recently the advertised price has been a true reflection of 
the selling price due to the high demand. 
Having considered a wide range of adverts of cars of a similar mileage and age, Im 
persuaded that the lowest valuation from the trade guides is an outlier. This is because 
nearly all of the adverts display costs between the remaining two trade guides  some even 
higher than these. So when considering all the evidence together, Im persuaded that a fair 
market value of the vehicle is between £5,935 and £6,555. 
Therefore I agree with our investigator that Advantage hasnt based its settlement on a fair 
valuation of Mrs Ws car and it should increase its valuation to £6,245, as this is an average 
of the two remaining trade guides when the lowest is removed.
Courtesy car 
While Mrs Ws policy does include cover for a replacement car while hers is being repaired, 
it states in the terms:
You wont be eligible for a replacement car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a Total 
Loss/write-off.
As Mrs Ws car was declared a total loss, Advantage werent obliged to provide a courtesy 
car under the policy. So I dont think its treated her unfairly by not offering this.
Delays
Advantage has accepted it took longer than it should have to agree a claim settlement. And I 
agree it caused some avoidable delays, particularly as it only revised its valuation once Mrs 
W had made a complaint. However its offered £200 compensation to make up for this poor 
service. And I think this is fair in the circumstances, and in line with what I would have 
directed if it had not made an offer. I therefore wont ask it to do anything more in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to settle her claim based on a valuation of £6,245. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman