DRN-3905650
The complaint
Mr T complains that he couldnt open an account with American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) (Amex).
What happened
Mr T had a credit card from Amex, but he closed it in March 2022. In June 2022, he applied 
for a British Airways premium card. It was declined because Amexs systems said he already 
had a card, and he couldnt have another one. Amex said this was due to a systems error 
and asked him to apply again, but he got the same response when he did. A new card was 
eventually issued in December 2022.
Mr T complained. He said that after the first rejection in June 2022, he tried twice more after 
he got confirmation from Amex that all would be OK, but he was again rejected. Because of 
the delay, he couldnt earn loyalty points, which in turn would count towards a BA reward 
voucher. His wife referred him  so she lost out on 9,000 loyalty points for doing so. He was 
concerned that his credit file was affected because of the applications. And he had spent 14 
hours on the phone or on online chats with Amex  this was time consuming and stressful.
In September 2022, Amex apologised for the rejection of Mr Ts application, which was due 
to an internal IT error. They said that if he applied for a card again, this would go through 
without a problem. Amex said Mr Ts credit file wasnt affected  as nothing had been 
reported to the credit reference agencies. They offered a credit of 10,000 loyalty points.
After Amexs response, Mr Ts application was rejected twice more, and he brought his 
complaint to us. During our investigation, Amex agreed to increase the offer to 30,000 loyalty 
points  as a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator said Mr Ts credit file wasnt affected. He 
said the offer from Amex was a fair one.
Mr T didnt agree, he said more points should be credited to him. He said he had the stress 
of not knowing about his credit file - it took Amex three months to let him know about that. 
He said the BA reward voucher was worth 130,000 Amex loyalty points, and he couldnt earn 
the BA voucher because of the delays. And he said again hed spent 14 hours with Amex to 
resolve matters. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex have admitted that there was a systems issue which stopped Mr T from applying for 
another card. And theyve apologised and offered 30,000 loyalty points as a gesture of 
goodwill for what happened. So  the crux of Mr Ts complaint comes down to whether that 
is reasonable or not.
Amex did confirm to Mr T in September 2022 that his credit file wasnt affected  because 
his application was rejected at the first check  the system rejected it as being a duplicate. 
And I think it is also fair to say that Mr T couldve checked his credit file himself to see if 
Amex had carried out a credit search. So  I dont think Amex needed to do anymore in that 
respect.
Mr T has said his wife couldve earnt 9,000 loyalty points as she referred him. And because 
of the rejections, she didnt. But I noted that his successful application in December 2022 
was referred by a friend  who in turn, got the 9,000 points. So - even though the points 
were earned by a friend, Amex did recognise the referral which was reasonable.
I considered what would be reasonable to settle Mr Ts complaint here. Amex told us the 
cash equivalent of 30,000 points is £495  thats what it would cost Mr T to purchase the 
reward voucher from BA. So  I thought about Mr Ts complaint in the light of this. Our 
service has set out criteria for determining awards of compensation. These are available on 
our website at:  https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-
for-distress-or-inconvenience
These say that where a firms error has caused some inconvenience which has taken a 
reasonable amount of effort to sort out  then an award of up to £300 may be considered, I 
think that what happened here fits this description  which I am comfortable with. Therefore, 
Amexs offer of 30,000 loyalty points is a reasonable one.
Mr T has argued that there is also a further loss  as he couldnt accumulate points towards 
a BA reward voucher. He says he wouldve spent money on his card which wouldve 
enabled this. I consider that to be a consequential loss  and one which is too far removed 
from what happened. I think the compensation of loyalty points is in line with what is 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. (continued)
My final decision
Amex has already made an offer to credit Mr Ts account with 30,000 loyalty points to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) should pay 
30,000 loyalty points.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman