DRN-3682868
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about Sainsbury's Bank Plc.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R made a balance transfer in April 2022. He says the fees and charges werent 
transparent and he had previous balance transfers at 0% interest but was charged 
£27 plus interest on his April transfer. I note Mr Rs comments, but I think it would be 
reasonable that he would have checked the costs involved in the balance transfer 
before going ahead. Sainsburys Bank will on occasions offer promotional rates to 
customers and it will inform them of these. I have nothing to suggest that Mr R had a 
promotional rate available when he undertook the balance transfer in April 2022.
As there was no promotional rate for balance transfers in place, Mr Rs transfer was 
charged the standard fee and the standard interest rate. This is in line with the 
account terms and conditions and so I cannot say that Sainsburys Bank did anything 
wrong by applying the standard rates. 
Mr R says that the charges werent transparent, but his monthly statement showed 
the interest rate applicable for balance transfer on the first page. On the second page 
it says that balance transfer fees are dependent on the offer and to call to find out the 
amount. While I note Mr Rs comments about the availability of the information, as 
set out above, I think it reasonable that Mr R would check the costs involved before 
making a transfer. His statement included the interest charge and information about 
how to find out the transfer fee and I find this reasonable.
As a gesture of goodwill, Sainsburys Bank offered to refund Mr R the balance 
transfer fee incurred once the funds had been returned to his credit card and Mr R 
contacted it to let it know. 
Sainsburys Bank has explained that received a payment into the account for £930 
the day after it sent the offer to refund the fee in its Final Response. It said there was 
a delay in the fee being refunded due to Mr R not contacting it as had been asked so 
the account wasnt reviewed to see if the funds had been returned. In this case, I do 
not find that Sainsburys Bank was required to refund the balance transfer fee but as 
this was offered as a gesture of goodwill find it fair this happened. I note there was a 
delay, but this was due to Mr R not contacting Sainsburys Bank as requested and as 
he was then refunded the balance transfer fee, I find he had been treated fairly in this 
case.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Sainsbury's Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman