DRN-2941328
The complaint
 Miss R complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited failed to compensate her properly 
following the rejection of a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
It is not disputed that the car was faulty and MotoNovo has agreed that it can be rejected. 
For completeness I would add that I agree with that decision. The only issue left open is the 
level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Miss R. MotoNovo has 
agreed with the other elements of the redress as suggested by our investigator.
I appreciate MotoNovos view that much of the delay in dealing with the matter was due to 
Miss R representative refusing another independent inspection. However, I can see why she 
took that approach. Nevertheless, the compensation is not simply linked to delay. 
Miss R had every reason to expect she had acquired a car which would work and this is not 
what she got. The car was some five years old and had only covered some 40,000 miles. It 
seems that the dealer was aware of the issues it suffered from and the repair it effected 
before collection was not satisfactory. It would have been better of the dealer had 
recognised the issues were more serious than it seemed to and had not sold the car until, it 
was satisfied it was of an acceptable quality.
However, it went ahead with the sale and left Miss R without a satisfactory car. While there 
has been some disagreement amongst the experts it is clear there was an issue and to give 
credit to MotoNovo it has agreed to rejection. However, looking at matters in the round I 
agree that compensation for distress and inconvenience of £250 in total is fair. 
Putting things right
MotoNovo should compensate Miss R as set out below.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
reimburse Miss R 8% simple interest per year on her deposit and monthly payments 
from the date they were paid, until the date they were refunded;
pay Miss R a further £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused;
reimburse the remaining £44 for the road tax;
remove any adverse information reporting on Miss Rs credit file in relation to this 
agreement if applicable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman