DRN-4368341
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr G complains that, because of its delays during the transfer process, 
WPS Advisory Ltd (WPS) didnt manage to complete the transfer of the late Mr Gs 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits before he unfortunately passed away. It 
would like to be paid the remainder of the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) figure - 
after the tax free cash (TFC) payment. 
What happened
The late Mr G belonged to a defined benefit OPS from June 1997 but decided he would take 
voluntary redundancy from his employer with effect from July 2020. The OPS noted he 
would receive an annual scheme pension of £14,539 from 20 July 2020, but it also noted 
that the CETV of his benefits was £437,026. This figure was guaranteed  initially - until 
20 October 2020. Mr G also received a redundancy payment which he used to pay off 
outstanding finance and bills and to provide sufficient income until he could receive his full 
pension income. 
Because WPS had a relationship to advise the OPS members it contacted Mr G to ask if he 
wanted to discuss matters. He then arranged a telephone appointment with WPS to discuss 
his options. It explained that he could either take his benefits from the scheme, transfer them 
to a drawdown plan or transfer to another personal pension and take a higher tax free cash 
sum and annuity from that plan. It was established that Mr G wanted to transfer his pension 
and draw an income as he was concerned  because of his health, that his family wouldnt 
benefit from the scheme in the event of his premature death. 
Mr G decided to take his TFC and then receive a single life, fixed, enhanced annuity from a 
new provider. The annuity was guaranteed to be paid for 25 years. 
Because of other factors that were happening within the scheme at this time the deadline for 
the expiry of the CETV was extended to 31 December 2020. 
Mr G continued to chase the progress of his transfer and returned what he thought was the 
outstanding paperwork on 10 December. This was confirmed by WPS on 22 December 2020 
when Mr G was informed his documentation would be passed to the OPS trustees. 
However, the transfer still hadnt been completed before Mr G sadly passed away in 
February 2021. The new receiving pension provider then confirmed that it wouldnt be able 
to accept the funds as a transfer  and if received it would be required to send them back. 
 
Mr Gs beneficiaries, as part of dealing with his estate, contacted the OPS trustees to find 
out what benefits would be paid. After some discussions the trustees said it would honour 
the amount of TFC (around £109,000) that the late Mr G was due to receive if he had 
transferred, but it said it would also have to pay the statutory spouses pension as Mr G was 
legally still married at the time. 
The beneficiaries didnt agree with this but during the process of questioning the outcome 
came to learn that WPS may have been culpable for delays which prevented the transfer 
being completed before Mr G passed away. So they complained to WPS. 
Initially WPS said it had sent all the required paperwork to the scheme trustees and the new 
pension provider in January 2021  and that the expiry deadline for the CETV had been 
extended to the end of March 2021. But the provider and trustees provided contradictory 
information so, as WPS hadnt provided a final response, the beneficiaries brought the 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into matter and thought the complaint should be upheld. He 
made the following points to support his assessment:
This advice was given during a chaotic time for the financial service industry. And 
there were other parties involved in this transfer with their own individual service 
standards.
WPS said that the process should take around four and a half months to fully 
complete in normal circumstances. The new pension provider confirmed that it would 
usually request funds from the scheme in around 10-12 working days and would 
usually make the payment between 3 and 12 working days after.
But WPS didnt pass the transfer discharge documents to the OPS until late 
January 2021 and couldnt prove it submitted the annuity application to the provider 
at all. 
So he didnt believe WPS had acted within a reasonable timeframe and thought the 
beneficiaries had missed out on the potential for 25 years worth of income.
He thought the beneficiaries had ultimately received the TFC that it ought to have 
done through the actions of the OPS. But he thought WPS needed to calculate the 
value of the annuity the beneficiaries would have received over 25 years after Mr Gs 
death and compare against the capital benefits that the late Mr Gs spouse will 
receive. If there is a loss it should be paid to the beneficiaries.  
WPS didnt agree with the outcome. It questioned whether the timescales quoted by the new 
pension provider were for defined benefit or defined contribution transfers as it thought this 
transfer would usually take around two months based on the OPS turnaround times at that 
stage. It said that of the cases it submitted on 22 January 2022 the quickest transfer to 
complete was around 10 weeks later. 
So it thought that, as the investigator had concluded that Mr G passed away around halfway 
through the timeframe he had put together, this would mean that WPS could only be 50% 
responsible at worst and should only have to pay redress accordingly. 
The investigator made a number of points in response to WPS queries:
This complaint was only against WPS, so although hed asked the other parties 
involved in the transfer for a timeline of events this was simply to establish what he 
thought was reasonable. Hed used the starting point as 22 December 2020 when 
WPS said it was going to send off the necessary documentation. 
Because this didnt happen, he didnt think it was reasonable to look any further into 
what the other parties could have done. Indeed the annuity application wasnt even 
sent to the new provider even though WPS said it was going to send it off shortly 
after its email of 22 December 2020. 
He hadnt considered the possibility of a 50% liability or responsibility here because it 
was solely WPS that didnt send the forms to the relevant parties in December 2020.
Had Mr G not passed away when he did, it's very likely WPSA would have been able 
to process his application later on. But to consider that outcome WPSA would have needed to have shown that it followed its own processes in terms of sending off 
paperwork  which it wasnt able to do here. 
Although hed set out a window of opportunity for the annuity to be put in place this 
wasnt in expectation that any pension payments would be made. This simply 
reflected that if WPS had sent off the documents when it said it would he thought 
there was sufficient time for the annuity to have been in place  even if no payment 
was made  before Mr Gs unfortunate passing. 
WPS said that even if it sent the relevant forms off on 23 December 2020 it had provided 
evidence of other transfers from the same scheme taking at least ten weeks  and therefore 
well after the date of Mr Gs death. It thought that even if it had acted according to the 
investigators suggestions the annuity would still not have been set up in time. It asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman  including their possible consideration of the 
50% redress liability. So the complaint was passed to me to review.
Ive been made aware that the late Mr Gs spouse has been receiving a monthly payment of 
£550.13 from the OPS since 1 November 2021.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld. I made the following points 
in support of my findings.
I started by looking at the situation after 2 December 2020. I found that WPS had 
sent Mr G a suitability report on 2 December and Mr G accepted its recommendation 
and signed an application form on 7 December 2020. WPS said it would send the 
application to the annuity provider on 22 December 2020, but it didnt appear to do 
so. I said that if WPS had sent the application when it said it would the transfer would 
have competed by mid-February to early March 2020, but that wouldnt have made it 
clear that the annuity would have been set up before Mr G died. I couldnt conclude 
that this delay  of around a month  meant Mr Gs annuity would definitely have 
been set up before 25 February 2020.
So I then looked at what happened before December 2020 or more precisely before 
Mr G returned the relevant documentation to WPS. I noted that Mr G first approached 
WPS about the transfer and had an initial meeting in July 2020, and WPS indicated 
that the transfer ought to be completed within four and a half months. So I wanted to 
see what had led to the delay in Mr G not having the necessary forms to return for 
around five months after the first meeting.
I set out a timeline of events from July 2020 and I thought WPS had simply taken too 
long to get to the stage of issuing its suitability report in December 2020. I didnt think 
it had provided a robust explanation for why things took so long  albeit I accepted 
that WPS had its own process here which involved six separate stages. In particular I 
hadnt been presented with any reason why the suitability report couldnt have been 
issued shortly after the second transfer analysis comparison report (TVAS) of 
October 2020. 
I thought WPS could in fact have considerably reduced the time taken to get to the 
suitability report stage. When I included the one month delay I thought WPS had 
caused after December 2020, I took the view that it was reasonable to conclude that 
WPS ought to have been able to set up the annuity  even if the first payment 
couldnt be made - before Mr Gs unfortunate passing.
So I said that WPS should carry out a calculation to determine the amount of 
financial loss the late Mr Gs beneficiaries had suffered. I didnt think they had 
suffered a loss relating to the TFC, or for any payments that might have been paid 
before Mr Gs death. But I thought they would suffer a future loss from not receiving annuity payments for the 25 year duration of the plan  although I said the calculation 
should offset the payments that the late Mr Gs spouse has and would continue to 
receive from the scheme pension over the same term.
Initially WPS didnt agree with the provisional decision and set out its reasons  which were 
principally related to the exceptional circumstances it said it was working under during the 
global pandemic. It said:
The administration team responsible for issuing advice reports was usually office 
based but was impacted by staff illnesses and office closures because of deep 
cleaning procedures. There were two of those such events during the process of 
compiling Mr Gs report, each leading to office closures of around of two weeks. (so 
four weeks in total). 
The team had to adapt to working from home during this time, which also contributed 
to the delays.
It had compared Mr Gs transfer with others around the same time and didnt 
consider his was unreasonably long in comparison.
Without the issues around office closures and working from home, it thought the 
advice aspect of this process could have completed within three months or less. 
It didnt believe there was another firm who could have completed the transfer any 
quicker in the circumstances  especially as it had the advantage of knowing the 
scheme and working closely with its administrators.
Our website did suggest that we would take into account the impact of the global 
pandemic when considering complaints. It would welcome our view on this matter 
both for this complaint and as a wider issue. 
However, WPS subsequently said it had reviewed and reconsidered its position and decided 
that it would like to make an offer to the beneficiaries along the following lines. 
1. Obtain a fixed-term (for 25 years) annuity quote to establish the cost of 25 years of 
income at £14331.12pa.
2. Obtain a lifetime annuity quote based on the net income Mr Gs widow is receiving to
determine the cost of this income.
3. Make a payment to Mr Gs family of the difference between these two figures.
It confirmed how it proposed to obtain the information required to carry out the calculation 
and also what information it would need from the scheme administrators. It then clarified that 
it would capitalise the final figures in order to obtain a final figure that it should pay.
Having clarified that the offer was broadly in line with that set out in the provisional decision, 
we put it to the beneficiaries. But, while they agreed with my provisional decision overall, the 
beneficiaries didnt accept the terms of WPS offer and wanted us to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I have 
considered WPS comments, particularly with regards to the effect of the global pandemic on 
its working practices and service and Ive included my comments on that issue below. But 
ultimately I think that WPS should have been able to complete its part of the advice process so that the annuity, more likely than not, was in place before Mr G died. Ill therefore set out 
my reasons below.
Our investigator reached the conclusion that if WPS had sent off the application forms that 
Mr G had returned on 7 December 2020 when it told him it was going to, then it was likely 
the annuity would have been set up before Mr Gs death. So I began by looking at the 
situation that did occur just before and after 7 December 2020.
Post 2 December 2020 
WPS suitability report of 2 December 2020 set out a clear recommendation for Mr G to 
transfer his OPS benefits and purchase an annuity. Mr G accepted the recommendation and 
returned his acceptance and completed application forms on 7 December which WPS 
acknowledged receipt of on 22 December 2020. It said we have checked the documentation 
and can confirm that everything is in order. If any additional information is required, we will 
contact you as soon as any need is identified. we will now send your application to the 
receiving scheme. It also said that it would submit the other documents required by the 
scheme after the 14 day cooling off period and expected completion of the transfer in around 
six to eight weeks. 
I think that was a clear indication of the path forward from WPS, and even clearer that it 
would send the application form at that time, which would lead  by its own estimate - to a 
completion of around mid-February to early March 2021. I dont think its possible therefore 
to reasonably conclude that Mr Gs annuity would definitely have been set up by 
25 February 2021 when he sadly died. Its possible this may have happened, but I cant 
discount the fact that it may not have been completed, probably by around two to three 
weeks using WPS own estimates. Im also mindful that WPS provided evidence to show that 
other similar transfers took no less than 10 weeks to complete.
But the most important point here is that WPS didnt submit the application form or other 
documents when it said it was going to. Evidence would suggest the paperwork required by 
the scheme trustees wasnt sent until January 2021 and the application form to the provider 
wasnt sent at all. So while I cant definitively say that Mr Gs annuity should have been in 
place before his death as a result of this delay, I can put reasonable weight on WPS own 
estimates of when the transfer ought to have competed if it had sent the forms when it said it 
would. I think its reasonable to conclude that if the annuity hadnt been in place before his 
death, it should have been no later than three weeks afterwards.
So in order to look at the fuller picture of whether WPS caused delays which might have led 
to the annuity being in place much earlier, Ive gone on to consider what happened prior to 
2 December 2020.
Pre 2 December 2020
Mr G initially approached WPS in July 2020 and a first telephone information gathering 
interview took place on 23 July 2020. 
At this point WPS indicated an overall transfer completion time of around four and a half 
months. 
As WPS was the designated adviser for the scheme it would have been aware of the various 
deadlines that were in place regarding individual CETVs. In addition, it would have had a 
working knowledge of any additional requirements the scheme would be likely to ask for and 
a good idea of the current timescales. Of course, I am mindful of the effect that the global 
pandemic would have had on all these timescales  which Ill return to later. In my provisional decision I set out a timeline of events, based on the evidence Id been 
presented with  following the July 2020 meeting. Ill set this out again below.
2 September 2020  the new pension provider confirmed that enhanced annuity 
terms were available and provided a personal illustration guaranteed for 14 days. 
10 September 2020  Mr G asked WPS if there had been any progress with his 
transfer as hed returned the annuity information two weeks previously.
22 September 2020  Mr G had a telephone discussion with WPS during which an 
adviser said should be completed mid-November I wouldnt expect it to go past 
December. (The OPS) are working on a six week turnaround so its going be about 
10 weeks.
14 October 2020 WPS said its recommendation report was in the process of being 
completed. It confirmed that we will ensure that you have sufficient time to receive 
the report and relevant documentation and return this before the revised guarantee 
date of 30 November.
4 November 2020  WPS said it was aware of the deadline of 30 November 2020 
and was aiming to provide a recommendation report two weeks in advance of that 
date.
30 November 2020  Mr G requested an update from WPS stating I am getting 
really concerned at the lack of movement and the fact that the report was "in the 
process of being completed" on Oct 14th, but I have yet to receive anything? I have 
been informed that (the OPS) have put a FINAL extension date of 31st December for 
this process to be finalised. As I mentioned in my last email, it is now becoming 
financially difficult over this period, and I'd have expected this process to be further 
forward after nearly 4 months. 
WPS had a six step process when undertaking a transfer and we wouldnt usually comment 
on a firms normal everyday processes and systems. So while I understand the need to work 
through each stage of its process, Ive used the timeline to decide if I think some of the time 
it took to complete certain tasks was excessive and could be seen to have caused avoidable 
delays. Ive also taken into account that WPS own initial estimates of the time the whole 
process should take was four and a half months, and I havent seen any evidence to show 
that it revised this estimate. I think Mr G was, to some degree, entitled to rely on this 
information so I would expect to see a robust explanation from WPS for why it took five 
months from when it first spoke to him until it produced its recommendation through a 
suitability report.
But I havent been presented with any evidence to explain such a long delay or to provide a 
robust justification for why things took so long in the case of Mr Gs transfer. Im mindful that 
WPS had to liaise with other parties here, but the annuity provider issued its enhanced 
annuity illustration in early September 2020 and TVAS reports were produced on 
12 August and 6 October 2020. So its not clear to me, nor have I seen a satisfactory 
explanation for why WPS couldnt have compiled the suitability report soon after the later 
date  which was almost two months before it did finalise it.
I think WPS could have shortened the time it took to provide its suitability report considerably 
and it hasnt provided any evidence to counter that claim. 
And when I consider that it expected the whole process to be completed in around four and 
a half months I think that WPS caused delays which, if they had been avoided, would have 
meant that the late Mr Gs annuity would otherwise have been set up well in advance of his 
unexpected passing.I wasnt able to conclude that the late Mr Gs annuity would definitely have been set up 
before his death as result of the delays after December 2020, by a matter of around two to 
three weeks. But if I also include the delays that I think occurred prior to 2 December 2020, 
particularly the two months from the date the second TVAS was completed until the 
suitability report was issued, I think its reasonable to say that, more likely than not, the 
annuity would have been purchased and in force before Mr Gs death  even if payments 
hadnt been paid by that time.
The effects of the global pandemic
Before it made an offer to settle the complaint WPS had suggested that many of its problems 
had been caused by the restrictions and change in working practices cause by the global 
pandemic. It cited office closures caused by deep cleans, and the problems of staff working 
from home as justifiable reasons for gaps in its service and taking longer to complete 
certain tasks  such as compiling reports.
And WPS is right to point out that our website does state that we will take the effects of the 
global pandemic into account when making our decisions  which Im satisfied both I and the 
investigator did in this case. Im mindful of the difficulties firms faced during these times and 
how they may have affected their ability to provide existing levels of service including their 
timeliness. But in this case what I would have expected to see was some degree of 
mitigation, explanation of the issues, and efforts to manage Mr Gs expectations of the 
situation - specifically with reference to the effects of the pandemic. But I havent seen any 
update or communication from WPS where this was signposted to Mr G. I note each 
response from WPS during September, October, and November 2020, when it would have 
been fully aware of the effect of the pandemic on its service, simply confirmed that it 
expected to provide the report well before the deadline.
Im mindful that WPS has demonstrated that the closure of its offices occurred shortly after it 
confirmed that expectation, and I understand this may have caused some problems. But 
WPS said its staff were working from home during this time, so I would have expected them 
to have updated Mr G with this information, revising his expectations and setting out any 
contingency plans. In the absence of any such communication I think Mr G was entitled to 
expect WPS to work to the timescales it had given him. 
But in any case I said previously that I hadnt been provided with a robust explanation for 
why the report couldnt have been completed soon after the second TVAS from 
6 October 2020 was issued. Even allowing for the specific issues of the office closures 
during November 2020, I still think the report should have been compiled before that event.  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said that I didnt think the beneficiaries had suffered a past loss 
because I didnt think Mr G would have received any annuity payment before his death. And 
its generally accepted here that no loss of TFC was suffered because the scheme paid the 
full amount to the beneficiaries as a gesture of goodwill. 
So to put things right WPS needs to carry out a calculation to work out the future loss the 
beneficiaries will suffer.
But because Mrs G is receiving payments from the scheme directly I have to take into
account that some payments will be (and have already been) made in consideration of
Mr Gs death. I dont have any powers to stop those payments being made and indeed to do
so would almost certainly lead to unauthorised payments being made with the tax
implications that would bring. And the beneficiaries have confirmed that they have no issueswith payments being made to Mrs G.
Im not able to give any indication of how much the redress will be reduced following the
comparison with the payments to Mrs G from the scheme  which will of course be
increased each year in line with the scheme rules. So what Ive set out below is, in my view,
the fairest way to ensure the redress is calculated in a way that means the beneficiaries and
Mrs G arent overcompensated by taking into account the payments that are already being
made.
WPS should compare the value of the benefits that would have been in place with the
benefits that are instead being paid to Mrs G.
So, to compensate the beneficiaries fairly WPS should calculate the total capital value of the 
late Mr Gs lost annuity over 25 years  that is, the amount required to buy that net annuity - 
and obtain a calculation to establish the capital value of the benefits that Mrs G receives  
again, the amount required to buy that net pension income. If the value of the late Mr Gs 
missing annuity is greater than the capital value of the benefits being received, then the 
beneficiaries have suffered a loss, and should be compensated for that difference.
WPS should in that instance pay a quarter share of the loss to each of the beneficiaries who
have brought this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold the beneficiaries complaint against WPS Advisory 
Ltd. 
WPS Advisory Ltd should pay any compensation amount calculated as set out above and 
the calculations should be provided to the beneficiaries in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G, Mr G, 
Miss G and Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman