DRN-1441496
The complaint
Ms P complains that My Policy Ltd cancelled her motor insurance policy and retained her 
deposit. She said this caused to her lose her car and her job.
What happened
Ms P took out a policy with My Policy online through a comparison site. My Policy told her 
that it needed to validate the policy. It needed Ms P to verbally confirm the policy details and 
it needed a copy of her photocard driving licence and the Counterpart code from the DVLA 
website. Ms P wasnt able to complete these latter steps in time and so the policy was 
cancelled. My Policy retained the deposit to cover its administration costs and the insurers 
charge for time on cover. It waived the balance outstanding. 
Ms P thought this was unfair as she said My Policy had kept her on hold and so she hadnt 
been able to complete the validation requirements in time. She said that she lost her car as a 
result and because she had no transport, she said she lost her job. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought My Policy 
were clear about what was needed to validate the policy and gave Ms P enough notice to 
provide this. But he thought Ms P had been confused about what she needed to provide for 
the DVLA component. He thought that if My Policy had explained this at the time then Ms P 
could have completed the validation and the policy wouldnt have cancelled. Instead, the 
agent put Ms P on hold whilst she asked if an extension could be provided. This didnt leave 
enough time for the process to be completed. So he thought the way the call was handled 
led to the cancellation. 
The investigator recommended that My Policy should change how the policy cancellation 
was recorded to say that Ms P had cancelled it. He thought it should refund Ms Ps deposit, 
less the insurers charge for her time on cover. And he thought it should pay Ms P £50 
compensation for her trouble and upset. Ms P didnt provide any evidence to support her 
other losses, so he didnt recommend any redress for these.
My Policy replied that the agent had told Ms P what was needed. It said that Ms Ps abusive 
and inappropriate conduct during the calls caused the deadline to be missed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear that Ms P was abusive towards My Policys staff when she wasnt able to 
validate her policy as she expected to. I can understand that My Policy wouldnt want to 
tolerate this or continue its relationship with her. But its not my role to punish Ms P. 
What Ive considered is whether My Policy made it clear to Ms P what was required for 
validation, whether it gave her enough time to provide this and whether it made any errors 
that stopped the process being completed. 
Ive looked at My Policys correspondence with Ms P. When the policy was set up, Ms P was 
told that she needed to do three things: have a telematics box installed in her car, verbally 
verify the policy details and provide specific documents to My Policy. She was given 14 days 
in which to do this otherwise the policy would cancel. My Policy sent Ms P several email 
reminders during this time. Ms P had the telematics box installed.
In its cancellation notice letter, giving seven days notice, I think My Policy sets out very 
clearly what documents it required: photos of Ms Ps driving licence and the Counterpart 
code from the DVLA website. I think clear instructions are given on how to obtain the code. 
The letter was posted and emailed to Ms P. My Policy said Ms P called it after she received 
the emailed letter. So I think she was made reasonably aware of what was required and 
given sufficient time to provide this. 
During this call, Ms P didnt complete the verification process as the call cut off. 
On the last day of the cancellation notice period, Ms P called My Policy three times to try and 
complete the remaining two steps. Ive listened to these calls. In the first call, made in the 
morning, the call cut off before verification could be completed. 
In the second call, made shortly afterwards, the line kept breaking up. The agent asked Ms P 
to call back on a landline, but she continued with the call. The agent said he couldnt 
continue with the call and Ms P became abusive towards him. The call was ended.
Ms P then called again with less than an hour of the notice period remaining. This was still 
within the notice period so, even though I think she was taking things to the wire, I cant say 
that Ms P should be penalised for this.
The verification was then completed. But Ms P had still to provide photos of her licence and 
the DVLA Counterpart code. Ms P said she could do this at the time. She also said she 
didnt have the paper part of the licence and the agent said this was OK. The agent then said 
she would look to see if an extension could be provided for Ms P to provide the documents. 
The agent came back to say an extension couldnt be provided. Ms P then said she didnt 
have her paper documents with her. Ms P then became abusive towards the agent. She said 
she wanted to make a complaint. Ms P said shed had to take time out of work to make 
multiple calls and My Policy hadnt been helpful. Ms P said she didnt understand what 
paperwork was required. A manager then told her that the policy would be cancelled, and 
abusive behaviour wouldnt be tolerated.
So I think all was going well with the validation until the agent offered to see if an extension 
could be provided. There was then a 10-minute hold whilst the agent discussed this with a 
manager. It was after this point that Ms P became abusive.  
I think Ms P had given My Policy clues that she didnt understand what documents were 
required. I think the agent missed a chance to clarify this with her. If she had done so, I think 
Ms P still had time to send photos of her driving licence photocard and obtain the DVLA 
counterpart code. And so the validation would most likely have been completed successfully 
and the policy continued. Instead, the agent put Ms P on hold, albeit with good intentions. 
And so I think My Policys call handling led to the policy being cancelled.
My Policy says that it wont tolerate abusive behaviour and I agree that My Policy doesnt 
have to do this. But My Policy had allowed Ms P to continue with the validation after her 
abusive comments in the second call. So I think it had reasonably given her another chance 
to get the validation completed. It was only when Ms Ps frustration boiled over after the unnecessary time on hold that Ms P became abusive. I think this could have been avoided if 
the agent had responded to Ms Ps confusion about the validation requirements. 
Ms P has explained that this cancellation has had consequences for her car ownership and 
employment. But she hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show this. So I cant 
consider these losses further.
Putting things right
When a business makes mistakes, as I think My Policy has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position. I think My Policy should do the following:
1. Record on any internal and external databases that Ms P cancelled the policy so that the 
cancellation wont affect her future cover.
2. As the policy was cancelled due to its error, My Policy should refund Ms Ps deposit, less 
the insurers charge for her time on cover. 
3. Pay Ms P £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
cancellation.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require My 
Policy Ltd to carry out the redress Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman