DRN-4309970
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have not amended his credit 
file correctly following fraud on his credit card accounts.  
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In summary, Mr H was the victim of fraud on a number of his accounts, including two 
Halifax credit card accounts. He became aware of this in September 2021 and raised it with 
Halifax, who initially declined the claim but a few days later accepted that Mr H was not liable 
and agreed to refund the transactions. They issued a final response letter on 30 October 
2021 in which they said they had requested for the credit file to be updated, but this could 
take up to 60 days.
However, Mr Hs credit file was not correctly amended and some late payments were still 
being reported, as well as settled balances showing the fraudulent amounts taken from his 
accounts and a number of cash withdrawals he did not carry out. A number of these have 
now been amended but some incorrect information still remains on his credit file, almost two 
years later. Mr H says this has affected his credit limits on accounts with both Halifax and 
third-party banks.
Halifax initially offered Mr H £75 compensation because it did not promptly contact him in 
relation to his complaint and this has been paid to him. It then offered an additional £260, 
which Mr H declined. The complaint was passed to our service and our Investigator looked 
into it. It was initially decided that the combined compensation of £335 was fair as they felt 
the credit file had been corrected. However, following further investigation it was found that 
incorrect information remained on Mr Hs credit file a significant period of time after the issue 
was first raised. Because of this, the recommended total compensation was increased to 
£1,000, less the £75 that had already been paid. Halifax accepted the recommendation.
Mr H ultimately disagreed with the outcome as the Investigator had not upheld some key 
points that he felt were important. He said that his credit limit with the third-party bank had 
been reduced because of the incorrect information Halifax applied to his credit file. However, 
the Investigator could not agree this was the sole cause as they didnt have evidence to 
show why the limit had been reduced. Mr H also requested a letter from Halifax exonerating 
him from the fraud as he felt Halifax held him responsible.
As an informal resolution could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Overall, I agree that the recommendation of £1,000 compensation is fair redress in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr H flagged with Halifax that fraud had occurred on his account in September 2021. He 
says that they allowed the fraud to happen due to their security not being good enough and 
that they did not contact him when his address was changed by the fraudster. Ultimately, 
there is no dispute that Mr H was a victim of fraud and the transactions have been refunded 
to him, so I dont think it is useful to go into detail about how the fraud occurred in the first 
place. 
I do think that Halifax could have noticed that there was a change in the account behaviour 
and contacted Mr H prior to September 2021. I say this because there had been no activity 
on the accounts for many years and the balances were then utilised relatively quickly. And 
had Halifax done this, I think it would have minimised the impact the overall situation had on 
Mr H.
Mr H has requested a letter from Halifax exonerating him from the fraud as he feels they 
blame him for it. I appreciate why Mr H would like this; however, I dont feel it is necessary. 
From my experience, if Halifax felt Mr H were to blame for the fraud in any way, they would 
not have agreed to refund the significant value of the transactions, amended his credit file on 
multiple occasions and agreed to award him £1,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience their errors caused him. 
The final response letter dated 30 October 2021 confirmed that the transactions had all been 
refunded. But the credit file could take up to 60 days to be amended. I appreciate Mr Hs 
comments that any changes should only take a few days, however it is not unusual for an 
amendment to a credit file to take at least 30 days to appear. So, I dont think Halifaxs initial 
quote of 60 days to be wholly unreasonable. 
I can see that Mr Hs credit file in February 2022 was still showing late payments on one 
account and both were showing settled balances that reflected the fraud, as well as cash 
withdrawals Mr H did not carry out himself. In April 2022, neither account had late payments 
showing on the credit file, however both still had balances that reflected the fraud and cash 
withdrawals. In December 2022, the balances had been cleared to £0 or were in credit, 
however there were still some payment amounts that reflected the fraud as well as the cash 
withdrawals.
I can therefore see that there are some aspects of Mr Hs credit file that are not as they 
should be, and there should be an accurate reflection of his true account activity, which 
should not contain anything relating to the fraud. However, I also note that Mr H has now 
confirmed his credit score has returned to perfect and the highest score attainable, which 
suggests the factors remaining, namely the incorrect payment amounts and cash 
withdrawals, are not having a detrimental effect on his credit score. These should still be 
removed in any event. 
Considering the significant amount of time it has taken for Mr Hs credit file to be amended, 
and the fact that it is still not as it should be almost two years after Halifax was made aware 
of the fraud, I can understand how this has been frustrating for Mr H. He has had to chase 
Halifax over a significant period of time and it is clear that Mr H values his good credit score 
so this would have been particularly distressing for him. With this in mind, I do think a 
substantial compensation level is due. The recommendation of £1,000 is on the higher end 
of what I think is reasonable, but it is within the range that I think is fair, so I agree with the 
recommendation put forth by the Investigator and agreed by Halifax. 
I appreciate that Mr H does not feel this is enough and has mentioned that £10,000 would be 
more reasonable. However, our services compensation awards are relatively modest and we would very rarely award such a significant amount. Compensation can be subjective and 
what may feel like enough to one person may feel too little to another in the same 
circumstances. I want to assure Mr H I have carefully reviewed his case and having done so, 
I agree that the recommendation of £1,000 is fair.
Mr H would like it to be accepted that his credit limit on a third-party account Ill call T was 
reduced as a direct result of the incorrect information on his credit file applied by Halifax. He 
has said that we should apply the balance of probabilities to reach this conclusion. Id like to 
assure Mr H that we do consider everything available to us when reaching a decision and do 
so based on the balance of probabilities to come to the outcome that is more likely in the 
circumstances. 
A lenders decision to reduce a credit limit is based on a number of factors such as a 
consumers credit file well as internal criteria that is commercially sensitive. While I 
understand that Halifax was reporting incorrect information on Mr Hs credit file, so was 
another organisation that was affected by the same fraudulent act. On balance, I do not have 
enough to show that Halifaxs actions alone are what caused T to reduce Mr Hs credit limit 
on his account as a number of other factors would also have been involved. Im pleased to 
hear that that this was later increased back to its original limit.
Mr H has mentioned a credit limit reduction and closure of his Halifax account, however this 
was raised as a separate complaint with our service, so I have not considered it further as 
part of this decision. 
In summary, I uphold this complaint in part and agree with the recommendation of £1,000 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the issues have caused Mr H. Ive 
considered Mr Hs comments and having done so, I dont direct Halifax to take additional 
action. And the recommendation should be less the £75 already paid, as I have considered 
the compensation for the complaint as a whole. 
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr H £925 compensation to bring the total paid to £1,000 
for this complaint as a whole.
If possible, Bank of Scotland plc should also put Mr Hs credit file back into the position it 
would have been in, had the fraud never happened. So, it should remove the amounts paid 
and the cash withdrawal indicators. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and agree with the recommendation of £1,000 compensation. 
Bank of Scotland plc should also amend Mr Hs credit file where possible to remove the 
amounts paid and cash withdrawal entries. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman