The complaint
Mr Ds unhappy with Domestic & General Insurance Plcs decision to decline his claim made 
under a gadget insurance policy (plan number ending 0915).
All references in this decision to D&G include its administrative agents. 
What happened
Mr D contacted D&G to claim on his policy for the repair of his faulty laptop as he said it was 
running slow. D&G arranged for his laptop to be checked but declined the claim as it could 
find no memory modules in the laptop and no other faults with it.
Mr D was unhappy with D&Gs decision, stating he hadnt removed the memory and to 
complain that the laptop was returned to him with no memory.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They didnt consider that D&G 
had done anything wrong.
As Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, the case was passed to me to review 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr D handed his laptop to D&G for repair. What is in dispute is what 
happened from that point onwards. On the one hand, Mr D says his laptop was running slow 
and that, when he sent it to D&G for inspection, its memory was intact.
On the other hand, Ive seen evidence from the time of the inspection indicating the repairer 
received the laptop without memory modules. They confirmed that they used their own 
memory to test the laptop, in the absence of memory on delivery, and that no further fault 
was found.
To try and shed some more light on what actually happened, our adjudicator contacted Mr D 
for more information about the missing memory but he didnt respond on the issue.  
Overall, Im unable to reach a conclusive finding in this case given the conflicting nature of 
the testimony. That said, I cant fairly say on the available evidence that D&Gs done 
anything wrong or otherwise treated Mr D unfairly.
DRN-1224038My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman