DRN-2055902
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 when she applied for a store card.
What happened
Mrs H complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 2001. It was added to her 
House of Fraser store card account which she applied for in store. She said she was told 
she had to have PPI to get the credit card. She had sick pay and no savings, but her 
husband could help her make repayments, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
produced a copy of Mrs H's store card application. I can see there was a PPI box stating 
Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account Cover This box is signed on Mrs 
Hs application, but I noted she declined other offers on the form - so I think the form was 
diligently completed with the things she wanted and didnt want either by her or on her 
behalf. And as she separately signed the form and the PPI box, I can reasonably assume 
she checked the details were correct. So I think her signature means AXA probably made it 
clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she may not remember this.
Mrs H also said she was pressured to buy PPI, but she did not tell us what exactly was 
said to her that day. Also, I could not see on the store card application that PPI was 
compulsory, so I dont think there is enough evidence here to say Mrs H was pressured to 
buy PPI.
I noted Mrs H was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so AXA had to 
make sure Mrs H received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs H about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong 
because she told us she had no savings and the PPI could have lasted for longer than 
and in addition to her sick pay if she wasnt able to work or had lost her job.
Mrs H said she could rely on her husband to help her make repayments. I do appreciate 
her point but there is no guarantee she could rely on this support at some unknown point 
in the future. So I still think the PPI was useful for her.
AXA should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I 
don't know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs H was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions - I don't think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and Mrs H was 
probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman