DRN-4298502
The complaint
Mr A complains that Cater Allen Limited didnt tell him about a higher interest account he 
could have opened.
What happened
Mr A says Cater Allen didnt tell him that it was offering a similar account to his but with a 
higher interest rate. He says the new account didnt differ materially from his account, with a 
difference of five days in the notice period. Mr A says he has not been treated fairly and 
questions why he should monitor Cater Allen accounts. He would like compensation for his 
inconvenience and interest rate loss.
Cater Allen says it doesnt contact customers directly about new accounts and interest rate 
changes offered in those new accounts. It says it is for a customer to do so. Cater Allen 
maintains the new account was different to Mr As account.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think Mr As account terms and conditions said Cater Allen would contact customers about 
this issue and thought the new interest rate account details were available on its website.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says there is a wider regulatory issue here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision. I make clear to Mr A that we are not 
Cater Allens regulator and so its not our role to decide if, for example, it has breached 
Financial Conduct Authority rules as he suggests has happened.
I have looked at Mr As account terms and conditions which he would have agreed to when 
the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions say that interest rate details will 
be available on Cater Allens website and do not say that it will, for example update 
customers with new higher rate available accounts. So, I cant fairly conclude Cater Allen 
has acted contrary to what it said it would and would not do. It follows that Im satisfied that it 
hasnt made a mistake and that I cant fairly direct it pay Mr A for the interest rate loss or 
compensation. Im satisfied that Cater Allen has not for example told customers it would tell 
them about new higher interest rate accounts but refers customers to monitor interest rates 
on its website.
I appreciate Mr A says the new account was not materially different and I appreciate his 
point. But I am satisfied they are different in that the notice period is different. I appreciate 
that difference is minimal but have made clear its not our role to decide if Cater Allen has 
breached its regulatory duties.
Overall, Im satisfied Cater Allen hasnt misled customers and is entitled to require 
customers to monitor its accounts as well as interest rates in these circumstances. I find this 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman