DRN-1287865
 
The complaint
The business name on this complaint has now changed to AXA France IARD. This is 
because AXA has now taken responsibility for this complaint, To keep things simple, Ill refer 
to AXA as the seller in my decision.
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mrs S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs S took out a PPI policy at the same time she applied for a store card in a store on 17 
August 1996. She completed an application form to have the card. She has since cancelled 
the PPI policy.
Mrs S says she was mis-sold the policy and didn't need it. 
Both parties still do not agree, so as this is the case Mrs S's complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding 
it to her card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mrs S applied for her card and PPI 
but AXA has provided a copy of the application form completed by Mrs S at the time. Mrs Ss 
store card application form had a separate section for PPI that has been ticked in 
acceptance of the insurance. Mrs S has also signed the application in agreement with the 
selections that have been made on it. So I think she would have known she didnt have to 
have the PPI, and she chose to have it. Although given the time thats passed I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had to make 
her repayments. Mrs S told us she can't remember what sick pay she was entitled to and 
this is completely understandable considering the sale was in 1996. But i think the policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ss sick pay, and most likely for longer. So I think she 
would have found the policy useful. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs S's complaint about the PPI policy sold on 17 August 1996, for the 
reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman