DRN-4495150
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S, is unhappy with the service it received from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC which led to the defaulting of its Bounce Back Loan (BBL)
Ss complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr L.
What happened
S had a BBL with Barclays. In June 2022, Mr L updated the address for S with Barclays, but 
this caused Barclays to cancel the direct debit that was set up to make the monthly 
payments for Ss BBL, which in turn caused Ss BBL to fall into arrears. Mr L contacted 
Barclays about this and set up a direct debit to clear the arrears and agreed to keep the 
original direct debit instruction in place to make the scheduled BBL payments moving 
forward. However, the next month, the same thing happened, with Barclays cancelling the 
BBL direct debit so that no payment was applied for and so Ss BBL fell into arrears.
Mr L contacted Barclays again about the missed BBL payment and made a similar 
arrangement as he had previously. But two further monthly BBL payments were missed by S 
because Barclays kept cancelling the direct debit, with the issue being that Barclays werent 
updating the address for S correctly on their systems.
Furthermore, because of the missed BBL payments, Barclays considered the loan to have 
fallen into a position of default. But they sent notices about this to Ss old address  the 
address which Mr L had informed Barclays on several occasions was no longer valid  which 
meant that Mr L didnt receive those notices. And the first time Mr L became aware that 
Barclays had begun proceedings to default Ss BBL was after the BBL was defaulted and 
when S was contacted by the debt recovery agency (DRA) to which Barclays had passed 
S's BBL debt. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Ss behalf.
Barclays responded Ss complaint and noted that theyd spoken with Mr L on several 
occasions and had discussed actions regarding Ss BBL which then werent taken by Mr L. 
This meant that several payments had been missed on Ss BBL, and Barclays didnt feel that 
theyd done anything wrong by then following their arrears recoveries process.
However, Barclays acknowledged that on a few occasions when theyd spoken with Mr L, 
they hadnt given him correct information or hadnt fully explained the potential 
consequences of continuing arrears on Ss BBL. Barclays apologised to Mr L for this and 
offered to make a payment of £125 to S as compensation for any trouble or inconvenience 
Mr L may have incurred in his role as Ss director. Mr L wasnt satisfied with Barclays 
response to Ss complaint, so he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd administered Ss BBL, and they felt the apology and £125 Barclays 
had offered S regarding the service errors already represented a fair resolution to that 
aspect of Ss complaint. Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr L has made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to Barclays on 
behalf of S which hes still waiting for Barclays to fulfil to his satisfaction. And Mr L has asked 
me to consider not issuing a final decision on this complaint until Ss DSAR is fulfilled to his 
satisfaction so that he can fully evidence his position on this complaint. However, upon 
consideration, I dont feel that there is any reasonable need for me to delay issuing a final 
decision in this instance, given the circumstances of this complaint.
The reason Ive reached this conclusion is because, ultimately, S didnt make the monthly 
payments that were contractually required of it as per the BBL agreement, such that the BBL 
fell into arrears. Because of this, Im satisfied that it was fair for Barclays to have followed the 
collections and recoveries process that they did, including the defaulting of the BBL. 
It's important to explain here that Ss contractual obligation to make the monthly payments 
towards the BBL isnt in any way diminished or reduced by any service issues that Mr L 
might have experienced. In short, this means that it was Mr Ls responsibility, as director of 
S, to have ensured that S made the monthly payments towards the BBL that it was 
contractually required to make even if he encountered difficulties making those payments.
Additionally, if it was the case that Mr L experienced unreasonable trouble or inconvenience 
in ensuring that the monthly payments for Ss BBL were made, then this service would look 
to assess whether S should fairly be compensated for that trouble and inconvenience. But as 
explained, I wouldnt consider it fair that S didnt make the monthly BBL payments it was 
contractually required to make, even in consideration of any difficulties Mr L encountered 
and experienced when trying to make those payments. 
There could, of course, be extreme examples which might cause me to think differently in 
this regard, such as if S was somehow completely prevented from making payments towards 
the BBL by Barclays. But that wasnt the case in this instance, and its evident that Mr L was 
aware that Ss BBL had fallen into arrears and how he could make manual payments 
towards Ss BBL if he needed to  such as if the direct debit payment wasnt successful.
Because of the above, I dont feel that there is any new or further information that Mr L can 
provide here that could reasonably cause me to not consider him, as director of S, to be 
responsible for the missed payments on Ss BBL. And this is because Mr L would need to be 
able to present information to me which would show that he was completely prevented from 
making a payment towards Ss BBL by all possible channels  which Im satisfied from the 
information already available to me, wasnt the case. And for this reason, I dont feel that 
there is any fair cause for me to delay issuing this final decision as Mr L would like.
Mr L has explained that he changed Ss address with Barclays in June 2022, which he 
believes Barclays failed to action correctly and which led to Barclays cancelling Ss BBL 
direct debit. Barclays dont agree with Mr Ls testimony in this regard, and they dont feel that 
a change of address would have the effect on Ss direct debit Mr L claims. Barclays have 
also provided contact notes for S which include that they spoke with Mr L in March 2022 
when Mr L explained that S wasnt able to afford the BBL payments at that time because S 
had opened a new shop which had impacted the amount of money that was available to 
make such payments around that time. And Barclays also say that they werent informed of 
a change of address for S until November 2022, and not in June 2022 as Mr L contends.
It's clear, then, that there are significant differences between what Mr L and Barclays say took place here. But as explained above, regarding the actions about which Mr L complains 
on Ss behalf  the defaulting of Ss BBL  I dont feel that its necessary to consider these 
discrepancies in detail. And this is because Im satisfied that the events and circumstances 
which are important to the outcome of this complaint can be confirmed.
Mr L has explained that Barclays were sending letters about the BBL arrears to an incorrect 
address. Barclays dont agree with Mr L here and feel that they sent letters to the correct 
address and note that they also attempted to contact Mr L by other channels of 
communication. 
Again, I dont feel that the differences in the testimonies of Mr L and Barclays are overly 
important here. And I say this because Im satisfied Mr L was aware that Ss BBL was in 
arrears. This is because Mr Ls own testimony  which includes that he was calling Barclays 
from June 2022 about missed payments on the BBL  confirms that this was the case.
Importantly, as explained earlier, Im satisfied that Ss contractual obligation to make the 
monthly payments as per the BBL agreement is the primary point of order here. And one 
consequence of this is that it was Mr Ls responsibility to ensure he monitored Ss BBL and 
was aware of the ongoing status of the loan by whatever channels were available to him, 
regardless of whether S was receiving correspondence about the BBL from Barclays or not.
Im also satisfied that Mr L was aware that he could make manual payments towards the 
BBL if the direct debit payment wasnt taken, for whatever reason. And I note that Mr L did 
make such a manual payment in September 2022  several months before Barclays 
eventually defaulted Ss BBL for outstanding account arrears in February 2023.
The point that Im reiterating here is that if Mr L was encountering difficulties paying Ss 
monthly BBL payments, there were alternative ways to make the BBL payments that Mr L 
was aware of but ultimately didnt utilise. And because Mr L didnt make the BBL payments, 
Ss BBL fell into arrears. And because Ss BBL fell into arrears, I dont feel that it was unfair 
for Barclays to have followed the account arrears process that they did  including the 
eventual defaulting of Ss BBL for unpaid arrears in February 2023.
Regarding the potential difficulties that Mr L may have experienced surrounding Ss BBL, 
Barclays have accepted that on one occasion Mr L was given inaccurate information about 
what action Barclays required from S given the arrears present on Ss BBL at that time. And 
Barclays have also accepted that on another occasion, the potential consequences for S of 
not clearing the arrears on the BBL werent fully explained. And Barclays have apologised to 
S for this and have offered to pay £125 compensation for any trouble and inconvenience 
these mistakes may have caused.
Barclays position here seems reasonable to me. This is consideration of the impact of these 
events on S, and also in consideration that correct information was given to Mr L about these 
points at other times. Ive also considered the general framework which this service uses 
when assessing compensation amounts  details of which are available on this services 
website  and having done so, Im satisfied that £125 is a fair compensation amount for 
these specific events.
Ive also thought about whether any further compensation might potentially be merited for 
difficulties which Mr L explains he encountered when trying to make Ss BBL payments. But I 
dont feel that the evidence available to me corroborates Mr Ls position to a reasonable 
degree here. And even if I did, Im not convinced that any further compensation would be 
merited, given the actions I feel Mr L could reasonably have taken here  such as monitoring 
Ss BBL account and making the required manual payments to clear any accrued arrears  
which I feel would have mitigated against a large position of the trouble and inconvenience S potentially encountered.
All of which means that I feel that the response that Barclays issued to Ss complaint already 
represents a fair outcome to what happened here. And so, while I will be upholding this 
complaint in Ss favour, Ill only be doing so on a limited basis  to instruct Barclays to make 
the £125 compensation payment to S that theyve already offered to make.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting. But I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision here that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £125 to S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman