DRN-1741551
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their decision to close his credit card 
account. 
What happened
Mr W held an existing credit card account with HSBC. In July 2019, HSBC contacted a 
number of customers with dormant accounts explaining that if their cards werent used 
before 4 October, the accounts would be closed.
In August, HSBC wrote to Mr W offering him a promotional balance transfer rate which 
would expire on 31 December. Mr W contacted HSBC in December to make use of this 
offer. But HSBC explained his account had been closed as it hadnt been used before 4 
October so hed need to wait six months before reapplying for a new credit card account.
Mr W was unhappy with this. He said he hadnt received the e-mail in July which explained 
the account was due to be closed. So, he didnt think it was fair that HSBC were now 
preventing him from using the promotional offer. He asked HSBC to re-instate the account 
and allow him to use the promotional rate.
HSBC responded and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said theyd closed Mr Ws 
account after he failed to use it by the deadline set in order to prevent him from the potential 
threat of fraudulent activity. They thought theyd acted within the terms of the account so 
werent willing to re-open it. But they explained Mr W could re-apply for a new account six 
months from the date the account in question was closed. Mr W was unhappy with this 
response so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained shed seen 
evidence to show the email in July had been sent and opened. So, she thought HSBC had 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account by giving Mr W two months notice 
of their intention to close the account. As Mr W hadnt used the account in that time, she 
thought HSBC had acted fairly by continuing to close it and didnt think they needed to do 
anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. He maintained that he hadnt received the email in July. He felt HSBC 
had been dismissive to his concerns considering the amount of time hed been a customer of 
theirs. So, he maintained HSBC should re-open the account and allow him to use the 
promotional offer hed been sent. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this has caused Mr W. Its clear to see that Mr W 
didnt want the account to be closed and I can understand why hed be frustrated that hes 
been unable to make use of the promotional rate HSBC offered him. But for me to agree that 
HSBC had acted unfairly, Id need to see that theyd failed to act within the terms and 
conditions of the account. And in this situation, I cant say that is the case.
The terms and conditions of the account explain that HSBC are able to close the account at 
any time, as long as they gave Mr W two months notice. Ive seen that HSBC e-mailed Mr 
W on 23 July explaining that they would close the account on 4 October if the account wasnt 
used. This gave Mr W more than two months and as the account wasnt used during that 
time, HSBC closed the account. So, I think theyve acted fairly and within their terms and 
conditions.
But, I understand Mr W feels he didnt receive this e-mail. HSBC have provided me with a 
template of the email that wouldve been sent. As it was sent as part of a campaign to a 
number of customers, I havent seen the exact email. 
But, crucially, Ive seen a screenshot of HSBCs system which shows that an email was sent 
to Mr W on 23 July as part of their use it or lose it campaign. This screenshot also shows 
me that the email was opened. So, while Im unable to speculate on why Mr W hasnt had 
sight of the email, I think HSBC did send him sufficient notice and were entitled to close the 
account when it hadnt been used within the time period they set.
I can understand why it wouldve been confusing for Mr W to then receive another email 
offering a promotional balance transfer rate in August which had a deadline that ran past the 
deadline to close the account. But, these were two separate campaigns and had Mr W used 
his account before October 4, he wouldve been able to use the promotional rate up until 31 
December. So, dont think it would be fair for me to say HSBC have done anything wrong by 
offering the promotional rate.
Ive also took into consideration Mr W comments regarding the length of time hes been a 
customer of HSBC. He feels HSBCs responses were dismissive and failed to take into 
account his loyalty as a customer. While I appreciate Mr W has banked with HSBC for a 
number of years, Im unable to agree that this means HSBC should alter their processes to 
accommodate his requests. While they could choose to do this internally should they wish, 
its not something I would expect them to do or something that would be fair for me to direct. 
So, I think HSBC acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions so I dont think they 
need to do anything further.
 My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman