DRN-3672797
The complaint
Ms H complains that AWP P&C SA mishandled her claim on a home emergency insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AWP, I refer to the above-named company and I include its policy 
administrator and others insofar as I hold AWP responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mrs H says she is on disability benefits. She has a home with a bathroom above the kitchen.
Mrs H had a home insurance policy that was branded with the name of a bank. The insurer 
responsible for dealing with claims wasnt AWP but a different company associated with the 
bank. 
For the year from October 2020, Ms H also had a home emergency insurance policy 
branded with the name of the bank. AWP was the insurer responsible for dealing with any 
claim.  
Unfortunately, on 30 June 2021, Ms H had water leaking from her bathroom and through the 
kitchen ceiling. She called AWP for help under the home emergency cover. AWP declined to 
send anyone to help. 
So Ms H engaged a plumbing company who stopped a leak under the bath. On a second 
visit, the plumbing company did a permanent repair. Its invoice dated 6 July 2021 was as 
follows:
call- out fee including first hour £250.00 
second hour £  60.00
second visit £  85.00 
materials  £  75.00 
total £470.00
Ms H complained to AWP that it hadnt helped her.
By a final response dated late July 2021, AWP turned down the complaint. It said that the 
home emergency policy didnt cover tracing and accessing the source of a leak.
Unhappy with that, Ms H brought her complaint to us in mid-October 2021. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think 
that AWP had treated Ms H fairly. The investigator didnt recommend that AWP should pay 
for the plumbers second visit. The investigator recommended that AWP should pay Ms H:
1. £310.00 as set out in her plumbers invoice dated 6 July 2021, less any relevant 
excesses;
2. 8% simple interest on this amount calculated from the date of the invoice to the date 
of settlement;
3. £150.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators opinion in part. She says, in summary, that:
AWP lied to her and sent her from pillar to post.
She is already reeling that she has to re-tile her bathroom floor as a result of this 
incident.
She has understood why the investigator awarded only the initial emergency costs.
But the investigator grossly under-estimated the impact upon her. That included the 
distress of having to borrow the money for a plumber while watching the water roll 
down the kitchen wall for two days until she raised it. 
That impact will remain until she has repaid the loans made to her to pay the 
plumber. 
AWP didnt reply to the investigators opinion.
So the investigator asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWPs policy terms included the following:
About this policy
This policy is an emergency policy and not a buildings or contents policy. It should
complement your home insurance, and provide benefits and services which are not
normally available under that type of policy.
This policy does not cover normal day-to-day property maintenance such as attention 
to items which tend to gradually wear over a period of time, or need periodic 
attention, for example the de-scaling of central heating pipes or replacement of taps 
and cistern washers.
We aim to provide rapid, expert help if you suffer an emergency arising from an 
incident covered under this policy. We will arrange for one of our list of approved 
contractors to attend and take actions to stabilise the situation and resolve the 
emergency.
I regard that as a general description of the policy. I dont consider that it excludes benefits 
and services which are normally available under a buildings or contents policy.
AWPs policy terms also included the following:
What is covered
We will:
oProvide initial advice to you;
oArrange for a tradesperson to attend your home;oPay up to £1,000 in total (incl VAT) for each emergency claim incident, 
towards labour costs (including call out charges, materials and parts required 
to effect emergency repairs in your home and overnight accommodation);
We will only provide this cover if the emergency happens during the period of cover 
and it is caused by one or more of the following:

Plumbing and drainage
Failure of, or damage to, the plumbing or drainage system which will result in water 
damage inside your home.
This includes:
burst pipes
From what Ms H and AWP has each told us, Ms H first contacted AWP about the leak on 30 
June 2021.
I dont think theres any doubt that  without urgent action  the leak wouldve damaged the 
floor and ceiling below, so Ms H had an emergency within the meaning of  the policy terms. 
And that was caused by a failure of her plumbing system.
AWPs policy terms contained exclusions including the following:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of your policy:

9 Any repair that requires trace and access works to be completed.
The use of bold type for the phrase trace and access is a reminder that it is subject to a 
policy definition. That is as follows:
Trace and access
The process of identifying and locating the source of the emergency or gaining the 
necessary access to resolve the emergency
AWP declined to visit Ms H because it thought repair would require trace and access works.
In late January 2022 Ms H told us the following:
I had no immediate funds to pay an emergency plumber, the household had to go a 
few days without a constant water supply before I could raise funds and find a 
plumber I could afford. During that time the water had to be turned off and on when 
needed
On 6 July 2021, the plumber had provided a report as follows:
I attended the emergency call out at the address on Thursday, the 1st of July 
2021. In order to expose the leak, I removed the bath panel which was siliconed on 
the tiled floor. On removal, one of the tiles cracked 
The leak was coming from a pin hole in the cold-water pipe. The pipe was made of 
plastic with a diameter of 16 mm. The make of the pipe and fittings is discontinued.
I managed to temporarily replace a part of the plastic pipe with copper, so I was able 
to turn the water back on to the property.
On my second visit, I managed to source from my suppliers the right fittings in order 
to complete the repairs. I also replaced the bath trap and the hot and cold 
connections to the bath filler, as they were leaking as well.From what Ms H and her plumber has each said, I find that she had been able to use the 
stopcock to control the leak before his visit on 1 July 2021.
From the plumbers description of the work he did (and from his photographs) I dont find that 
the repair required trace and access works. The repair merely required the removal of the 
bath panel, whereupon the leak in the pipe could be seen and accessed and temporarily 
repaired.
I dont find that Ms H had led AWP to believe that there would be any trace and access 
works. So I dont consider that AWP had treated Ms H fairly by declining to visit on the 
grounds that repair would require trace and access works.
AWPs policy terms contained a policy definition of emergency repairs. That included either 
a temporary or a permanent repair. But it only included a permanent repair if such repair 
could be carried out in one visit. 
Ms Hs plumber found difficulty is sourcing compatible fittings and had to come back for a 
second visit. And its reasonable to think that AWP wouldve made only a temporary repair. 
So Ms H wouldve had to pay for a second visit and a permanent repair. 
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct AWP to reimburse Ms H for the cost of  her 
plumbers first visit (£310.00) and leave her to bear the cost of the second visit (£160.00).
Ms H will have been out of pocket since 6 July 2021. Our investigator asked Ms H for details 
of the loan. In reply, Ms H said she would ask the bank for statements. But I havent seen 
any details or evidence of the loan. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct AWP to pay 
interest at our usual rate.
It was Ms Hs plumber who broke the floor tiles. So I dont hold AWP responsible for that. 
And if AWP had done a repair, its policy terms wouldve required it to leave Ms Hs home 
safe and habitable but not to reinstate it to its former condition. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct AWP to compensate Ms H for the damage to her tiles.
I dont doubt that by declining her claim - unfairly in my view - AWP caused Ms H extra 
distress ana inconvenience at an already difficult time. That included some difficult telephone 
conversations that left her feeling cheated. AWP also put Ms H through the worry of having 
to find the money and find a plumber. 
AWP did nothing to put this right. It turned down Ms Hs complaint. 
Ms H got the leak repaired within a couple of days. She hasnt mentioned any damage other 
than to the floor tiles. The award of interest is compensation for being out of pocket until 
reimbursement. So, overall, I conclude that £150.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the extra distress and inconvenience AWP caused Ms H.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct AWP to reimburse Ms H for the cost of  her plumbers 
first visit (£310.00) plus interest at our usual rate and £150.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AWP P&C SA to pay Ms H:1. £310.00 in part reimbursement of her plumbers invoice; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 6 July 2021 to the date of 
reimbursement. If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Ms H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman