DRN-3561624
The complaint
X complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost to a binary options 
investment scam.
What happened
Around April 2017, X came across Lionexo and TradersVIP (T) via a social media advert. He 
contacted them and they convinced him that investing with them would earn him a lot of 
money. T persuaded X that their expertise along with the Lionexo trading platform would be 
a very profitable investment with excellent returns. X had recently sold his house and was 
interested to earn some profits with his money and T said they could earn large profits 
quickly which would enable X to have a bigger house deposit to buy a better house in a good 
location.
X felt it was a legitimate investment because T called him from UK Landline numbers and 
explained they had offices in London and Liverpool. They showed him the trading account 
which X found to be impressive, with real results which convinced him to invest.
Between 26 April 2017 to 28 April 2017, X invested (£202.70, £7,914.24 and £4,045.91) onto 
his Lionexo trading account via an account with another banking provider (Bank A). He saw 
good profits and was permitted small withdrawals.
X was persuaded to make larger payments in June 2017 as T told him his account would 
reach a VIP status and they would hedge his investments so that he couldnt lose. Between 
June 2017 to October 2017, X used his Visa debit card  linked to his HSBC current account
 to make ten payments to his Lionexo trading account (via a payment processor) totalling
£46,514.61.
X understood that his investments would be for medium-term trades and made six out of ten 
of his HSBC payments in June 2017 and July 2017. Around October 2017, T got in touch 
with X to offer him a further investment which had risen suddenly, so he made four further 
payments to them.
X continued to invest larger sums onto his Lionexo trading account via Bank A until 
December 2017. He was permitted some further withdrawals to his Bank A account which 
kept him investing.
After seeing that his funds had grown and reached a sizeable amount, X attempted to 
withdraw his funds towards the end of January 2018/beginning of February 2018. When he 
did so, Lionexo wouldnt permit his withdrawals and T would instead push him to invest 
further.
T was aware that X was looking to purchase a new home and convinced him that he should 
leave his funds on his Lionexo trading account until he was ready to do so. However, despite 
previously only having success with his investments, within a few days of attempting to 
withdraw, T told X that all of his investments and profits had been lost to bad investments  
despite being told his VIP status meant he couldnt lose funds. Lionexo and T subsequently 
disappeared and X contacted HSBC for assistance with recovering his money around March 
2018.
HSBC explained it couldnt assist X with chargeback claims as it was out of time to raise 
them in accordance with Visas rules. Unhappy with HSBCs response, X referred his 
complaint to this office.
One of our Investigators felt that HSBC should refund Xs money on the basis that a 
chargeback claim would have likely succeeded. HSBC didnt agree and argued that it stood 
no reasonable prospect of success through the Visa chargeback scheme.
On 1 June 2022, I issued my provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it 
and Ill explain why.
Chargeback
I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by not processing chargeback claims on behalf of X. At the 
point of Xs HSBC payments to Lionexo, the Visa chargeback scheme could only consider 
chargeback claims to investment traders if the cardholder (X) could provide evidence that 
the merchant (Lionexo/T) expressly promised or guaranteed an amount of profit he was due 
to receive. Ive noted most of Xs interactions with T was over the phone and they made no 
written promises/guarantees of profits.
X would needed to have approached HSBC within 120 days of the date of his transaction 
with the required evidence in order to validly dispute it. Ive noted he contacted HSBC more 
than 120 days after the date of his last transaction, so HSBC didnt act unfairly by choosing 
not to raise chargeback claims on his behalf  because he was out of time.
Fraud prevention
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by X for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is
because they were made by X using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by 
HSBC.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Updated its internal watchlist to include information from credible sources within a 
month of any adverse publication. Credible sources include information published on 
the FCAs watch list or the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) Investor Alerts Portal.
Im satisfied that Lionexo were likely scammers. I say this because they were required to be 
regulated by the UKs Gambling Commission at the time of Xs payments and they were not, 
nor were they regulated anywhere else as far as Im reasonably aware. A legitimate 
company would tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
The Financial and Consumer Affairs Authority of Saskatchewan (Canada) published a 
Temporary Cease Trade Order against them in April 2018 (after X made all of his 
payments).
Ive further seen multiple negative reviews about Lionexo that repeat Xs experience with 
them and they, along with their website, disappeared shortly after X requested withdrawals.
Ive not found any regulatory warnings or credible adverse information about T but taking 
their correspondence with X into account, I think its likely they too were scammers.
As Im satisfied Lionexo/T were scammers, I need to consider whether HSBC should have 
flagged his payments to Lionexo.
Whilst HSBC ought to be alert to potential fraud and scams, there are factors that can 
influence how it decides to flag payments. One of those factors include what it knows about 
the payee, other factors include what it knows about its customers and whats normal 
account usage for them. In this case, there were no warnings about Lionexo and Xs 
payments didnt go to them directly, so I dont think it could have reasonably been aware that 
they were potential scammers.
Ive included a table of some of Xs payments to Lionexo from his HSBC current account:
Date Payee Payment method Amount
16 June 2017 Lionexo (via a payment 
processor)HSBC Visa debit £8,098.60
16 June 2017 Lionexo (via a payment 
processor)HSBC Visa debit £8,099.23
16 June 2017 Lionexo (via a payment 
processor)HSBC Visa debit £4,049.30
16 June 2017 Lionexo (via a payment 
processor)HSBC Visa debit £4,050.63
16 June 2017 Lionexo (via a payment 
processor)HSBC Visa debit £4,052.47
The initial payment was a large sum of money to pay out of an account but I dont think it 
was particularly unusual for X as hed previously paid larger sums from his account. But I 
think HSBC ought to have flagged the second payment on the same day as this was to a 
new payee, an overseas payment and looked unusual in relation to Xs normal account 
spend and I think HSBC ought to have intervened. I requested evidence from HSBC to confirm whether it had intervened and it explained it didnt hold any evidence to show this 
due to the time that has passed, so Ive concluded that there was no intervention.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that X would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him the very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed 
binary options dealers. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances.
If HSBC had asked X what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is likely 
he would have fully explained that hed been working with his broker for a few months and 
had already invested with them. HSBC did not need to know for certain whether X was 
dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly 
speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks 
obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider there 
were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided a 
scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options dealers.
If HSBC had given a warning, I dont think it would have made a difference to X. He felt 
Lionexo were legitimate and had offices in London and Liverpool. He was also persuaded 
that their impressive trading platform was legitimate. At the point of his second HSBC Visa 
debit card payment, hed already invested with them since April 2017 and was permitted 
withdrawals. He intended to leave his investment over a medium term, so he didnt need his 
money straight away and was seeing only positive growth on his trading platform. There was 
no adverse information published about Lionexo or T and by Xs own admission, he had no 
reason to suspect anything was untoward until January 2018/February 2018 (after hed 
made all of his payments). X also explained that Lionexo honoured later withdrawals upon 
his request which reassured him of the authenticity of the website. So in absence of any 
adverse information about Lionexo/T, even if X raised HSBCs concerns with T at the point 
of the second payment, I think they would have simply reassured him by permitting further 
withdrawal requests. Im not persuaded that a warning from HSBC in June 2017 would have 
stopped X in his tracks.
I also dont think Xs further payments in October 2017 would have looked unusual to HSBC 
as hed already paid similar amounts to Lionexo in June 2017. So I dont think it was 
required to intervene any further.
Because I dont think a warning would have made a difference, I dont intend to ask HSBC to 
refund any of Xs disputed payments. I appreciate this will come as a great disappointment 
to X because he has lost a considerable sum of money and I have every sympathy for that.
But I dont think HSBCs mistake by not providing a scam warning was the primary cause of 
Xs loss. I think X was convinced the investment was legitimate and would have proceeded 
with his payments until Lionexo gave him cause for concern  which didnt happen until 
much later.
Responses to my provisional decision
 
HSBC didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
X replied and didnt accept it. In summary he said:The provisional decision is in complete contradiction of our Investigators opinion.
Most victims will not realise there is a problem until they are blocked from 
withdrawing their available balances from their trading platforms. 
Under reason code 53, Visa allows chargebacks to be processed within 120 days of 
the cardholder expecting to receive the service but not to exceed 540 days from the 
transaction date. Therefore, HSBC should have processed chargeback claims. 
HSBC lied throughout the process and informed X it had processed chargeback 
claims but it did not. 
HSBC is at fault and has shown partnering with fraudulent traders by not processing 
chargeback claims. 
X should not only be refunded the loss but should receive compensation for 
harassment, psychological trauma and delay in recovering his money. 
Having reviewed Xs response to my provisional decision, I considered that HSBC should 
pay compensation for the way it handled Xs chargeback claim requests. I wrote to HSBC 
and X explaining that X had first raised his chargeback requests in March 2018. He made 
multiple calls to follow this up until he received signed declarations in June 2018  which he 
duly completed. HSBC told him hed receive his money back within a couple of days 
(presumably temporary credits while HSBC disputed the claim). The matter was referred to 
HSBCs specialist team in August 2018 who requested further evidence from X (a copy of 
his trading account) at which point X advised he could no longer access it. HSBC told X in 
October 2018 that it couldnt investigate his claims prior to 14 October 2017. It then advised 
in a subsequent letter that it could only investigate two payments dated 16 October 2017.
 
I found that HSBC gave X incorrect and misleading advice throughout the chargeback 
process. I think it ought to have requested the necessary evidence when X requested 
chargeback claims be processed. And it could have advised him much sooner that it had no 
valid chargeback grounds for any of the payments as X didnt have the required evidence 
and the majority of Xs payments were out of time for chargebacks to be processed in 
accordance with Visas rules. This was a significant amount of money for X and hed clearly 
gone to great effort to gain assistance from HSBC to help recover his payments.
 
I think this would have caused X a considerable amount of trouble and upset and I 
suggested HSBC pay £500 compensation to recognise the impact this would have had on X. 
I invited both parties to reply with any final comments. 
HSBC nor X replied, so Ill proceed with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I mostly dont uphold Xs complaint. 
Xs response to my provisional decision largely focussed on the prospect of success of his 
chargeback claims. So, Ive considered that again. 
On 11 January 2018, Visa published Visa Business News Dispute-Related Hot Topics  
January 2018. Visa allowed card issuers (HSBC) to process chargeback claims under 
Reason Code 53 if the issuer could provide written documentation from the merchant 
guaranteeing an amount of profit/return the cardholder was to receive. It went onto say that in addition, effective for transactions completed on or after 14 October 2017, Reason Code 
53 is available where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw available 
balances and the cardholder can provide a copy of the investment account statement 
showing the date, withdrawal amount and available balance at the time the withdrawal 
request was made. 
For Reason Code 53, Visa required chargebacks to be processed within 120 days of the 
transaction processing date or the date the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise 
or services. But in any event, no later than 540 calendar days from the Transaction 
Processing date. In Xs case, he received the service when his funds credited the trading 
account (which was the same date as the transaction processing date), so by the time he 
contacted HSBC to process chargeback claims (for all transactions prior to 14 October 2017) 
he was too late. But even if Im wrong on this point, he would have required specific 
evidence that he did not have for HSBC to have assisted him with processing chargeback 
claims. 
The same follows for the transactions processed after 14 October 2017. X didnt have the 
required evidence for HSBC to have assisted with chargeback claims on his behalf. Because 
of this, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by failing to process chargeback claims on his 
behalf. With that being said, it could have handled Xs chargeback claims better and for the 
reasons Ive already explained, HSBC should pay £500 compensation to recognise the 
trouble and upset this matter caused X. 
I recognise this will come as a great disappointment to X given the sums hes lost here. But I 
dont think HSBC could have prevented the loss for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, nor do I think it could have recovered his losses via the Visa chargeback scheme.
 
Because of this, I dont think that HSBC is liable to return X his losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay X £500 to recognise the trouble and 
upset the matter caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman