DRN-2838504
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) caused delays 
to a transfer from his Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) causing him financial loss. 
What happened
On 20 February 2020 HL received instructions from another ISA provider (new provider) that 
Mr M wanted to transfer his ISA to its platform. Mr M contacted HL on (Friday) 28 February 
(first chaser) and again on (Thursday) 5 March (second chaser) requesting updates on the 
transfer. But HL didnt respond to Mr Ms requests.
HL sold Mr Ms investments on 19 March for £29,337 and the proceeds were sent to the new 
provider on 27 March. Mr M complained about the delays to the transfer.
HL upheld Mr Ms complaint. It noted that clients retain the ability to buy or sell their 
investments during the transfer process. HL estimated that under its 48 hour (working days) 
timescales, it would have responded to Mr Ms second chaser by 9 March. And that because 
of Mr Ms increased concerns about the time the transfer was taking, he would likely to have 
sold his shares on 10 March if HL had told him that the transfer was going to still take some 
time. HL said the difference in value of the investments on the relevant days (10 and 19 
March), was £3,645. HL offered this sum to Mr M in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Mr M accepted HLs offer and the funds were paid to him along with £100 for the 
inconvenience. Mr M brought his complaint to our service saying that if HL had acted on his 
first chaser from 28 February, he would have been able to sell his shares by 3 March. And 
this would have meant hed be entitled to an additional £6,130 based on the value of his 
investments at that time. So he wanted HL to pay him a further £2,485 on top of the £3,645 
itd already paid him.
Our investigator considered the offer made by HL, was fair. In brief, she thought it was clear 
by the second chaser that Mr M wanted the transfer to progress more quickly and it was 
reasonable to assume at this point, that he would have acted to sell his shares. 
Mr M disagreed. He said that if HL had responded within its standard timescales to his first 
chaser, he would have been able to sell the shares earlier securing the higher value. So he 
asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
I contacted Mr M to let him know my initial thoughts. Notably, I thought the offer made in full 
and final settlement of the complaint, was fair. Mr M disagreed, saying that he hadnt 
accepted the payment in full and final settlement and wanted a final decision on the matter.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M acknowledged in his email to HL on 2 May 2020, that he understood the offer of 
£3,645 was in full and final settlement of the complaint. Before accepting this offer, Mr M 
requested information about what he would have received if the shares had been sold on 
3 March  this is the date that Mr M says he would have sold his shares if HL had responded 
to his first chaser. HL confirmed to Mr M that he would have received £6,130 more than he 
received from the sale on 19 March if his shares had been sold on 3 March.
Given all these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr M had sufficient information to make a 
fully informed decision about whether to accept this offer in full and final settlement, or to 
continue with his complaint. Mr M says he didnt confirm in his acceptance email that he was 
accepting this offer in full and final settlement. I appreciate this is the case. However, I can 
see that in his email to HL on 2 May, he clearly acknowledged he understood the offer was 
being made in full and final settlement. And he then received the further information about 
the higher value of his shares as of 3 March and he was reminded that he could bring his 
complaint to our service. All in all, I dont think its fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint 
when he accepted this offer under these circumstances.
Nonetheless, Ive still considered whether the offer was fair. And I think it was. Mr M says 
that he should be given the value of the earlier date of 3 March. However, this is on the 
assumption he would have instructed HL to sell his shares following his first chaser. At this 
point, the new ISA provider had only made the transfer request eight days before. And only 
sent its own reminder to HL on 2 March. Given the timescales for a transfer of this type is 
normally 30 days, I dont think there was any delay at this point, so I dont think it was likely 
Mr M would have sold his shares at this stage.
I do, however, think by the second chaser it was clear that Mr M wanted the transfer to 
progress more quickly. And I consider its likely at this stage, he would have been concerned 
enough to request the sale of his shares to secure the value particularly as theyd been a 
decrease in the value since his first chaser. So I think the offer made by HL on the 
assumption that Mr M wouldve sold shares on 10 March following his second chaser, is fair 
and reasonable. Given HL has already paid Mr M the offer it made as well as £100 for the 
inconvenience, which I also think is fair, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman