DRN-3422891
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lowell Financial Ltd pursued him for a debt and obtained a County 
Court Judgment (CCJ) against him. 
What happened
Mr W had several loans with another provider which were sold to Lowell in 2015. Lowell 
attempted to seek repayment of these from Mr W, but received no response to its letters and 
calls and so took further action to recover the debt. This eventually resulted in Lowell 
securing a CCJ against Mr W in 2017.
In 2021, the original lender of the loans contacted Lowell to say it would be buying back the 
loans. Lowell agreed to facilitate this but didnt take any action in relation to the CCJ. Mr W 
then contacted Lowell himself. He said that the information it was recording about the debt 
and the CCJ had caused him serious distress and had an impact on his financial position.
Lowell said that it had no reason to doubt the validity of the debts when it purchased them 
and sought repayment on that basis. It noted that the debt was made up of several loans, 
only one of which was being alleged as fraudulent. As the original lender hadnt been able to 
provide any evidence to support that the loan was fraudulent, Lowell didnt think it had any 
basis on which to apply for the CCJ to be set aside. But it agreed to pass the debt back to 
the original lender.
Mr W remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and didnt feel that they could tell Lowell to do any more. They 
said that we didnt have the power as a service to tell Lowell to put aside the CCJ, where 
that wasnt an activity covered under the rules. Then they said that they didnt feel that 
Lowell could reasonably have known that the debt here was fraudulent at the point they 
bought it. As Mr W didnt raise any issues when Lowell first told him it had purchased it, she 
thought it was fair that it bought the loans and pursued them as it did.
Mr W disagreed and felt this was unfair, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the CCJ, I can only agree with what our investigator has said here in terms of the 
limits of what we can do. A court has issued a CCJ for this debt and so the debt is legally 
owed. Now thats the case, the underlying agreement for the loan has merged with the CCJ 
the court issued. So Lowell is no longer pursuing the debt under the agreement, instead it is 
now enforcing the CCJ  which is a legal matter. Thats not something that this service can 
interfere with, or an activity that we cover under the rules that apply to us. So I am unable to 
consider any issues around this.
I have looked at what Lowell did when it first purchased the loan and chased it prior to the 
CCJ though. The information is limited because of the passing of time here. But from what 
Ive seen theres nothing to suggest that Lowell could, or should have been aware that Mr W 
may not have taken this loan out before it received the contact from the original lender.
Lowell has explained that its normal process would be that checks were done, but because 
of the time thats passed, theres no record of this now. I can see why that may concern 
Mr W, but this doesnt automatically mean that there is no basis on which Lowell should 
have pursued him, or that any checks would have necessarily revealed that he may not have 
agreed to the loan.
But, what I have seen is that Lowell sent numerous letters to Mr W and called him on a 
number of occasions  but never received any contact from him disputing the balances or 
validity of these. In the absence of that, Lowell took further action to recover the debt, as it 
wasnt receiving payments it believed were due, or receiving any contact from Mr W.
Ive considered why Mr W said that he didnt contact Lowell or respond to its letters and 
calls. But, in the absence of any contact at all, I think Lowell was entitled to think that it had 
purchased valid debts and that Mr W wasnt paying these. So I cant say that Lowell acted 
unfairly when it bought these debts and started pursuing them. Theres no evidence to say it 
should have acted any differently.
Lowell has now agreed to pass the debt back to the original lender, even if it hasnt agreed 
to apply for the CCJ to be set aside. This is as much as I can expect of Lowell, given the 
limitations on what we can do here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman