DRN-4142516
The complaint
Ms B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B had a motor insurance policy with Aviva covering her car.
In February 2023 her cars engine warning light came on. She pulled over and had the car 
recovered. An engineer inspected it and said the water pump had failed. This caused the 
engine to overheat and damaged it significantly. 
Aviva declined her claim as it said the damage wasnt covered under her policy. Ms B said 
she scrapped the car because it would be too expensive to repair.
Ms B was unhappy about Avivas decision and she brought her complaint to this service. 
She says Avivas policy doesnt exclude failure" and "defect so she thinks it should settle 
her claim by paying the retail value of her car.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Ms Bs policy 
excluded mechanical breakdowns and breakages, so he couldnt ask Aviva to pay her claim.
Ms B didnt agree with the view, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having looked at the evidence, Im not upholding Ms Bs claim. I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment to her, and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Ms Bs policy with Aviva. The key part of the policy which is the area of 
contention in this case is the exclusion to the section of cover shown as Loss or damage to 
your car.
The exclusion is:
What we wont pay for:
wear and tear, loss or damage which happens gradually, mechanical 
breakdown or breakage
Ms B has looked into the meaning of the words used by Aviva in its wording. Its important 
that I say these are very similar to the wordings used across the insurance marketplace.
She says that the engineer who inspected her car said the part had failed or was defective 
and shes provided definitions of these. Shes also confirmed that no incident took place and 
the engine warning light just came on.
Put simply, the part of her car that ceased to function properly then caused the engine to be 
heavily damaged. I think its fair to say the part went wrong in some way. This would have 
happened by it failing either due to extended use, or by it failing in a more rapid mode due to 
some sort of defect.
The first of those failures is commonly referred to as wear and tear which I can see is 
excluded under the policy. 
The second of those is when a part breaks before its design parameters have been 
exceeded. This would be called a failure or more commonly a breakdown. So, a 
mechanical part on Ms Bs car suffered a breakdown, and I can see this also isnt covered 
under her policy.
I can see that it must have been upsetting for this to have happened to Ms B. But I dont 
think Aviva has done anything wrong under the policy and so I dont ask them to do anything 
else.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman