DRN-4381789
The complaint
Ms B (on behalf of her business, T) complains that Sumup Payments Limited wont refund 
money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Ms B held a merchant account for her business with Sumup. In January 2023 she had 
posted details online of some equipment she was sourcing for a customer, when an 
individual contacted her claiming to be an agent for a company she had previously dealt 
with. This individual claimed they could provide the equipment Ms B was looking for at a 
significant discount, and discounted the cost further after Ms B complained that they had 
been rude to her. Unfortunately, and unknown to Ms B, this individual was a scammer.
Ms B agreed to purchase the equipment and made a partial payment from her Sumup 
account, but before doing so she contacted Sumup to change the phone number associated 
with her account. Ms B says she asked if she would be covered if anything went wrong with 
the payment and that Sumup said she would be, so she went ahead with the payment, for 
£900.
The next day Ms B spoke with a legitimate representative of the company she thought she 
had been dealing with, and realised shed been the victim of a scam. She contacted Sumup 
to ask it to stop the payment, and reported it as fraudulent.
Ultimately, Sumup said that it was unable to stop the payment and did not think it was liable 
for Ms Bs loss, it also said it had been unable to recover any of the funds from the recipient 
account. Ms B was unhappy with how Sumup had handled her concerns, so she referred her 
complaint to us. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, and identified that there appeared 
to have been a miscommunication when Ms B spoke with Sumup before she made the 
payment. The Investigator considered that Sumup should pay Ms B some compensation for 
this  £400  but did not consider that they could be held responsible for Ms Bs financial 
loss. Ms B disagreed, she maintains that she would not have made the payment if Sumup 
had not told her it would be covered if something went wrong. 
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
The starting position is that Ms B is responsible for transactions shes carried out
herself (even as a result of deception). Because of this, Ms B is not automatically entitled to 
a refund. But the regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a 
requirement for account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. 
And this includes monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer 
was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and 
trying to prevent customers falling victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Sumup acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Ms B, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive looked at Ms Bs account activity, and while the payment of £900 was higher than the 
other transactions on the account, it wasnt sufficiently unusual to reasonably say Sumup 
shouldnt have allowed the payment to go through without first getting in touch with Ms B to 
check everything was in order. So I dont think Sumup missed an opportunity to flag the 
payment or question Ms B about the circumstances surrounding the payment. I therefore 
dont see how Sumup could have uncovered that the payment was a scam before it was 
made.
I acknowledge that Ms B did speak to Sumup before making the payment, and that she 
asked Sumup if she was covered for buying goods for her business and said that she 
wated to make sure she was insured in case of anything. From listening to the 
conversation Ms B had with Sumup its clear that the staff member she spoke to did not 
understand what she was asking here. I appreciate that he said absolutely after Ms B 
asked about being insured, and that Ms B took this to mean that she would be covered if the 
payment she was making was fraudulent. But I dont think it was clear from what shed said 
that this was what she was asking. Nor was it clear from the staff members responses that 
he had either understood her or was agreeing that she was insured for fraudulent payments. 
So while I agree that Sumup could have been clearer in this interaction with Ms B, I also 
dont think she made it clear what she was actually wanting from Sumup, nor did she provide 
any context about what she wanted to be covered or insured for. I appreciate that Ms B 
has particular health conditions that may have affected her decision making here, but Sumup 
was not aware of that, so I wouldnt expect it to have taken account of those health issues 
during its initial interactions with Ms B.
With this in mind, while I agree that this interaction could have been handled better by 
Sumup, I dont think that the confusion caused by this call means that Sumup should be 
liable for Ms Bs financial loss here. It is, after all, the scammer who has defrauded Ms B, not 
Sumup. And nothing that Ms B said in this call should, in my mind, have caused any concern 
to Sumup about the legitimacy of the payment that Ms B was making.
Lastly, Im satisfied that Sumup could not have done more to recover the funds. I agree with 
our investigator that Sumup could have contacted the recipient bank more quickly, but Ive 
seen confirmation that the funds were removed from that recipient account before Ms B 
reported the scam to Sumup. So even if Sumup had contacted the recipient bank earlier, 
there would still have been no funds left for it to recover.
Overall, I agree that there were some aspects of poor customer service here, largely 
surrounding the misunderstanding between Ms B and the staff member she spoke to at 
Sumup. But Im satisfied that Sumups offer of £400 is fair and reasonable compensation to 
recognise the impact of its actions here. Ive noted what Ms B has said about her continued 
interaction with the scammer, and the upset that caused, but as I noted above, I dont think it 
is fair or reasonable to hold Sumup liable for the actions of the scammer, given that Im 
satisfied it could not have known that Ms B was being scammed before the payment was 
sent.I know this will be disappointing for Ms B, but I hope she will understand the reasons for my 
decision.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Sumup should pay Ms B £400.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sumup Payments Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B (on behalf of 
T) to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman