DRN-3652977
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with his previous motorbike insurer MCE Insurance Limited as an error of 
its meant he wasnt insured and he was stopped by the police.
What happened
Mr A had insurance with MCE for his motorbike. But MCE, in error, changed details on 
Mr As policy so he wasnt insured. He was stopped by the police in September 2021 which 
caused him distress and inconvenience. He was also fined. He had two weeks off work.
MCE accepted it had made a mistake. It provided Mr A with a letter to that effect which he 
could present to the police. It also reimbursed his outlay for the fine and paid £150 
compensation. It said it would consider any evidence Mr A presented to it regarding lost 
earnings. This was all confirmed in its final response letter dated 10 November 2021. Mr A 
complained to this service.
Our Investigator explained to Mr A that she could only look at what had happened to the 
date of MCEs 10 November 2021 response. She said that Mr A would need to present his 
evidence of lost earnings to MCE and if, once it made an offer to him, he remained unhappy, 
he could make a further complaint. But, regarding compensation for upset, our Investigator 
said MCE had not paid a fair and reasonable sum. She said it should pay a total of £600, 
meaning it would have to pay Mr A a further £450. 
Mr A said he wanted £1,000 to £5,000 compensation. MCE said it felt £150 was in line with 
our guidelines  so was fair and reasonable. The complaint was passed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view MCE failed Mr A and I think this caused him considerable distress and 
inconvenience. I know Mr A is unhappy with how the police treated him and I cant look at 
that. But, even just being stopped by the police is a distressing situation, and a significant 
inconvenience of itself. There is then everything Mr A had to do to try and resolve the 
situation. All of which Mr A wouldnt have encountered but for MCEs error. A sum of just 
£150, in my view, is not fair and reasonable compensation, in all of the circumstances here, 
for the upset Mr A was caused. 
I know Mr A would like at least £1,000 compensation. But I think an award of that magnitude 
would be unfair and unreasonable in the circumstances here. Awards at that level are 
usually made where a businesss error caused substantial inconvenience over a period of 
many months. MCE took action to put things right relatively quickly here by writing the letter 
for Mr A and reimbursing the fine amount. And that mitigated the situation for Mr A. Im 
satisfied that £600 in total is fair and reasonable compensation.
Let me be clear. That is just compensation for Mr As non-financial loss of distress and 
inconvenience, caused by MCEs initial error of changing Mr As policy. Like our Investigator 
I have only taken into account what happened up until 10 November 2021. So if Mr A is 
unhappy about anything which occurred after that, hell have to make a new complaint. And 
I havent looked at anything to do with Mr As reported financial loss caused by him being 
unable to work for two weeks after the incident. I know he sent us his doctors note regarding 
that, but MCE hadnt given its final position on the matter; either in its 10 November letter or 
when Mr A complained to us. So if he isnt happy with any decision MCE makes in respect of 
his lost earnings, Mr A will have to make a further complaint.
Putting things right
I require MCE to pay Mr A a total of £600 compensation. If £150 of that has already been 
paid to Mr A, then MCE will only now have to pay him a further £450.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman