DRN-3744147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that in 2014 The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) declined 
to extend the term on their mortgage. Mr and Mrs H sold the property in September 2016. To 
settle the complaint Mr and Mrs H would like compensation for the upheaval, trauma and life 
changes caused by RBSs decision which resulted in them having to re-think their retirement 
plans.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, , 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 9 August 2010 Mr and Mrs H took out a capital repayment mortgage with RBS over a 
term of nine years. This was known as a One Account, which consolidated current, savings 
and mortgage accounts into one pot. 
In January 2014 Mr and Mrs H applied to extend the mortgage term by one year because 
Mr Hs retirement age had been extended by a year. They were asked for additional 
information, which was provided in May 2014. After this was considered by underwriters, 
RBS declined the application as it did not meet affordability criteria at the time. Mr and Mrs H 
sold the property on 16 September 2016 and repaid the mortgage in full.
In 2019 Mr H, who has dealt with the matter throughout, complained to RBS. The bank didnt 
uphold the complaint, explaining in its final response letter of 16 September 2019 that 
affordability criteria at the time hadnt been met. That letter provided Mr and Mrs H with 
referral rights to our service. There was some further correspondence after that, referred to 
below.
In August 2021 RBS sent Mr and Mrs H a goodwill payment of £500 in relation to a 
remediation exercise it had previously carried out on its One accounts. In September 2021 
Mr H contacted RBS again about the term extension complaint, saying that hed never been 
given a response. 
RBS issued another final response letter dated 14 September 2021 explaining that it had 
issued a final response on 16 September 2019, and that Mr H had written back to the bank 
on 18 September 2019 querying whether this was the banks final response and that RBS 
had confirmed in another letter dated  24 September 2019 that it was.
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs H raised their complaint with our service. Mr H said theyd 
made two complaints to RBS in 2019  one about the decreasing term feature of the One 
account and the other about extending the mortgage term. He assumed the £500 was in 
relation to the decreasing term, and said that hed made another complaint about a term 
extension. 
Mr H said that hed asked RBS on 18 September 2019 for details of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, but had never received a reply. He assumed RBS had ignored the 
letter. Mr H reiterated his concerns that he and Mrs H had been treated unfairly by RBSs 
refusal to extend the mortgage term by a year.
RBS agreed that we could consider the complaint, notwithstanding that it had issued a final 
response in 2019.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He was satisfied that RBS had acted fairly in 
declining to extend the mortgage term in 2014. This is because Mr and Mrs H hadnt met the 
banks affordability criteria.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr H said that, given all the information RBS had, the bank should have seen that 
there was a possible risk of a repossession and therefore a referral of their request for a 
term extension to management was necessary and a requirement of the banks process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by saying that it is fortunate for Mr and Mrs H that RBS has granted consent to us 
looking at this complaint, because, on a strict application of our rules, the final response 
letter issued by RBS on 16 September 2019 would have meant this complaint was out of 
time as it was brought to us more than six months after that letter was sent. But as this is an 
issue which is clearly troubling to Mr and Mrs H (and has been for many years), it is best for 
all parties that a line is drawn under this matter  and this final decision is the last word on 
the complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs H  
Im not upholding their complaint. I set out my reasons below.
I will begin by explaining that the £500 paid by RBS in 2021 was related to a remediation 
exercise carried out across all its One accounts several years earlier. RBS had recognised 
that its documentation about how the account operated might not have been clear enough 
and so it offered all customers  whether they had been affected or not  some form of 
redress. This wasnt an admission of fault by the bank in relation to its handling of this 
particular account, nor was it in relation to the request for a term extension.
There is no right to a term extension. When considering whether or not to extend a mortgage 
term, RBS is entitled to consider whether or not this is going to be affordable. RBS is 
required by the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) to 
ensure that any change made to a mortgage contract is affordable and that the bank has 
acted responsibly.
I note new regulations had come into effect in April 2014 that would have allowed RBS to 
forego an affordability assessment in certain circumstances. However, where there is a material change to the mortgage contract  and a term extension is considered a material 
change  then I am satisfied RBS was allowed to consider affordability. 
The contact notes provided by RBS from 2014 show that, after Mr H made the original 
request in January 2014, by the time the bank had received the pension information from 
Mr H, he and Mrs H had taken out a loan and increased their credit card debt. As a result, 
they didnt meet RBSs affordability criteria for a term extension. I think RBSs concerns 
about affordability were legitimate and the decision the bank reached was one it was entitled 
to make. 
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs H have told us about the financial and personal events that have 
happened since they moved. But I cant hold RBS responsible for these. I appreciate that the 
banks decision was upsetting for Mr and Mrs H. But Im not persuaded that their only option 
was to sell the property and move. Mr H still had seven years before his new retirement date 
and the amount outstanding on the mortgage was under £90,000. In the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded that it would have been impossible for Mr and Mrs H to have sourced a new 
mortgage from another lender, if they were so unhappy with RBSs decision not to extend 
the mortgage term in May 2014.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman