The complaint  
Mr and Mrs Y  complain about the suitability of the advice they received from Bank of 
Scotland trading as Halifax, (Halifax) in 1995. They say that neither the recommendation for 
Mr Y to contract out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) and to pay 
perso nal contributions into a personal pension, nor the advice to take out a joint protection 
policy was suitable. They want to be in the position they would be in now had they received 
suitable advice.  
What happened  
In October 1994 Mr and Mrs Y met with Hali fax and completed a financial review. Halifax 
made various recommendations and, following another meeting in April 2015, Mr Y agreed 
to contract out of SERPS into a personal pension and make monthly personal contributions 
of £125.04 into the same plan. In addition, a joint  essential protection  policy  which 
covered Mr and Mrs Y in the event of either death, was taken out with a monthly premium of  
£44.96.  
In 1999 Mr Y  contacted Halifax as he wanted to stop his pensions premiums. At the same 
time, he sent a cheque to make up for a missed payment on the protection policy so that it 
would remain in force. Mr Ys regular pension payments didnt resume but the contracted ou t 
national insurance payments continued to be made into the plan until 2012.  
In 2010 premiums into the protection plan were stopped and in February 2011 the policy 
lapsed with no residual value.  
In October 2017 Mr Y applied to take the benefits from his pension as a lump sum  which 
was paid to him in January 2018.  
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs Y complained to Halifax about the advice theyd been given in 
1995. They said theyd been mis sold a pension and a protection plan which didnt suit their 
needs. They s aid the policies hadnt been explained to them and that they were pressured 
into taking out the protection plan. They said that Mr Y had adequate benefit from his 
employer in the event of redundancy and being off sick so didnt think the protection plan 
was necessary for their circumstances. They also complained that being contracted out of 
SERPS meant Mr Y would receive a lower pension amount.  
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs Y had a need for life cover and 
retirement planning, so i t didnt think the recommendations were unsuitable. It also said 
there had been a considerable time gap between the first and second meetings and in the 
second meeting Mr and Mrs Y had declined some recommendations and altered others  so 
it didnt accept that they had been pressured to take out the  plans.  
DRN-1517431But Mr and Mrs Y werent happy with that response and brought their complaint to us where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld because:  
 
 The advice to contract out of SERPS wasnt unsuitable based on the key factors that 
needed to be  considered.  
 Mr Ys circumstances at the time suggested that he did have a need for additional 
pension  provision.  
 The essential protection policy wasnt PPI, it was a term assurance policy which paid 
out on death. The fact find that was completed in 1995 demonstrated that there was 
a need for life cover and the policy that was recommended seemed to be  suitable.  
 There was around a month between the first meeting and the decision to take out 
some of the policies that were recommended. And some of the recommendations 
were declined and adjusted  so she couldnt say that the policies werent explained 
or that Mr and Mrs Y were pressured into taking them  out. 
 The evidence suggested that policy terms and information were provided  which 
would have given Mr and Mrs Y the opportunity to look at them and ask any further 
questions before going  ahead.  
 When Mr Y took a break  from his pension contributions in 1999, he and Mrs Y sent a 
cheque to  continue paying the life assurance plan . This suggested  that 
Mr and Mrs Y were aware of what the policy was about and made a conscious effort 
to carry on paying it even though they co uld have stopped at that point without 
penalty.  
 
Mr and Mrs Y didnt agree. They made the following points:  
 
 They went to Halifax for savings information. The appointment became a sales 
opportunity and led to them being sold unsuitable  products.  
 The plans were not explained to  them.  
 The protection policy was unsuitable, unaffordable and they were pressured into 
taking it  out. 
 Contracting out of SERPS made Mr Y financially worse off. And the final pension 
amount that was paid out was less than indicated in the letter they received pr ior to 
payment.  
 They confirmed details of certain financial difficulties and medical conditions that 
meant it had been difficult to bring the complaint before  now.  
Mr Y confirmed that he received a quotation for the cash -in value of his pension in 
Octo ber 2017. He says it quoted a lump sum payment (after tax) of £19,978.35. However,  
when the payment of his pension benefits was made to his bank in January 2018 it was for a 
sum of £18,33745. He said he was confused as to why the amount had reduced in that  time.  
 
But as no resolution to the complaint could be found Mr and Mrs Y asked for it to be referred 
to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for a review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although Halifaxs advice was given to Mr and Mrs Y more than six years ago it has 
consented to us looking into this complaint. And having considered the matter I agre e with 
the investigators assessment and for broadly the same reasons.  
 
Ive seen how Mr and Mrs Y  feel about this matter, and I have some sympathy for their 
position, particularly on learning about the medical problems that Mrs Y and one of the 
children have suffered over the years, and I know this outcome will disappoint them  so Ill 
explain my rea soning.  
 
I also need to clarify that, while Mr and Mrs Y have also referenced a complaint about PPI, 
this case is about a joint life assurance plan as well as a pension in Mr Ys name. So, Ill only 
be considering this complaint about the suitability of bo th those contracts.  
 
The recommendation for Mr Y to take out a personal pension and to contract out of SERPS.  
 
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS it didnt offer 
advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS a nd those for whom it might be 
beneficial to contract out. So the main factors that were used to determine whether someone 
was likely to be better off as a result of such advice were age, earnings and the time until 
retirement. One of the attractions of con tracting out of SERPS at an early age is that the 
younger someone is, the longer there is until retirement and the greater chance that a 
personal pension could perform better than SERPS over this longer period.  
 
Looking at Mr Ys circumstances at the time of sale, including his age, the amount he was 
earning and that he didnt have access to a workplace pension, I cant see that the advice he 
was given to contract out of SERPS was inappropriate in his individual circumstances. He 
may not have benefitted ult imately from the decision to contract out of SERPS, but this 
couldnt have been established at the time of the advice and I can only take into 
consideration factors that were known at the time.  
 
Mr Y was aged 32 at that time and held a small value pension plan with another provider. As 
a result, Halifax made a recommendation for Mr Y to make individual contributions to the 
plan to increase his retirement provision. Mr Y agreed to make contributions although below 
the level that was advised. So, looking at M r Ys situation at that time it doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me that he should be advised to increase his retirement provision through 
the addition of regular contributions to the contracted -out plan. I dont think Halifax did 
anything wrong there.  
 
The e ssential protection plan  
 
This protection plan was a simple term assurance policy which was designed to pay out a 
lump sum in the event of either Mr or Mrs Ys death. It did also contain a waiver of premium 
option which could cover the premiums in certain  situations. The plan didnt have any 
residual value when it ceased  before or on its end date.  
 
So Ive considered whether that plan was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs Y at 
that time. I ve looked carefully at the financial review document that was completed during 
the meetings between Mr and Mrs Y and Halifax  and the subsequent suitability report. I 
can see that Halifax identified that Mr and Mrs Y had a shortfall in the amount of life cover 
needed in the event of either death. It carried out calculations to ascertain the amount of 
cover required until their youngest child was 21, so that the family would be protected in 
such event until the children could be considered independent. The recommendation was 
made for a plan which paid £166,666 on either death.  Neither Mr or Mrs Y held any active employer benefits that would pay out in the event of 
their death and Halifax recorded details of one other small policy they he ld. So, looking at 
their circumstances as a whole, I dont think the recommendation for family life cover in the 
event of Mr or Mrs Ys death was unsuitable.  
 
As long as the sum assured and the recommended term were appropriate  which I think 
they were he re, I wouldnt usually consider the recommendation of protection plans to be 
unsuitable for a couple with a young family. I realise that as Mr and Mrs Y didnt receive any 
return on the plan, they might consider it didnt fulfil their need for  savings  which they said 
they asked Halifax for information on. But that doesnt mean the recommendation of a life 
cover policy was unsuitable and inappropriate for their situation in 1995.  
 
Were the policies explained and were Mr and Mrs Y pressured into taking them  out? 
 
Mr and Mrs Y have said that they were pressured into taking out the two plans, but I havent 
seen anything to show that was the case. Mr and Mrs Y first met with Halifax in  
October 1994 and returned for further meetings in March/April 1995 and the p lans started a 
short while later  although I note that Mr and Mrs Y adjusted the plans and premiums that 
were recommended, mainly on the grounds of affordability.  
 
So, I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs Y were pressured into the sales as there were some 
months during the meetings which would have given them time to reflect on the 
recommendations that were made initially. They also were able to change some of the 
premiums that were recommended which would suggest that they were able to consider 
their commit ments before agreeing to go ahead. I also note that Mr Y completed the 
paperwork for his pension at home before sending the signed application to Halifax, so I 
dont think it could be said that he was pressured into the sale of the pension plan.  
 
Mr and Mr s Y said that Halifax  never properly explained to us what eventualities the 
essential protection plan covered us for. It was only during the recent telephone 
conversation dated 1 August 2019that it seems the policy covered us in the event of 
Mr Ys death . But I note that when Mr and Mrs Y wrote to Halifax in 1999 to apply for a  
premium break on  the personal pension, they enclosed a cheque for the missed essential 
protection policy premiums explaining that  we do wish to continue with life assurance plan . 
So its difficult for me to conclude that Halifax didnt properly explain the policy as  
Mr and Mrs Y did seem to understand what it was for in 1999, before the telephone 
conversation in 2019.  
 
Mr Y has said that his wife went to see Halifax to set up savings plans and accounts as well 
as finding out more about being able to buy their own home. B ut Halifaxs recommendations 
from 1994 and 1995 covered a number of areas including a recommendation for a regular 
investment plan  which wasnt taken up by Mr and Mrs Y. So, looking at the various 
illustrations that were issued at the time, I cant say M r and Mrs Y werent given a number of 
policy options  covering all areas of their finances. It was for Mr and Mrs Y to decide which 
plans they wanted to take out.  
 
Mr Y has told us that when he received the lump sum benefit from his pension in  
January 201 8 the amount was lower than hed been quoted in a letter from October 2017. 
But Ive seen that within the quotation it was stated that,  the above pension savings value is 
not guaranteed and may vary between now and the pension start date, so the benefits 
available may be higher or lower than shown. So no guarantees were made to Mr Y that the 
final amount would be the same. And I note the payment was made around three months 
after he received the cash -in lump sum quotation.  However, wh ile Ive explained why the value was able to change before final payment, Mr Y 
hasnt yet complained about the fall in the final value to Halifax. So if he requires a fuller of 
explanation of why the value did fall, he ought to approach Halifax. Mr Y would  then be free 
to pursue the complaint process with Halifax and ultimately with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service if he remained unhappy with the response.  
My final decision  
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.  
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.  
Keith Lawrence  
Ombudsman  