DRN-2283071
The complaint
 Mrs W complains a car she acquired with finance from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She asks to reject the car.
 
What happened
 Mrs W is represented in her complaint by Mr S, but for ease I shall refer to Mrs W 
throughout my decision.
On 20 June 2018, Mrs W entered into a conditional sale agreement with Barclays in order to 
acquire a car for her son. It was a used car that was approximately four years old and had 
travelled approximately 26,500 miles when it was supplied, and the price of the car was 
lower than it would have been if it had been supplied new. 
Mrs W paid a deposit of £1,500. The agreement was for 60 months with a monthly 
repayment of £541.79.
On 18 July 2018, Mrs W contacted Barclays to complain about the car and the dealership. 
She said the car had been back with the dealership for nine days to undergo repairs, she 
was very unhappy and didnt feel the repairs had been carried out properly. She said the car 
remained faulty and had parts missing.
On 1 August 2018, Mr S contacted Barclays on behalf of Mrs W. He said the car had a major 
fault with the gear selector. He said he had informed the dealership he didnt want the car 
repaired but they continued to do so. They had said the car would be brought up to 
showroom standard, but he didnt agree this was the case. Mrs W said she wished to 
exercise her right to reject the car.
On 3 August 2018, the car was taken to an Audi dealership, it provided an assessment of 
the issues with the car. Whilst there are quite a lot of cosmetic issues, there are also other 
issues such as the air intake pipe missing, car pulling to the left, both cats broken up 
internally and rattling, steering shaft contacting heat shield, parking sensor fault, sump 
dented and bumper, engine, gearbox undertrays missing.
On 7 August 2018, Mr S complained to Barclays on behalf of Mrs W again. He again said he 
did not want any repairs to be done by the dealership. He said he would accept a like for like 
replacement as a resolution.
On 13 August 2018, the original dealership confirmed it had received the quotes from the 
Audi dealership along with an inspection video. It said it intended to follow up in a few days 
to see what it could do to resolve the issues.
On 1 October 2018, Barclays instructed an independent engineer from Automotive 
Consulting Engineers (ACE) to carry out an inspection. The engineers technical comments 
were:
We connected diagnostic equipment. This revealed fault code UO16-400 - lost
communication with HVAC module. This is the heating ventilation air control module.
We carried out a visual inspection of the engine bay. This revealed the air conditioning pipe
at the nearside front of the vehicle was rubbing on the nearside front wheel/tyre. The
nearside front inner wheel arch liner was also damaged. As such we were reluctant to road
test the vehicle.
The engineer says in his opinion:
In our opinion based upon the visible evidence we can conclude the vehicle displayed no
noticeable DSG gearbox fault at the time of our inspection. However, we declined to road
test the vehicle due to the nearside front wheel contacting the air conditioning pipe. 
He also provided the following comments:
Further checking is required when the vehicle is in a roadworthy condition to confirm liability
and any faults.
On 23 October 2018, Barclays issued a final response to Mrs W, it didnt agree to allow her 
to reject the car and so she brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs W. He found it was more likely than not there was 
a fault present or developing at the point of sale. He found the ACE report inconclusive but 
the report from the Audi dealership listed a number of faults he wouldnt have expected to 
see within two months of acquiring the car. He concluded Mrs W should be allowed to reject 
the car and asked Barclays to:
  End the agreement with nothing further to pay
  Refund the £1,500 deposit plus 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of 
settlement       
  Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mrs Ws credit file
  Collect the car from Mrs W at no cost to her and
  Pay Mrs W £150 for distress & inconvenience
Barclays agreed with the investigators findings.
Mrs W agreed with the outcome but didnt agree the redress went far enough. She asked for 
a full refund of all the monthly finance payments she had made. She cited the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. In her opinion she was entitled to a refund of all the payments made.
The investigator looked at the complaint again but found as the car had travelled over 
20,000 whilst in Mrs Ws ownership it wasnt fair and reasonable to refund the monthly 
finance payments.
Mrs W disagreed. She asked for an ombudsman review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Barclays is also the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 and also the Consumer Rights Act 2015 are relevant to this 
complaint. The CRA says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  considering any description of the goods, 
the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving 
a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
Barclays supplied Mrs W with a car that was 4 years old and had travelled around 26,500 
miles. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it had been supplied 
new.
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might 
have already suffered some wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need 
repair and/or maintenance 
The relevant law still says a used car shouldve been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If 
it wasnt then Barclays is responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable. On this basis if I thought the car was faulty, and so not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to put this right. 
I have reviewed all the information provided and Im in agreement with the investigator that 
on balance its more likely than not a fault was present or developing at the point of sale. I 
say this because although the ACE report was inconclusive there are clearly faults detailed 
from the Audi dealership on the job card dated 03 August 2018. Mrs W contacted Barclays 
within two months of acquiring the car to complain about the faults and after agreeing to 
repairs in July 2018 was not prepared to accept further repairs when the car failed again. On 
this basis I think it fair and reasonable that Mrs W be allowed to reject the car.
Barclays have accepted these findings and so it seems the main crux of this complaint 
remains in how the matter should be settled.
I think its important to say at the outset, that my role here isnt to fine or punish a business. If 
an error has occurred, I look to see look at how a business has sought to address the issue 
and whether that approach is fair and reasonable.
In terms of redress my starting point would be to put Mrs W back in the position she would 
have been in had she not taken out the conditional sale agreement with Barclays. I find it fair 
and reasonable then that the deposit Mrs W paid be refunded with interest, all the 
information regarding the agreement be removed from her credit file and the car collected at 
no cost to herself.I appreciate Mrs W also wants a full refund of all the monthly payments made under the 
agreement she feels the Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows for this. I think there appears to 
have been some misunderstanding of the legislation. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 states 
that a finance company is entitled to make a deduction for the use made by the consumer of 
a vehicle and having listened to the telephone calls between Mrs W and this service Im 
aware this has already been explained. 
But in any event, my role here is to look at what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the complaint. I can see from the job card in August 2018, the car had travelled over 
20,000 miles. This is a significant distance and so I dont agree it would be fair and 
reasonable to refund the monthly finance payments as that would effectively mean Mrs W, or 
her son, has had use of the car for free.
Mr S has told this service he has spent a significant sum on the car bringing it up to 
standard. Unfortunately, he has been unable to provide any receipts or invoices for the work 
he has undertaken and so Im not able to consider any refund of monies without the 
documentary evidence
 
I appreciate Mrs W wanted further compensation by way of a refund of the monthly 
payments but as Ive said I dont agree this would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given Im upholding this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to:
 End the agreement with nothing further to pay
 Refund the £1,500 deposit plus 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of 
settlement       
 Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mrs Ws credit file
 Collect the car from Mrs W at no cost to her and
 Pay Mrs W £150 for distress & inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman