DRN-3477742
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain about XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limiteds (XL Catlin) 
handling of claims made under their buildings warranty policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs W and Mr W bought a new build house, which was covered by a new home 
warranty. They say they identified a number of defects quickly came to light. Mr W says they 
engaged a surveyor, electrical specialist, and structural engineer to provide reports, all of 
which concluded there were defects with the property. 
Mrs W and Mr W complained to XL Catlin, and it instructed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster 
visited their home and inspected the defects Mrs W and Mr W pointed out. In March 2022, 
XL Catlin responded to their complaint. It said some of the defects identified would not be 
covered by the policy because they were not considered Major Damage. With regards to the 
uneven floors, XL Catlin said it considered that, based on the information provided, it was 
likely to be considered Major Damage, but noted further investigations were being carried 
out. 
XL Catlin agreed the window defect could be classed as Major Damage. Depending on the 
nature of the repair carried out, it may or may not cost less than the policy excess.
Mrs W and Mr W remained unhappy with XL Catlins response and referred their complaint 
to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who said she didnt think XL 
Catlin had acted incorrectly. As Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree, this matter has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides are familiar with the background to this case, Ill trust theyll accept the brief 
summary above isnt intended a undermine whats happened. Instead its a reflection of the 
informal nature of this service. I think its helpful to also clarify here that Im only able to 
consider whats happened up to the date of the final response issued by XL Catlin. My 
decision here focuses on what I consider to be the central issues of this complaint. 
While the case was waiting to be passed to me, Mrs W and Mr W told us the claim for the 
flooring had been accepted by XL Catlin. This was accepted following a further inspection 
where structural defects were identified. On the basis of the information provided about the 
further inspection that was carried out in February 2022, I think its reasonable this part of 
the claim is accepted. If Mrs W and Mr W have any concerns about how this claim is settled, 
they can refer this to us as a separate complaint. 
And likewise, for the window, this has also been accepted. Mr W recently said while the 
window casement needs to be removed, this may lead to further building or decorating 
works. Based on what Ive seen so far, XL Catlin is acting in line with the policy terms in 
replacing the window casement. If Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy with how these repairs are 
carried out, theyre able to refer these concerns to this service as a new complaint.
Ive gone on to consider whether I think XL Catlin acted fairly in concluding some of the 
defects identified werent classed as major damage. Here Im referring to the electrical 
issues with the fire alarm system and the placement of the consumer unit, the drains from 
the first-floor bathrooms and the retaining wall. 
At this point, its helpful to clarify the certificate of insurance confirmed the Defects Insurance 
Period in place for the first two years of the warranty (Section 4.1) has been removed. This 
was the timeframe in which the developer would usually be notified of any defects. Instead, 
the certificate of insurance says Section 4.2 (referred to as the Structural Insurance Period) 
of the policy was amended to include the first two years of the warranty. Its this policy term 
XL Catlin relied on in declining some of Mrs W and Mr Ws claims, so Ive considered this 
policy term, which Ive set out below:
The Insurer(s) will cover the Insured against all claim discovered and notified to the 
Insurer(s) during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of: -
1. The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying Work the Housing Unit(s) 
which has been affected by Major Damage
The policy defines major damage as:
Any fault, failure or defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of 
the:
Structure;
or
Waterproofing component of the Waterproof Envelope;
or
Below-ground Drainage system
Considering the policy terms, and how major damage is defined, I dont think XL Catlin has 
acted unfairly in declining Mrs W and Mr Ws claims for the two electrical issues and the first-
floor bathroom drains. 
There isnt a dispute that there are established defects with the wiring of the fire alarms and 
concerns about the placement of the consumer unit. This has been supported by the 
independent report commissioned by Mrs W and Mr W. I understand Mrs W and Mr W 
consider the electrical defect must be rectified in line with statutory requirements. But my 
role here is to consider what the policy requires XL Catlin to do. And this policy requires XL 
Catlin to address defects in the structure, waterproof envelope, or below-ground drainage 
system. As the electrical system doesnt tie in to any of these categories, I cant require XL 
Catlin to take further action in relation to the electrical system or say it has acted unfairly in 
declining their claim. 
Ive also considered the comments from the chartered surveyor about the drains in the first-
floor bathrooms draining slowly. The surveyor noted his opinion the slow drains were 
defective, and the final response letter said a plumbers report was required to confirm the 
cause of the slow draining system. Up until the date of the final response, I havent seen any 
evidence provided showing the slow running drains are linked to a defect in the below-
ground drainage system. So, based on the evidence provided in relation to this defect, I 
dont consider XL Catlin is responsible for carrying out repairs in relation to this issue. In relation to the issue with the retaining wall, the policy defines what forms the structure of 
the Housing Unit as:
The following elements form part of the structure of the Housing Unit(s):
Load-bearing part of floors, staircases and associated guard rails, walls and 
roofs, together with load-bearing retaining walls necessary for providing 
support to the structure;
While it seems to be accepted the retaining wall has moved and likely requires rebuilding, 
what I need to decide is whether this retaining wall is covered by the policy. In order for it to 
be covered by the policy, it needs to be evidenced the wall is a load-bearing retaining wall. 
Ive reviewed the reports provided by Mrs W and Mr W, along with the comments made by 
the loss adjuster. While I note Mr Ws comments about his view the wall is connected to the 
property, none of the expert reports or comments identify this wall to be load-bearing. 
With this in mind, and the requirements of the policy, Im not minded to conclude the wall is 
covered by the policy or that XL Catlin is responsible for the cost of rebuilding it. However, if 
Mrs W and Mr W were to provide further evidence to show the wall might be covered by the 
policy, I would expect XL Catlin to consider this. However, the purpose of the warranty is to 
put right any defects that are covered by the policy, but this doesnt extend to all defects in 
the property.
I note Mr W has said that he finds it challenging that the policy was in place before he 
purchased the property. But he wasnt provided with the policy documentation until several 
months after theyd moved into the property and the defects had been identified. And it was 
only at this point he discovered what the policy covered. While I can understand Mrs W and 
Mr Ws frustration with this, ultimately it was likely the developer who selected the insurer to 
provide the warranty, and on what grounds to seek cover. XL Catlin isnt responsible for this. 
It seems clear Mrs W and Mr Ws home isnt free from defects, and I can see from having 
read their submissions this matter is having a significant impact on them. They moved into a 
new home and found it to have a number of issues. Im not unsympathetic to the experience 
theyve had. 
But in making my decision XL Catlin has considered their claims in line with the policy terms, 
Ive balanced the fact the policy only offered a level of cover for certain risks. And these risks 
were clearly set out in the policy terms. Its for the insurer to decide on what basis it is 
prepared to offer cover, although I acknowledge Mrs W and Mr W didnt take the policy out. 
And the policy  like most insurance policies  is not required to take preventative action for 
things that might happen in the future (such as Mrs W and Mr Ws concerns about the 
retaining wall collapsing). 
If Mrs W and Mr W consider that the building wasnt built in line with the relevant building 
regulations, they may well be best placed to seek independent advice about what  if any  
steps they may have to take separate action against the developer. But for the reasons Ive 
given, Im satisfied XL Catlin has considered their claims and accepted those covered by the 
policy terms. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman