DRN-3122375
The complaint
Miss J complains that Oplo PL Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.
  
What happened
This complaint is about three high cost credit loans Oplo lent to Miss J. The loan details are 
as follows:
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount (£) TermRepayment 
amount (£) End date
1 05/07/2017 2,000 36 months 94.96 13/08/2018
2 13/08/2018 5,000 48 months 202.67 28/10/2019
3 28/10/2019 5,000 60 months 181.84 outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Js complaint and thought the loans shouldnt have 
been given. Oplo disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J could 
repay the loans without getting further into debt or suffering adverse financial consequences. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oplo should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oplo was required to establish 
whether Miss J could repay the loans without suffering adverse financial consequences  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
I accept that the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could make their repayments without an adverse financial impact. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. This is because it is expected that the consumer should 
be able to make repayments on time, throughout the term of the loan, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint, Oplo has provided evidence to show 
that before lending any of the loans, it searched Miss Js credit file and took into account her 
monthly income and expenses.
I think these checks went far enough for loan 1 but I dont think Oplo reacted appropriately to 
the information it found. The credit file results showed that Miss J was borrowing from at 
least three other high cost credit lenders at the time. Miss J was also using large portions of 
her credit card limits, as well as being overdrawn on both her bank accounts.
Miss Js monthly credit commitments, including the repayment of this loan was around £950 
and she still had to repay the overdraft debts on her accounts. I think Oplo ought to have 
been aware that Miss J was likely reliant on credit and that over the 36-month term, shed 
struggle to keep up repayments of the loan as she was paying a significant portion of her 
£2,742 income towards credit.
Miss J was about a third of the term into repaying loan 1 when she borrowed loan 2. Loan 2 
was more than double loan 1 and it was also for a longer term. Based on the loan term and 
the fact that Miss J was returning for a larger loan, I think Oplo should have taken it checks 
further by independently verifying some of the information Miss J provided through payslips 
or bank statements for example.
Oplo wasnt required to review bank statements but I think for loans 2 and 3, it needed to 
show that it took reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Miss J could sustain her loan 
repayments without further borrowing throughout the term. I dont think it did that.
Miss J has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time and I can see that 
in the month before loan 2 was granted, Miss Js income was round £2,798 and she 
received benefits of around £82. The bank statements also show that Miss J gambled over 
£1,000 in the same month and had at least £650 outstanding to other lenders and was 
incurring overdraft fees. Proportionate checks would have shown Oplo that Miss J wasnt in 
a position to sustain the repayments and it shouldnt have lent.
Loan 3 was lent around a year into Miss Js repayment of loan 2 and looking at her bank 
statements from the time, she continued to gamble and was still repaying at least three other 
high cost credit lenders. Again, I dont think Oplo should have lent her this loan and it needs 
to put things right.
  Putting things right
add the total capital amount Miss J received for loans 1 to 3;
remove all interest and charges applied to the loans;
treat all payments made by Miss J as capital repayments towards the loans;
if this results in an overpayment pay interest of 8% simple a year on any 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding, Oplo should come to a suitable repayment 
arrangement with Miss J.
remove any negative information about the loans from Miss Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give Miss J a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Js complaint. Oplo PL Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman