DRN-3784679
The complaint
Mr J complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) will not refund the money he lost when 
he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In early December 2021, Mr J was called by someone claiming to be from the fraud team of 
another bank (N)  but who, it transpires, was actually a scammer. They convinced him 
they were part of Ns security team and were looking into fraud between the banks, claiming 
his accounts were at risk. Mr J tried to validate the call by ringing Ns official number. It 
seems the scammer tricked him by staying on the line, so it appeared they picked up the call 
to this number. They also sent texts from a spoofed bank number and created fake records 
of a safe account and fraud refund. 
At the scammers behest, Mr J made numerous payments from several bank accounts. Just 
over a week into the scam, he attempted a payment of £54,500 from his YBS savings 
account to another account in his name. This was returned. He then attempted a payment 
for the same amount  but to a different payee. YBS called him to check the details of this 
payment before processing it. 
The next day, Mr J realised it was a scam and informed YBS. It tried to recover the funds 
from the recipient but was unsuccessful. And it said it wouldnt refund him directly as, when it 
had called him to check the payment, he had said he knew the recipient  and confirmed he 
wasnt moving the funds to an alleged safe account.
Unhappy with this, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
it. He thought YBS should have questioned Mr J further  but wasnt persuaded this would 
have prevented the scam. Mr J has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. In 
summary, he has explained why he was so convinced by the scam. He thinks YBSs 
intervention should have gone further. He says that, had it involved the police, he would 
have told them the real reason for the payment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
It isnt in dispute that, although he was tricked, Mr J authorised this payment. He 
requested it using his legitimate security credentials. The starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed. 
However, Ive considered whether YBS should have done more to prevent Mr J from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
It isnt in dispute that the payment of £54,500 was unusual given that it did trigger the 
banks fraud prevention systems and was flagged for further enquiry. Accordingly, its 
just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that 
intervention. And if not, whether that failure contributed to the loss.
When YBS did intervene, it called and explained it was seeing a lot of scams 
involving payments to third parties. When asked if he knew the recipient well, Mr J 
said the named recipient was his daughter-in-law. YBS said it wanted to check if it 
was someone hed met online, or someone asking him to send money to a safe 
account. And Mr J confirmed it wasnt. But this wasnt true. The recipient was 
unknown to Mr J. And he had been told he needed to move his funds to safe 
accounts with various banks. 
I would have expected YBSs questioning to have gone further. For example, it could 
have asked more about the purpose of the payment. But I have to consider whether 
such questioning would likely have uncovered the scam. On balance, Im not 
persuaded it would have. The messages Ive seen show the scammer was heavily 
coaching Mr J on what to say. It seems he had a cover story for if he was questioned 
further. And so, overall, Im not persuaded further reasonable enquiries by the bank 
would have prevented the loss.
I appreciate Mr J has drawn a parallel with a case study on our website involving a 
consumer giving a cover story. As he has acknowledged, we consider each case on 
its individual merits. And the banking protocol which hes referred to from that case 
study doesnt apply here, as those are provisions for consumers making branch 
payments. But, regardless of the payment method, similar principles apply regarding 
what type of questioning should be employed when a payment is identified as 
suspicious. And I have explained why Im not persuaded such questioning would 
have uncovered the scam. Similarly, I therefore do not think YBS would have had 
reason to involve the police. 
We know certain scams often involve consumers being given a cover story. That 
doesnt negate the banks duty to make reasonable enquiries. But I do think it was 
harder for YBS to protect Mr J as a result of his responses. 
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation Mr J finds himself in, and recognising 
that he has lost a lot of money, Im not persuaded YBS taking different action or more 
steps would have prevented the loss; that is Im satisfied Mr J wouldnt have been 
forthcoming and he still would have made the payments he did.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman