DRN-2418286
The complaint
Mrs A, on behalf of the estate of Mr A, says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), trading as TSB, 
mis-sold Mr A a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy, which ran alongside a credit card Mr A took 
out in October 1997. The PPI was added to Mr As credit card account sometime later in 
March 1999.
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mr As outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr A that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent 
before applying PPI to his account. Lloyds says it would have done this. But the sale took 
place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much information. Because 
of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Lloyds cases involving various methods of sale 
from around the same period Mr A would have been sold his PPI. Using what I know 
generally of Lloyds sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr A would 
have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Lloyds would have gained his 
consent before adding it to his credit card account. 
In addition to this, I can see the PPI appeared on Mr As credit card statements as 
PAYMENTS INSURANCE - PREMIUM and I think this is quite prominent. So, I think its 
likely Mr A would have seen this and if he wasnt sure what it was for, I would have expected 
him to query the transactions with Lloyds once they appeared. 
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr A was aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds doesnt know how the policy was sold and whether it gave advice or not, so its 
reviewed the sale as though it did give Mr A advice. This puts more responsibility on Lloyds 
 it means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mr A. So, Ive considered the case on 
the basis that advice was given.
Based on what Mrs As told us about Mr As circumstances at the time, the policy appears to 
have been suitable for him. I say this because from the information Ive seen, Mr A was 
eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that 
might have made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing 
medical condition, or unusual employment circumstances.
Mrs A says Mr A was entitled to six months sick pay from his employer and that he had a 
car worth £4,000 which he could have sold. Mrs A also says she had considerable savings 
at the time. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs A has said, but the policy would have paid out on top of 
anything Mr A received from his employer and potentially for longer. And Mr A could have 
claimed again subject to a requalification period. I also think its more likely than not that 
Mr A would have wanted to avoid selling his car to make his repayments if he could. And 
while Mrs A may have offered to help, circumstances could have changed, which meant her 
help could not always be guaranteed. So, I dont think this shows the policy wasnt right for 
Mr A and I think he could have found the cover useful.
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mr A. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr A, Lloyds also needed to give him 
enough information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mr A, I dont think better information would have made a difference to his decision to buy 
it. 
It follows, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, so Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to the estate of Mr A. 
Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to the estate of Mr A any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman