DRN-3402732
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) misled them about their 
travel insurance cover.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have travel insurance cover with an insurer through their packaged bank 
account with RBS. 
Mr and Mrs B were on holiday in the UK. They had a helicopter flight booked to take them to 
a nearby island. Unfortunately, the flight was delayed due to bad weather. Therefore, Mr and 
Mrs B had to pay for an additional nights accommodation. They submitted a claim to the 
insurer.
The insurer turned down the claim because it said the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs B for 
delayed departures within the UK. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy about this, as they thought 
RBSs website had led them to believe theyd be covered. They brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think RBSs website 
describing the cover was misleading. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B accept the policy doesnt cover their delayed departure. However, they say 
RBS gave them misleading information about the cover they had. 
Ive looked at RBSs website, and I see theres a support centre which includes questions 
and answers about the available products. 
In response to the question I am a packaged account customer, does my policy cover 
holidays in the UK?, the website answers Yes, provided your UK holiday involved pre-
booked accommodation of at least two nights and is at least 25 miles from your home.
I agree with our investigator that this statement is factually correct, as the majority of the 
risks covered by the policy includes trips within the UK. Although the policy doesnt cover 
delayed departures within the UK, I wouldnt expect the website to provide this level of detail 
about the cover. This information was in the policy terms.  
Mr and Mrs B have referred to the renewal schedule they received from RBS, which included 
the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). This information didnt bring the 
exclusion to their notice. However, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to do so. Thats because 
the IPID gives a summary of important and/or unusual information about a policy, and 
doesnt include every policy term and exclusion. The exclusion that the insurer relied upon to 
turn down Mr and Mrs Bs claim isnt particularly unusual for these policies, and so I wouldnt 
have expected RBS to have specifically brought it to Mr and Mrs Bs attention.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but I dont find that RBS misled them 
about the cover they held.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman