DRN-3892814
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Covea Insurance plc avoided their motor insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay for their repairs following an accident.   
Mrs H is a named driver on Mr Hs policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with Covea through an online comparison site and 
then completed the purchase over the phone. The policy was then renewed. When Mrs H 
had an accident, they tried to claim on the policy. 
Covea then found that hed answered the question it asked about driving offences incorrectly 
both when he took out the policy and at renewal. And it considered this to be a careless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy from inception, decline to 
repair their car and, because the policy had been used, to ask for payment of the 
outstanding premium.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
She thought Covea had asked clear questions about the previous driving offences, but she 
thought Mr H had answered these incorrectly at inception and renewal of the policy. But she 
thought that if Mr H had answered correctly at inception, then Covea would still have offered 
cover for himself alone. So she thought it had unfairly avoided the policy from inception. 
To put things right, she thought Covea should re-write the original policy in Mr Hs name only 
and remove all avoidance information recorded about Mr H and Mrs H from inception to 
renewal. And she thought Covea should pay Mr H £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset this error caused. 
But she thought Covea wouldnt have offered cover at all if Mr H had correctly answered the 
question about previous motoring offences at renewal. And so she thought it was entitled to 
avoid the policy from this date and decline to repair their car. But she thought Covea wasnt 
entitled to retain the premiums. So she thought Covea should refund the premiums since 
renewal.
Covea replied that it thought the policy should have been avoided from inception as Mrs H 
was driving at the time of the accident. But it agreed to return the premiums to Mr H as the 
misrepresentation had been careless. Covea asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said his application for cover and at renewal that neither he nor Mrs H had any previous 
driving convictions.  
Ive looked at the question that Mr H was asked on the online comparison site they used:
Convictions
Have you had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or 
bans in the past 5 years? YES or NO.
Further information was provided to help consumers answer the question correctly:
Offence codes and penalty points are recorded against your driving record. Details for the 
last four years can be found by visiting www.gov.uk/view-driving-licence. However, please 
note that insurance providers require you to declare up to five years driving history.
I think this was a clear question asked by Covea through the comparison site Mr H used. But 
I dont think Mr H and Mrs H took reasonable care to answer this question correctly. This is 
because they both had convictions for speeding within the past five years. Mrs H has 
explained that they thought they need not declare any convictions as they had paid the fines. 
Covea has provided us with evidence from its underwriting guide to show that if the question 
had been answered correctly, then cover wouldnt have been offered for both drivers. But it 
would still have offered cover for Mr H as the sole policyholder. And so Covea said that it 
was entitled to avoid the policy from inception. 
But I dont agree. Our approach is that where the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless, were unlikely to say this is unfair. But where the misrepresentation was careless, 
we often dont think this is fair. 
Under CIDRA if the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can only avoid the contract 
if it wouldnt have offered it on any terms. So we think if the insurer would have not insured 
the named driver, but would have still insured the policyholder, it cant avoid the policy, and 
instead should amend the terms by removing the named driver from cover.
Mr Hs misrepresentation at inception was careless. So I think Covea unfairly avoided the 
policy from inception to the date of renewal. I think that, under CIDRA, it should have 
removed Mrs H from the policy. And, to put things right, I think it should now rewrite the 
policy from inception to renewal with Mr H as the sole policyholder. It should remove records 
of the avoidance for this period. And, because this error has caused Mr H trouble and upset, 
I think it should pay him £150 compensation, in keeping with our published guidance. 
Ill now consider what happened at renewal of the policy. On the first page of the renewal 
documents Covea warned Mr H that,
It is important that the information you provide throughout the duration of your policy is 
accurate. Failure to disclose accurate and complete information to the best of your 
knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully 
paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null and void and treated as if it never 
existed.Mr H was told to check the policy details and to let Covea know of any changes as this could 
affect his cover. And I can see that on the Statement of Fact no penalties, convictions, 
endorsements or disqualifications were disclosed for Mr H or Mrs H. 
Mr H now had two motoring conviction and Mrs H had three within the past five years. And 
so I think Mr H should have reasonably informed Covea that the Statement of Fact was 
incorrect. But he didnt. Coveas underwriting guide shows that it wouldnt have offered cover 
at all if these convictions had been disclosed. And so I think Mr H made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
Covea has decided that this was a careless misrepresentation. I agree that Mr Hs 
misrepresentation was careless because Mrs H has explained that they had thought they 
need not declare the convictions as they had paid their fines and they thought they had 
expired after a year.
As Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA. As Covea wouldnt have offered cover at 
all without the misrepresentation, Im satisfied that, in accordance with CIDRA, Covea is 
entitled to avoid the policy from the renewal date.
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed from the renewal date, Covea 
does not have to deal with Mr Hs claim following the accident. But it must reimburse the 
premiums he has paid since renewal. Covea said it may be liable under the Road Traffic Act 
for the other drivers repairs. And it may look to recover these costs from Mr H. But I havent 
considered that further here. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Covea to rely on it to avoid Mr Hs policy from the renewal date produces the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Covea Insurance plc to do the following:
1. Re-write the policy from inception to renewal in Mr Hs name only
2. Remove any policy avoidance information recorded by Covea regarding Mr H and Mrs H 
from inception to the date of renewal
3. Refund all policy premiums paid by Mr H since renewal, as its already agreed to do
4. Pay Mr H £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to him by 
Covea incorrectly recording policy avoidance information since inception.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman