DRN-3177444
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc didnt close his accounts as requested which he says 
resulted in charges being incurred and adverse information being recorded on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M has explained that he visited a branch of TSB in September 2019 to ask that all his 
accounts be closed. He says that he advised TSB of his upcoming change of address and 
that he wouldnt be able to continue banking with it hence his request to close his accounts. 
He says that after this a small transaction was recorded on his credit card which then 
incurred interest and charges and adverse information was recorded on his credit file. He 
says this shouldnt have happened had his accounts been closed as requested. He says that 
although the balance has been cleared his credit file has been adversely affect having a 
negative impact on his ability to get further credit.
TSB says that Mr M switched his current account in April 2019, but it had no record of him 
closing his credit card or savings accounts or changing his address. TSB said that Mr Ms 
credit card balance was brought to zero on 2 September 2019 but following this, transactions 
were made in September and October 2020 to a retailer. It said it had nothing to suggest the 
payments were fraudulent and that it sent Mr M copies of his statements to the address it 
had on file and emailed these. It said as the minimum payment amounts werent made 
letters about the arrears on his account were sent and then a default letter was issued in 
February 2021. It says it also tried to contact Mr M by phone and text. TSB says a business 
decision was made to write off the outstanding debt and as this was less than £100 no 
default was recorded. However, it said the other information recorded about late payments 
was an accurate reflection of the status of Mr Ms account.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that Mr Ms action in September 2019 
of clearing his credit card balance looked like he intended to close his account. This didnt 
happen and he said it was Mr Ms decision to start spending on the account and given this it 
was his responsibility to make the required repayments. He said that although 
correspondence was sent to an old address, it was also sent by email and contact was 
attempted by phone and text. Therefore, he thought TSB had done enough to make Mr M 
aware of the arrears and status of his account. He noted the small balance and thought it 
reasonable no default had been recorded however he found that the other information 
recorded by TSB was accurate and so he didnt find he could recommend this be removed.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that he had made the request to 
close his accounts and that it was concerning TSB had no record of this. He said TSB had 
confirmed to him on a call in July 2021 that he was in branch and looked like he was 
intending to close his account as he withdrew funds and settled accounts. Mr M said that 
had his instructions been properly acted on the issue wouldnt have arisen. He said emails 
sent after this time went to his junk has he believed his accounts to be closed and that he 
only received a cold call from the bank which he wasnt expecting and so didnt continue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is upset that adverse information has been recorded on his credit file about an account 
he thought had been closed. I can understand why he is upset by this. However, for me to 
require TSB to take any further action I would need to be satisfied that it had done 
something wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.
In this case the balance that accrued on Mr Ms account was written off and no default was 
applied and so the outstanding issue is the other adverse information about late payments 
recorded on Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M explained he visited a branch in September 2019 to close his accounts. TSB has 
confirmed that Mr Ms current account balance had been closed before that time. TSB has 
said that Mr M cleared the balance on his credit card account on 2 September 2019, but it 
had no record of the request for the account to be closed. Unfortunately, I cannot say for 
certain what was discussed, and as TSB has no record of the closure request I have 
considered the actions taken after this time.
Mr M didnt use his credit card account for around a year after September 2019 and was 
issued statements in October and December 2019. At this time the balance was £0, and no 
further statements were issued until payments were made from the account to a retailer in 
September and October 2020. At this time statements were issued setting out the minimum 
payment required. As Mr M had made more than one transaction on the account I think it 
reasonable that he would have been aware of this and as such that he would need to make 
repayments. Mr M didnt make the required repayments on his account. 
TSB has said Mr Ms address hadnt been updated and so statements were sent to the 
address it had on file. Letters about the arrears on the account were also sent to this 
address. As the address hadnt been updated I cannot say that TSB was wrong to do this. 
However, I accept that as Mr M had moved he may not have received these statements and 
letters. That said, TSB has also provided details showing that it emailed Mr M statements 
between October and December 2020 and tried to contact him by phone in December 2020, 
January 2021 and March 2021 and sent text messages from March 2021. I note Mr Ms 
comments about this contact but based on the information I have seen I find that TSB took 
reasonable steps to contact Mr M and to inform him of the status of his account.
Overall, I note Mr Ms comment that had the account been closed the issue wouldnt have 
arisen. However, I do not have clear evidence of the closure request and as Mr M made 
transactions on the account I think it reasonable that he would have expected to have to 
make the repayments. TSB provided Mr M with information about the status of his account 
and I think it did do enough to inform him of the situation. As Mr M didnt make the required 
payments this was reported to the credit reference agencies. As I have nothing to suggest 
the information reported was incorrect, I do not find in this case I require TSB to remove this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman