DRN-3625336
The complaint
Mr D has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund him for disputed cash withdrawals 
and debit card transactions in 2021.
What happened
In 2021 Mr D complained to HSBC about numerous transactions on his account hed not 
made. These included retail transactions, online purchases and cash withdrawals and 
amounted to a considerable amount.
HSBC reviewed the evidence and could see Mr D had two different debit cards during this 
period. There was a mix of genuine transactions in with those Mr D disputed. HSBC didnt 
believe the transaction evidence showed someone else made these transactions.
As Mr D was unhappy with this, he brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He 
also talked about being mugged and having his card and PIN stolen and then his card 
returned to him. Mr D confirmed hed reported this to the police.
Our investigator reviewed the detailed evidence along with Mr Ds testimony. She didnt 
believe it was most likely that the transactions were unauthorised. She told Mr D she wasnt 
going to ask HSBC to do anything further.
Still unhappy, Mr D has asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ds complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ds case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what HSBC and Mr D have told us.
We have a timeline of events which is the group of disputed transactions from February to 
March 2021. Mr D has told us of fraud and personal assault which dates back a number of 
years. He has also made repeated allegations against certain individuals. I cant look at 
transactions within the time period Mr D is fully concerned about. I can only look at those 
that were the subject of HSBCs investigation in 2021.
I can see from the evidence that its clear how the disputed transactions were all made. In 
the case of cash withdrawals, generally balance checks were carried out before withdrawals 
and on one occasion the wrong PIN was used.
From what I know of Mr D, I wouldnt be surprised if he found PINs confusing and 
occasionally difficult to recall.
There are a few things which suggest Mr D may have known who he believes carried out 
these transactions. Our investigator contacted the local police. They confirmed Mr D had 
made a complaint about fraud, but they werent able to continue their investigations as Mr D 
didnt follow these up.
Ive read Mr Ds submissions to us carefully. Its clear he has serious concerns about what 
happened. I can also see he has different health issues. Our investigator has asked HSBC 
to put plans in place for Mr D to help him use his account safely. If these plans are 
successful, this may minimise concerns Mr D has about his card being taken from him and 
returned.
However I cant be sure thats what happened here. I think overall its more likely on balance 
that Mr D has authorised the disputed transactions himself. I say this for the following 
reasons:
cash machines and shops where disputed transactions were made match those 
locations that Mr D regularly used himself; 
transaction evidence shows genuine undisputed transactions amongst those Mr D 
disputes (specifically on 12 March 2021); 
disputed transactions were made using different cards; and
HSBC were able to specifically discuss one transaction Mr D disputed for £135. The 
retailer was able to confirm all the relevant details, including mobile phone and 
address, belonged to Mr D.
I appreciate the depth of Mr Ds feelings on this issue, but I dont think the evidence matches 
what he believes took place. Having considered all the evidence provided to me, Im not 
going to ask HSBC to refund Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman