DRN-2553167
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr L under a hire purchase agreement with Northridge Finance 
that he signed in May 2019. He contacted the dealer about a knocking noise from the front 
left of the car in June 2019 and it agreed to repair the car  but there was a delay in that 
happening so it wasnt repaired until August 2019.
He said that the car seemed to have been fixed but the noise from the front left of the car 
began to reappear intermittently and then the frequency increased. He complained to the 
dealer in October 2019 and then to Northridge Finance  and he said that he wanted to 
reject the car. The dealer said that this was a new fault and then agreed to inspect the car in 
December 2019 but no fault was found so Northridge didnt agree to his request to reject the 
car. 
Mr L complained to this service and the car stayed with the dealer until it was returned to 
Mr L in October 2020 - and two days later he took the car for an MOT test, which it failed 
because of damage to the right rear coil spring.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply so he thought that it would be fair for 
Mr L to be able to reject it. He said that Mr L had covered around 7,000 miles in the 19 
months hed had the car so he thought that it would be reasonable for him to pay for the 
mileage that hed covered and that Northridge Finance should retain seven monthly 
payments that Mr L had made but should return all the rest, with interest. He said that Mr L 
should also receive his £100.03 deposit back, with interest, the agreement should show as 
settled and any negative information should be removed from Mr Ls credit file, and 
Northridge Finance should collect the car. He also thought that it would be fair for it to pay 
him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced  and that it should 
pay for the cost of the failed MOT test.
Northridge Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that the rear coil springs are wholly unrelated to the brake discs and no issue was reported 
with them until after the MOT test in October 2020, which was unrelated to the supply of the 
car in June 2019. It says that there is no material evidence which affirms the issues with the 
rear coil springs were related to the supply of the goods so it has proposed an independent 
inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Northridge Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr L was about three and a half years old, had been 
driven for 31,035 miles and had a price of £9,013;
the hire purchase agreement shows that Mr L made an advance payment, in cash, of 
£100.03 and agreed to make 49 monthly payments of £209.83 and a payment of 
£210.83 for the car to be supplied to him; 
its clear that there was a fault with the car soon after it was supplied to Mr L and the 
dealer repaired it in August 2019;
Mr L says that the repair seemed to have fixed the fault for a few weeks but the noise 
from the front left of the car began to reappear intermittently and then the frequency 
increased;
he complained to the dealer in October 2019 and it inspected the car in December 
2019 but no fault was found  but it cleaned the brake pads and discs and said that 
there was a small lip on the disc which could have been causing the intermittent 
noise;
the car stayed with the dealer until October 2020 and Mr L says that the dealer told 
him that it had done a mock MOT test on the car before it was returned to him to 
make sure that it was road-worthy  but the car failed an MOT test two days after it 
had been returned to him because of an issue with the rear coil springs;
I dont consider that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L 
and he complained to the dealer about some noise issues, it repaired the car but -
other than for a period of about two weeks after that repair - Mr L says that the car 
has continued to have noise issues;
the car was with the dealer between December 2019 and October 2020 and two 
days after it was returned to Mr L it failed an MOT test because of an issue with its 
rear coil springs;
Im not persuaded that an independent inspection of the car is likely to be able to 
show whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr L 
but I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was 
reasonable for him to expect it to be  and, for that reason, that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr L to be able 
to reject the car.Putting things right
I find that Northridge Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from Mr L  both at no cost to him. I find that it should also record the 
agreement as settled on Mr Ls credit file and remove any adverse information about the 
agreement that its recorded on his credit file. The agreement shows that Mr L made an 
advance payment, in cash, of £100.03 for the car  I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Northridge Finance to refund that advance payment to him, with interest.
The cars mileage at the time of the failed MOT test in October 2020 was 37,995 - so Mr L 
had been able to use the car to drive nearly 7,000 miles between May 2019, when it was 
supplied to him, and October 2020  but its clear that he didnt use it between December 
2019, when it was returned to the dealer, and October 2020. I agree with our investigator 
that its fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to keep the first seven monthly payments 
that Mr L made under the agreement as payment for the use that hes had from the car but 
that it should refund to him any other monthly payments that hes made, with interest. 
Mr L paid £30 for the failed MOT test. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Northridge Finance to reimburse that amount to him, with interest. These events have clearly 
caused distress and inconvenience for Mr L. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable 
for Northridge Finance to pay him £200 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and I order N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as 
Northridge Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr L  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr L the advance payment that he made for the car.
3. Refund to Mr L all but the first seven monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement.
4. Pay £30 to Mr L to reimburse him for the cost of the failed MOT test.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Record the agreement as settled on Mr Ls credit file and remove any adverse 
information about the agreement that its recorded on his credit file.
7. Pay £200 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Northridge Finance must give Mr L a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman