DRN-3574132
The complaint
Mr K complains that when he tried to make a large payment through Monzo Bank Ltds 
(Monzo) banking app he received an alert which read Stop dont pay. In particular he 
objects to the phase Its very likely a scam.
What happened
Following the receipt of an alert on Monzos banking app when trying to make a payment Mr 
K called the merchant who he was making the payment to and asked it if they had been 
charged with fraud before providing it with his payment details and completing the payment 
over the phone.
Mr K complained as he failed to see how this approach is more secure than the payment via 
the app and felt that such conversations could have a negative effect on the relationship 
between the merchant and the customer. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us and would like a ruling on the criteria needed for the bank 
to let customers know they are being scammed.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that Monzo 
acted fairly by having systems in place which are designed to raise awareness and to 
prevent their customers being victims of a scam or fraudulent activity. 
Overall Mr K understood our adjudicators view but said that their findings do not mention 
fairness in relation towards the merchant and their brand and requested a final decision on 
the point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how it checks or determines whether a 
transaction is fraudulent. Ultimately, how a bank runs its business and the processes it has 
in place to alleviate risk is a commercial decision and isnt something for me to get involved 
with. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or 
disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr K has experienced and see if Monzo has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr K back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
And while I wouldnt tell a business how or what systems to put in place to check for 
fraudulent activity  I would expect it to put safeguards in place to protect it and its 
customers from such activity.
I accept Mr K didnt appreciate receiving the alert when it was regarding a merchant he 
considered reputable. But receiving the alert didnt stop Mr K from being able to make the 
transaction  if anything it made him think again about the financial risks before continuing  
which I believe wouldve been the point. And I think this is a perfectly fair and reasonable 
way to safeguard both Monzo and Mr Ks interests. So I cant say Monzo has done anything 
wrong here. 
Mr K asks whether this type of alert is fair to the merchant. But the merchant isnt the one 
complaining here. My job here is to assess whether Monzo treated Mr K fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances of this complaint and in this case I think it did.  
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman