DRN-3972874
The complaint
Miss T complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby), gave her a 
loan when she was not able to afford it. 
What happened
Miss T was advanced a loan in March 2022. Miss T applied for £800 and was approved for a 
£600 loan repayable over six months.
loan amount agreement date number of monthly 
instalmentsrepayment
£600.00 16 March 2022 6 £195.99
Based on the information I have from Shelby it seems that Miss T paid nothing towards the 
loan up to July 2022. And Shelby has told us that the outstanding balance in July 2022 was 
£1,175.94. The current situation with the loan is unknown to me but I anticipate Miss T still 
owes Shelby the balance. 
Shelby issued a final response letter (FRL) dated June 2022. It did not uphold her complaint 
and gave details about some of the information it had obtained before lending such as her 
credit situation from credit reports it had undertaken. Miss T, then referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our adjudicators looked at it. She thought 
that Shelby had not done anything wrong. Miss T disagreed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Miss T could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ts 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss T. These factors include:
Miss T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss T. But as Miss T took one loan 
this is inapplicable. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss T was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint.
Miss T declared she had a monthly income of £1,906 from full time employment and she 
also declared monthly outgoings of £1,366. So, on Miss Ts own figures when applying for 
the loan Miss T was saying to Shelby she had a disposable income of £540 each month 
from which to afford the loan. Miss T had said she lived at home with her parents. 
As part of the affordability assessment, Shelby checked Miss Ts income with a credit 
reference agency. Shelby also carried out further checks on Miss Ts expenditure  it 
considered data provided by the Office of National Statistics as well as what it saw on her 
credit report. After carrying out these checks, it came to a slightly lower figure than the one 
Miss T had provided for it. And so, as is Shelbys policy, it used the higher declared 
expenditure figure of £1,366. So, the disposable income was £540. 
In addition, before the loan was approved, Shelby says it also carried out a credit search. 
Looking at the credit file, Shelby knew Miss T had overall debts of around £28,104 of which 
£17,512 was loan and instalment accounts plus Miss Ts record showed around £10,000 on 
revolving credit accounts (which usually includes credit cards). 
I have reviewed the credit search results Shelby carried out and I have seen that Miss T had 
8 credit cards ranging from a balance of £167 on a limit of £250, to £3,492 on a limit of 
£3,500.
Miss T also had a hire Purchase (HP) agreement for motor finance. That had commenced 
on 1 November 2019 for 60 months and so was due to end 1 November 2024. It was 
originally a balance of £25,436, and at the time of the credit search in March 2022 it was just 
under £14,000. The cost each month for that was £425. As well as the credit cards she had a mail order account with a very low balance, and three 
unsecured loans. Two were modest. One had a balance of around £248 (repayment cost 
was unclear from that report Id been given) and one had a repayment of £177 a month on it. 
The other was more substantial as it had started in September 2021 and was for 24 months 
costing Miss T £138 a month. The last two here are mentioned again later in this decision. 
 
Miss T had no recent defaults, had no account registering as having arrears and was up to 
date with her bank accounts and utility accounts. Miss T also had no entries suggesting any 
insolvencies and no Judgments against her.
Overall, the debt situation did not look as though it was unmanageable and so Shelby 
approved the loan. The loan of £600 for a new customer over a six month term was relatively 
modest and so I consider Shelby carried out proportionate checks.
Miss T has mentioned that she had other loans and other complaints which had resulted in 
more favourable outcomes for her. So, she was questioning the adjudicators view on this 
complaint. 
I have had a look to see if any of the other complaints relate to loans taken about the same 
times as this Shelby loan and therefore may have had a bearing on this complaint. 
One lending relationship ended in February 2021 and so has no bearing on this complaint.
Another related to a loan taken in September 2021 and likely was one of the ones that had 
registered with the credit search Shelby had carried out and to which I have referred above. 
It was for £2,000 spread over 24 months. And so was quite a different loan application to a 
£600 loan over six months as she made to Shelby. So that complaint would have been 
looked at with those details applicable in those circumstances. 
One related to a loan applied for and approved on 25 February 2022 and for which Miss T 
was due to make five monthly repayments (£177 a month). This was one of the ones that 
had registered with the credit search Shelby had carried out and to which I have referred 
above. So, it was known to Shelby when it made its lending decision for this March 2022 
loan. 
 
One related to a loan applied for with a different lender in April 2022 which would have been 
after Miss T had taken this loan with Shelby and so irrelevant for the purposes of this 
complaint.  
My view remains the same  the application for the Shelby loan was met with proportionate 
checks and that Miss T could afford it. I do not uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman