DRN-3454857
The complaint
Mrs N complains about a bridging loan from by Aura Finance Limited. She said it knowingly 
lent less than she needed to do work, refused to allow changes to the title on the property, 
and acted aggressively in enforcing a sale. She said this all cost her around £500,000.
What happened
This complaint is about bridging loan taken out on behalf of Mrs N. The property in question 
was owned by her and was her former home, so this is her complaint. Mrs N is an elderly, 
disabled lady who lives in a residential care setting. This complaint has been brought by her 
attorneys. As her son, Mr N, has taken the lead in this complaint, I will refer to him below. 
Mr N said Aura had profiteered, and made over £200,000 interest over two years on a 
bridging loan of around £900,000 on Mrs Ns flat. Mr N said if Aura had acted properly, the 
loan would have been repaid well within nine months and the flat would have sold before the 
pandemic, for around £400,000 more than it eventually realised. 
Mr N said the loan was to clear an existing loan on the property, to pay Mrs Ns care fees, 
and to cover the cost of completing refurbishment to the flat. The loan was interest only, and 
the flat was to be sold once refurbishment was complete. Mr N said Aura knowingly lent less 
than was required to complete these works, meaning he had to raise further funds elsewhere 
before the work could be completed. And he said Aura refused to allow his mother to add 
him to the title deeds, which would have enabled him to raise finance against the property. 
Mr N said that then, at the height of the covid-19 crisis. Aura threatened to call in a receiver if 
the price of the flat was not drastically reduced. Although Mrs N did make a substantial 
reduction in the price, Aura still began possession proceedings. 
Mr N said the flat finally sold two days before a court hearing, for £1.6 million. But he felt that 
the buyer would have paid £2m if Aura hadnt forced a price reduction. Mr N said Mrs N had 
lost £530,000 as a result of Auras conduct, so Aura should compensate her for the financial 
loss and stress caused.
Aura didnt accept that it had made the mistakes Mr N attributed to it. It said the original loan 
application was for £1.1 million, based on a property value of £2 million. Its internal valuers 
suggested the property value was £1.5 million, but Aura then instructed an external 
valuation, which came back at £1.45 million. Aura was only able to lend £980,000 in total, 
based on the valuation it instructed. Aura said this money was intended to cover £795,000 of 
a pre-existing loan, care home costs, and to complete refurbishment on the property. Its 
valuers had estimated a cost of £25,000 to finish the works. 
Aura said that if Mr N had thought the loan wasnt enough to complete the works, then he 
ought to have raised that concern before signing. Aura said it had no reason to suspect that 
the loan wouldnt be enough to cover all the purposes that Mr N had set out.
The amount Aura lent also included all the interest due over a 12 month term. Interest costs 
were around £8,800 per month, refundable if the flat sold before the end of the term.
Repayment was due on 4 April 2020, with the balance to be paid through a sale of the 
property, as Mrs N no longer lived there and had no plans to return. The loan included 
conditions that if an offer hadnt been accepted on the property four months after the loan 
was taken, then the asking price had to be reduced to a price agreed with Aura, so that the 
property could sell before the end of the loan term. 
Aura said it hadnt agreed to put Mr N on the title deeds of the property after the loan was 
taken, because it was concerned that issues might arise if Mrs N were to pass away during 
the term of the loan. It said that when Mr N signed the loan documents, he must have been 
envisaging a sale well within the loans term, as that was the basis on which the loan was set 
up. And Aura said it simply didnt know why Mr N would then say that a further £70,000 was 
needed to complete the works. 
Aura said it hadnt acted in a threatening manner over the sale of the property. But it was 
aware that Mrs N needed the money tied up in this flat, to pay for her care home. It wanted 
to make sure that this money was realised through a prompt sale, not eaten up by extended 
payments of interest on its loan. It, unfortunately, felt it had good reason (based on its 
valuation of the property) to consider that the flat was for sale at a price that wasnt likely to 
be achieved. And, although this was a condition of the loan, the price wasnt reduced to an 
amount that Aura thought could be achieved until the end of 2020. 
Aura didnt think the problem here was the pandemic, because the local property market 
never closed between February 2020 and eventual redemption of the loan in March 2021. 
And it said the refurbishment and sale should, in any event, have been completed months 
before the first pandemic lockdown began. 
Aura also said Mr N had failed to engage meaningfully with it. It accepted that it had sent a 
mystery shopper to view the property, but didnt agree that this was unethical. 
Aura wouldnt pay anything for this complaint. It didnt think it should have to. 
Our investigator said Aura had instructed a surveyor who was a member of the appropriate 
professional body, who visited and inspected the flat, and compared it to four other similar 
properties in the area, before arriving at a valuation. She understood Mr N believed the flat 
was worth significantly more, but she didnt think it was unreasonable for Aura to rely on the 
report carried out independently by an expert in the field, when it assessed the risks and 
decided what it was prepared to lend. So she couldnt say Aura undervalued the property. 
Our investigator noted this was always intended to be a short term loan. She didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Aura to say it should be repaid as agreed. She said the loan was 
written on the basis the property would be sold well before the end of the term. She didnt 
think the pandemic was why the loan terms werent fulfilled within the original twelve months.
Our investigator also didnt think Aura had caused the flat to be sold at undervalue. She 
noted the conditions of the loan required the property to be marketed at a price agreed with 
Aura, after the first four months, and that no offers had been received at the higher sale 
prices. So she said it didnt seem unreasonable for Aura to ask for the price to be reduced to 
secure a sale. She said she couldnt reasonably say Aura shouldve allowed the property to 
remain on the market at a higher asking price until the pandemic was over, because there 
was no certainty as to when the pandemic would be over and when the property market 
would change. And in the meantime interest charges were being incurred. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld.Mr N didnt agree. He said Aura had been selective in the facts it had shared with us. He 
said Aura wouldnt allow him to be added to the title after only two months of the loan, 
although it initially indicated it would agree to this. And he said this was why he hadnt been 
able to get further lending in good time, and complete the works needed to sell. He thought if 
Aura had agreed to this, hed have got further lending by July 2019, the work would have 
been done by August, and hed have had six months to sell before the pandemic hit.
Mr N said this caused Mrs N severe distress, because there was no money to pay for her 
care. And then Aura had engaged in bullying and threats, after the loan was due. He said 
Aura made around £200,000 in interest and Mrs N lost money on a pressurised sale. He 
said his agents had been confident a far higher price could be achieved, given enough time. 
He said that the friends who eventually purchased the flat would certainly have paid more for 
the property, and he could have achieved a sale price of £2 million if it hadnt been for Auras 
threats. He said these threats contravened FCA guidance at the time, that firms were not to 
commence or continue repossession proceedings against customers at this time, given 
the unprecedented uncertainty and upheaval they face, and Government advice on social 
distancing and self-isolation. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that Aura first instructed solicitors to take 
legal action in early November 2020 and a claim was issued in mid-November 2020 with a 
review listed in March 2021. The FCA had issued guidance on 20 November 2020 which 
said firms should not enforce repossession of properties before 31 January 2021 except in 
exceptional circumstances. But Aura wasnt enforcing possession, it had only commenced it. 
And she said she didnt think this is why the flat sold at £1.6 million. Mr N had started at a 
higher price, and reduced gradually. The price achieved was the only offer Mr N got. 
Our investigator said there was no obligation on Aura to consent to Mr N being added to the 
title or the mortgage. And he couldve taken out another loan without being added to the title. 
Our investigator still didnt think Aura had to make any payment to Mrs N.
Mr N said the FCA first published its guidance on 20 March 2020, and that prohibited 
commencing or continuing repossession proceedings before 31 October 2020. Mr N said he 
was talking about this earlier period, when he said Aura made several threats that if he didn't 
reduce the price it would commence proceedings immediately. It also threatened to call in a 
receiver as a means to circumvent the guidance. He said that without those threats he 
wouldnt have reduced the price. 
Mr N was disappointed that we hadnt approached potential witnesses for their testimony. 
And he said that Mrs N wasnt able to take out another loan without him being added to the 
title, because of her age. He repeated that Aura knew from the start that there wasnt 
enough money for the refurbishments. 
Mr N said our service is supposed to be here to protect the public from greedy lenders, but 
we were siding with Aura who had made huge profits on this transaction. Mr N wanted to 
remind us of the vulnerability of Mrs N. And he wanted this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. Before I start, Id like to comment briefly on the nature of our service. We provide an informal 
dispute resolution service, and my duty is to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to a 
complaint. Our service isnt a consumer champion, and we dont take sides. We have to be 
impartial in our approach to complaints.
Mr N also thought that our service should have approached other people involved in this 
matter for their witness statements. But I think Mr N has been the most closely involved in 
this matter, and also that its most likely the other attorney for Mrs N, and the solicitor 
supporting Mr N, would take a similar view of Auras conduct during this matter to Mr N. I 
dont think I ought to delay a resolution in this matter to seek that additional information. I do 
think its appropriate to decide this case now.
Aura lent Mrs N a little under £1 million, through a bridging loan. The way this loan is written 
makes clear that Aura saw the term of the loan as a maximum lending period, but it 
envisaged that the property might well sell well before this. 
Aura asked an appropriately qualified firm of surveyors to inspect the property. They said 
that the flat was nearing the end of a refurbishment programme, and estimated that to 
complete works to a reasonable standard would cost in the region of £25,000. 
I think that it was reasonable for Aura to rely on what this firm said. And I note that the 
valuation Aura obtained, of £1,400,000 in its current condition, £1,450,000 after 
refurbishment, was done in March 2019, so entirely unaffected by the pandemic.
Mr N has said he had to borrow a large amount of additional money to cover the cost of the 
refurbishment, and that Aura knew from the start that its reduced lending amount wouldnt 
cover the work required. But I dont think it did. It relied on the estimates of its surveyors to 
judge how much it might cost to complete the refurbishment. I think thats a reasonable 
approach for Aura to take. I havent seen anything to make me think that Aura had 
understood the work required to sell the flat couldnt be done with the money it was lending. 
Mr N said Aura then refused to allow him to be added to the title of the property, so he could 
raise further lending against the flat. He said by doing this, Aura knew it was stopping the flat 
from being refurbished and sold. Aura set out why it didnt consider this was in its interest  it 
could unfortunately make things much more difficult if the elderly Mrs N were to pass away 
before the flat was sold. Notwithstanding the sensitivity of this issue, I do think thats a 
reasonable issue for Aura to have considered. So I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair 
for Aura to refuse Mr Ns request. And Ive explained I dont think Aura did accept the flat 
couldnt be refurbished with the money it had already lent. 
Mr N also said Aura bullied him into reducing the price to an unacceptably low level. But the 
original agreement that Mr N signed, on behalf of Mrs N, with Aura says that if the flat hasnt 
had an offer accepted within the first four months, it then has to be marketed at a price 
acceptable to Aura. The flat wasnt marketed at all until late February 2020. And Mr N was 
aware of the valuation that Aura carried out. So I think it was to be expected that Aura might 
envisage a marketing price much closer to its original valuation. 
Mr N said that Aura acted in breach of FCA guidance when it threatened him with legal 
proceedings. Aura has told us that it had already issued a letter before action on 21 
February 2020, prior to the UKs first lockdown. The loan repayment date was 3 April. Aura 
was then not allowed to take any legal steps towards repossession until 31 October 2020, as 
a result of FCA guidance in place at the time. However, during this period, Mr N was marketing the property at a price Aura considered 
wasnt realistically achievable, and hadnt been before the pandemic. Meanwhile, interest 
continued to accrue on the loan. I dont think Aura was prevented, during this time, from 
monitoring efforts to sell the property, and seeking to hold Mr N to the terms of the loan, 
which meant he should agree a marketing value with Aura. I dont think this was bullying on 
the part of Aura. I note that Aura at one point instructed a mystery shopper to attend the 
property for a viewing. This is unusual, but in the context of this particular case, I do not think 
it was an unreasonable step for Aura to have taken.
Aura then instructed its solicitors to start possession proceedings on 1 November 2020. The 
previous FCA guidance which prohibited any such steps had then lapsed, and the new 
guidance took a different stance. From November 2020 the FCA guidance said  firms 
may commence or re-commence and continue repossession proceedings, up to and 
including obtaining a possession order. I dont think Aura acted in breach of this guidance.
Mr Ns solicitor told Aura in October 2020 that Mr N would reduce the price to £1,650,000, 
and he would further reduce the price to £1,500,000 in mid to late January, if a sale hadnt 
been agreed. Mr Ns solicitors said he had made arrangements to sell the flat at auction in 
February if it hadnt sold by then. Aura arranged a preliminary hearing on its possession 
proceedings for March. Given that Aura had understood the property would be sold at 
auction in February, at the latest, I think that was a reasonable step for Aura to take. 
Considering all of the above. I dont think its Auras fault that this property eventually sold at 
a price well below Mr Ns expectations. I understand that Mr N feels very strongly about 
Auras conduct, but I dont think its behaved unreasonably or unfairly. And so, although I 
understand that Mr N will, on behalf of Mrs N, be very disappointed, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman