DRN-3378997
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt extend his
promotional 0% interest rate on his credit card account when it expired.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decisions dated 20 January 2022 and 7 March 2022. As the background details leading up 
to this complaint are well known to both parties, I will only summarise them here. 
Following the outcome of a separate complaint in 2019  relating to a loan account provided 
by Barclays, Mr S expected his 0% promotional interest rate on his Barclaycard credit card 
to be extended indefinitely when it ended in April 2020. As this didnt happen, Mr S 
complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard didnt agree that promotional interest rate should have been extended or 
interest suspended. But it paid Mr S £75 (in total) for some service-related issues and it 
refunded interest totalling £204.13 as a gesture of goodwill. Unhappy with the response,    
Mr S referred his complaint to us. But our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. So, Mr S 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision.
I initially thought Mr S complaint should be upheld in full. I said the complaint response Mr S 
had received in 2019 said arrangements had been made to extend Mr S 0% promotional 
rate when it expired. And this hadnt happened. And, in essence, I asked Barclaycard to put 
Mr S back in the position he would have been had the promotional rate been extended in 
April 2020 (including amending his credit file), and pay Mr S a further £125 (£200 total) 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S accepted my provision decision. Barclaycard agreed to increase the compensation 
payment. But it said Mr S had been meeting his contractual payments since December 2020 
and that the original complaint response had intended Mr S financial circumstances to be 
reassessed when his promotional rate ended. It also pointed out that there was no time 
period stated as to how long interest would be frozen for. After considering Barclaycards 
comments, I issued a second provisional decision.  
What I said in my provisional decision dated 7 March 2022
In my provisional decision dated 7 March 2022, I explained that having taken Barclaycards 
latest comments into consideration, my view on Mr S complaint had altered. I went on to 
explain why I thought it should be partially upheld:
Im satisfied that Mr S credit card statements show that Mr S brought his credit card account up 
to date in December 2020. While this appears to have been because of a refund received from 
another account, the statements show that since then Mr S has been able to meet his monthly 
payments which included the interest due. And the limited screenshots of his credit file that Mr S 
has been able to provide also show he has maintained his payments to other creditors. 
This suggests to me that Mr S financial circumstances had changed to some extent since the 
original complaint in 2019. So, asking Barclaycard to amend his credit file to show he is in an 
arrangement to pay  as I previously suggested it should, would be an inaccurate reflection of 
how Mr S has managed his account and would be detrimental to his credit file. 
An arrangement to pay is adverse information that would affect Mr S credit score and could 
impact on his ability to obtain further credit should he need to do so. So, I dont intend to tell 
Barclaycard to amend Mr S credit file in the way I originally suggested.  
Ive gone on to think about whether Barclaycard should have suspended interest when Mr S 
promotional interest rate expired. As Ive previously said, I cant comment on the outcome of the 
complaint in 2019 as part of this complaint. But I was satisfied that provision was made for Mr S 
credit card interest rate to be reviewed - when the promotional rate expired, due to the financial 
circumstances he has been experiencing at the time of that complaint. 
But Ive reviewed again Barclaycards internal records (customer notes that are recorded when 
contact is made with a customer) and Mr S credit card statements, in light of Barclaycards most 
recent comments. And, on reflection, I agree with Barclaycard that the intention to suspend 
interest beyond the promotional interest rate period was subject to Barclaycard reassessing      
Mr S circumstances when the promotional rate expired. This is because the customer notes 
recorded in 2019 say interest is frozen when the 12 MTh promo interest expires, aware this is 
not automatic process and review and manual action will be required at the time. I think this is a 
reasonable approach given the promotional rate wasnt due to expire until around a year later by 
which times Mr S circumstances could have changed. 
I say this because, when a consumer is experiencing financial difficulty, a lender has an 
obligation to treat them positively and sympathetically. There are a range of remedies that a 
lender can apply to meet those obligations  one of which is to suspend interest. But when any 
remedy is agreed this would generally subject to regular reviews. Such reviews ensure the 
arrangement still meets the consumers circumstances given any changes that may have 
happened. 
That said, the follow up letter sent to Mr S in 2019 only said this is not an automatic process and 
you will need to contact Barclaycard when your promotional 0% rate expires. So, I can 
understand why Mr S wouldnt have realised that his circumstances would need to be 
reassessed when the interest rate expired. 
Mr S statements show the promotional rate was originally due to end in April 2020 but was 
temporarily extended. Barclaycards notes suggest this happened as part of a pandemic relief 
arrangement that was offered when the Covid-19 pandemic started in early 2020 rather than    
Mr S contacting Barclaycard to discuss the previous agreement in 2019. The notes also suggest 
a three-month payment holiday was agreed at this point. But I can see Mr S continued to make 
his payments during this period. But as this is not part of the complaint, I wont comment on this 
further.
Ive seen that Mr S was back in touch with Barclaycard in September 2020 as he did go on to 
miss some payments from July 2020. Here, the records indicate that Mr S told Barclaycard he 
still had some financial problems and issues with gambling but that he was up to date with 
priority bills and would be able to maintain his credit card payments going forward. Although, an 
income and expenditure breakdown wasnt completed at this point, Im not persuaded that this 
conversation should have prompted Barclaycard to offer to waive the interest or offer any 
alternative remedy at this point. However, I can see that a few months later, Mr S did complete an income and expenditure 
breakdown with Barclaycard, and this indicated that Mr S account could be referred to its debt 
management team. In my experience, this kind of action generally means that a lender would go 
on to consider a suspension of interest and charges and look to reach an agreement about 
affordable repayments. And I think this was a reasonable suggestion given the information Mr S 
had provided and shows Barclaycards intention to consider Mr S circumstances positively and 
sympathetically. But the notes recorded at this point suggest Mr S declined this recommendation 
and he subsequently made the payment to bring the arrears on his account up to date and that 
he said he would recommence his monthly payments. 
It wasnt until February 2021 that Barclaycards records show Mr S contacted it to discuss the 
outcome of his original complaint in 2019 and that he subsequently sent in a copy of the letter he 
received. Here, there was a delay in this matter being looked into to. This prompted Barclaycard 
to pay Mr S £50 compensation for the delay. Ultimately, having looked into the matter 
Barclaycard paid a further £25 compensation for distress and inconvenience and refunded 
interest of £204.13 as a gesture of goodwill. But it didnt agree to suspend and further interest.    
Ive thought carefully about all the above and, on reflection, I dont think Barclaycard should 
suspend interest indefinitely. I havent seen enough to make me think Mr S contacted 
Barclaycard when the extended promotional rate came to an end in mid-2020 because of the 
May 2019 letter. And later when he did contact Barclaycard and an assessment of his 
circumstances was completed, it seems Mr S declined the offer to transfer his account to debt 
management which would have most likely resulted in interest and charges being suspended - 
although this would have been recorded on Mr S credit file. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr S has been able maintain his monthly payments to both his 
credit card and other creditors since December 2020. Overall, even if Mr S had contacted 
Barclaycard about the May 2019 letter earlier than he did, I think its most likely that Barclaycard 
would have recommended transferring his account to debt management and that Mr S would 
have declined this.     
That said, I dont doubt Mr S has experienced some difficult times prior to May 2019 and in 2020 
due to the pandemic. And I think Barclaycard was aware of this too  given the notes it recorded 
during 2020. So, I think it would be fair if Barclaycard refunded any remaining interest and 
charges incurred from when the promotional offer expired to when Mr S bought his account up to 
date in December 2020. 
Ive contacted Barclaycard in this respect, and it has provided evidence to show that the interest 
and charges incurred for this period total £237.34. As mentioned above, Barclaycard has already 
refunded £204.13, so this leaves an outstanding amount of £33.21. Barclaycard has agreed to 
refund this sum to Mr S.
Barclaycard has also agreed to a further compensation payment of £125  making a total of £200 
overall. I think this fairly represents any confusion caused by the letter in May 2019 and the 
distress and inconvenienced caused Mr S experienced as a result.
Ive thought about whether Barclaycard should remove the adverse data it recorded on Mr S 
credit file because of the missed payments from July 2020 to December 2020. However, the 
information recorded is an accurate reflection of how the account was managed at this time, so I 
dont think Barclaycard should remove that information now.
Of course, its possible that Mr S circumstances have again changed or may change again in the 
future. In those circumstances, Mr S should contact Barclaycard to see how it can help him at 
that time.I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. 
Mr S responded to say he still believed 0% interest should be applied on his outstanding 
credit card balance until hed paid off the amount in full. And he referred to the final response 
letter he received in May 2019. 
Barclaycard responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. But it had previously 
informally agreed to the redress outlined above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so, I dont intend to depart from my findings in my provisional dated             
7 March 2022. I know Mr S will be disappointed as he expected not to incur interest on his 
outstanding credit card balance. So, Ill explain why.
Mr S has referred to the letter he received in May 2019. As mentioned above, I accept this 
letter wasnt as clear as it should have been about what would happen when the promotional 
rate ended  in the sense that, his circumstances needed to be reassessed at that time. So, 
I can understand why he believes this meant his 0% promotional rate would be automatically 
extended. 
But as I also explained above, in light of further comments from Barclaycard and the internal 
customer notes Barclaycard recorded in 2019 when this letter was sent to Mr S, Im 
persuaded the intention to suspend interest beyond the promotional interest rate period was 
subject to Barclaycard reassessing Mr S circumstances when the promotional rate expired. 
I do acknowledge that Barclaycard may not have assessed Mr S circumstances in           
April 2020 (when then 0% promotional rate expired) as the original complaint response 
intended. But I think Mr S should have been reasonably aware that he needed to contact 
Barclaycard at this point. While I can see Mr S did contact Barclaycard around this time, this 
appears to have been in relation to seeking help due to the Covid-19 pandemic rather than 
because of the outcome of the original complaint.
But Mr S financial circumstances were discussed in detail in September and                   
December 2020. And, ultimately, an income and expenditure was completed. But it seems 
Mr S declined the solution offered by Barclaycard at that time which would have most likely 
meant any interest and charges would be suspended. Rather, Mr S told Barclaycard that he 
was up to date with his bills and that he could start paying his contractual payments. And   
Mr S has maintained these payments since December 2020. 
So, by the time Mr S contacted Barclaycard about the May 2019 letter  in February 2021, 
Mr S had already bought his account up to date and had been meeting his contractual 
payments (including the interest that was due). This suggests Mr S circumstances had 
improved. So, I dont think Barclaycard is now required to refund any interest charged since 
December 2020 or apply an interest freeze going forward because of May 2019 complaint 
response. 
Putting things rightIts clear Mr S has experienced some difficult times earlier in 2020. So, I think it would be fair 
if Barclaycard refunded any remaining interest and charges incurred from when the 
promotional interest rate offer expired to when Mr S bought his account up to date in 
December 2020. 
As Ive previously explained, I have already contacted Barclaycard in this respect, and it has 
provided evidence to show that the interest and charges incurred for this period total 
£237.34. Barclaycard has already refunded £204.13, so this leaves an outstanding amount 
of £33.21. Barclaycard has agreed to refund this sum to Mr S.
Barclaycard has also agreed to a further compensation payment of £125  making a total of 
£200 overall. I think this fairly represents any confusion caused by the letter in May 2019 and 
the distress and inconvenienced caused to Mr S experienced as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision dated 7 March 2022, I 
uphold Mr S complaint in part.
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should now:
Refund to Mr S any interest and charges incurred from July 2020 to December 2020 
less £204.13 already refunded. This amount to £33.21.
Pay Mr S an additional £125 (£200 total) in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
Reassess Mr S financial circumstances should he contact it about any further 
financial difficulties.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman