DRN-2385240
The complaint
Miss A and Mr O complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold them a whole of 
life policy in 1994.
What happened
After meeting with an adviser from a company I will call G, Miss A and Mr O took out a whole 
of life policy to provide family protection if either of them died. Company G has since been 
acquired by Aviva. 
The initial sum assured increased by 10% per annum until 2019. And the premium increased 
each year too. The first policy review was in 2004 and the monthly premium was increased 
to maintain the sum assured. This was in addition to the indexation increases. At the reviews 
in 2009 and 2014, no change was required to maintain the sum assured. But in 2019, Aviva 
wrote to Miss A and explained the monthly premium wasnt enough to maintain the life 
cover. 
Miss A and Mr O made a number of complaints about the policy in 2019. Aviva dealt with the 
complaint about the mis-sale of the policy as one complaint, and additional complaints about 
the servicing of the policy in a separate complaint. In April 2020, Aviva provided a final 
response to Miss A and Mr O in respect of the mis-sale complaint. And sent a subsequent 
response about the same matter in June 2020. In respect of this complaint, Aviva didnt 
accept the policy had been mis-sold as there was a need for life cover at the time, and the 
policy was suitable.
Miss A and Mr O didnt agree with Aviva and brought their complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators looked into things for them. Our investigator thought the policy 
hadnt been mis-sold and Aviva hadnt acted unfairly as theyd explained at the start of the 
policy how it worked. And there had been policy reviews in 2004, 2009, 2014 and 2019 in 
which they further explained how the investment element of the policy impacted on the 
premiums.
Miss A and Mr O have asked that an ombudsman decides their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see its taken some time for the complaint to be passed to me to decide. I understand 
one of my colleagues has explained to Miss A and Mr O why there was a delay, but I wanted 
to take this opportunity of apologising to Miss A, Mr O and Aviva for the time its taken to get 
to the decision stage. 
Ive noted our service is dealing with a separate complaint about other service issues Miss A 
and Mr O have complained about to Aviva. I can see that Aviva treated the complaint about 
the mis-sale of the policy as a separate complaint, so I will only be dealing with the matter of 
the mis-sale in my decision. A colleague is considering the other matters. 
I understand Miss A and Mr O will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as 
our investigator gave, I dont consider Aviva mis-sold the policy. I will now explain why.
Theres little detailed information from the time of the sale. And thats not unusual given the 
amount of time thats passed. I dont know what was discussed at the time of the sale, so Ill 
consider what is likely to have happened. 
Ive considered whether, based on all the available information, the adviser made a suitable 
recommendation based on Miss As and Mr Os objectives at the time of the sale. Miss A 
and Mr O have told us they took out the policy for family protection. And it doesnt appear 
any other insurances were taken out at the time. Miss A and Mr O were in their late 20s, and 
I understand there was at least one child in the family at the time. Theres a degree of 
subjective judgment when an adviser makes a recommendation. Different advisers can 
reasonably make different recommendations when considering a customers demands and 
needs. Its not my role to substitute the advisers recommendation for what I may consider to 
be a slightly more suitable recommendation. And so, with this in mind, Id have to be 
persuaded that the advisers recommendation was wholly unsuitable for Miss A and Mr O to 
conclude the policy had been mis-sold.
Having looked at everything, Im not persuaded this is the case. Miss A and Mr O have told 
us that they wanted life cover for family protection in the event of death. Theres nothing in 
the information to suggest that Miss A and Mr O asked the adviser for cover for a certain 
period. As such, it was for the adviser to make a recommendation they considered was 
suitable for Miss As and Mr Os need for family protection. 
While some people may wish to take out financial protection for their children until they reach 
a certain age, others may wish to ensure some protection for their family at any age. 
Similarly, even when Miss A and Mr Os children had grown up, they could reasonably have 
wanted to ensure there was cover in place to protect each other. Theres no obvious end 
date for this type of family protection need. I accept that a whole of life policy was likely more 
expensive than a term assurance policy, but this doesnt by itself make the recommendation 
unsuitable. Whole of life cover offers different benefits (and risks) to a term assurance. As 
already noted, a whole of life policy can be suitable when cover is required for an unknown 
period. It can also offer more flexibility than a term assurance policy. Premiums can be 
altered or paused during the life of the policy, the sum assured can be increased and it offers 
a potential investment return. And this is something Miss A and Mr O have taken advantage 
of over the years as they used the indexation option within the policy to increase the life 
cover provided. 
Ive noted Miss As and Mr Os concern that Aviva carried out the first review on the policy in 
2004. They say this was despite the illustration Aviva offering a guarantee the sum assured 
wouldnt be affected for 15 years. I considered this, but the illustration didnt offer a 
guarantee. It explained that Aviva expect the Sum Assuredcan be maintained for 15 
years assuming a growth rate in the investment part of the policy of 5% per year. The terms 
of the policy explained the first performance review would be in 2004. And when this was 
completed, Aviva offered the option of increasing the premium to maintain the cover, or to 
keep the premium the same and reduce the cover. Miss A and Mr O elected to increase the 
premium to maintain the cover.
Im also mindful the policy has remained in force for 27 years. And that shortly after taking 
out the policy Mr O suffered a life changing event, after which time Miss A took on the responsibility of paying the premiums. There have been a number of reviews of the policy, 
and the indexation allowance has continued to be taken. Had Miss A and Mr O only wanted 
protection for a fixed time Id have expected to see them making changes to their cover at 
some earlier time. The fact that theyve continued to pay for cover suggests to me they 
recognised they had some need for ongoing cover. 
While I appreciate Miss As and Mr Os strength of feeling in this matter, overall, Im not 
persuaded that Aviva mis-sold the policy. Im satisfied the policy offered them the family 
protection they were seeking at a price they could afford. While I accept there were other 
ways they couldve addressed their needs, Im not persuaded the policy was wholly 
unsuitable. And whilst Miss A and Mr O say they werent told there was an investment 
element to the policy, Im satisfied they were free to accept or reject the advisers 
recommendation and were provided with enough information about the policy to show how it 
worked including the key benefits and risks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman