DRN-2900552
The complaint
E, a company, have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have 
declined a claim they made following the theft of their van. RSA declined the claim on the 
basis that the vehicle was left unlocked and the keys were left in the vehicle. E has also 
complained that those exclusions in the policy werent made clear when it was sold to them.
What happened
E has held a business motor insurance policy with RSA since 2014 covering their van, which 
was used for their puppy day care business.
On 19 October 2020 the van was stolen from outside a clients home. 
In their statement to RSA following the theft, E said that theyd pulled up outside the house 
and Ms U (a director of E) let one of the dogs out of the back of the van. The dog went up 
the driveway towards its owner and Ms U followed the dog to greet the client. As she walked 
back to the vehicle, she saw someone get into the van and drive away. Ms U ran after the 
van but was unable to stop the thief. When questioned by RSA, and our investigator, Ms U 
said she was unsure about whether the van was unlocked. She said that possibly shed 
dropped the keys when getting out of the van, and the thief picked them up off the ground 
before stealing the van.
RSA declined the claim as they said the CCTV footage from the clients house showed the 
thief opening the door of the van and driving away within seconds. They said that this 
suggested that the van was open, and the keys were in the ignition. In declining the claim 
RSA relied on the exclusion in the policy for a claim made in circumstances where the 
vehicle wasnt locked, and keys had been left in the vehicle.
E made a complaint about the declined claim and received a final response letter from RSA 
on 13 January 2021, not upholding the complaint. Unhappy with their response, E brought 
the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Es complaint as she felt that the CCTV footage was clear and 
agreed that there was no evidence of the thief bending over to pick up keys. 
E rejected the investigators findings and said that they had never been made aware of the 
exclusion and didnt recall receiving policy documents. Our investigator asked for evidence 
of the sales process, and policy information from RSA and concluded that the exclusion had 
been clearly and sufficiently highlighted to E during the sales process.
E didnt accept the additional findings and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator and wont be 
upholding Es complaint. I will explain why.
Did RSA fairly decline Es claim?
Section three of the policy terms and conditions sets out the circumstances in which loss of a 
vehicle, caused by theft will be covered. Paragraph 8 includes the following: 
8. Any loss or damage to your vehicle as a result of theft or attempted theft if:
Your vehicle is unlocked
Your vehicle windows are open
Your vehicle sunroof is open
Your vehicle is left unattended and unlocked with the vehicle keys in or on 
your vehicle
In relying on the exclusion quoted above, the onus falls to RSA to show that it applies. In 
support of their decision to decline the claim, RSA have relied on the sequence of events as 
shown by the CCTV footage provided by Es client.
The CCTV footage shows a person approaching the van, opening the door and after a small 
pause, driving the van away. RSA say that Es explanation of the keys being dropped on the 
ground isnt plausible, as theres no indication that the thief bent down to pick up keys in the 
CCTV footage. Given the speed at which the thief entered the van and drove away in it, RSA 
concluded the door was unlocked and the keys were in the ignition. In response, Es 
solicitors suggested some alternative explanations, such as the key being cloned, or the 
door being opened using computer technology. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my 
decision based on what I think, more likely than not, happened. In this case, having carefully 
considered the available evidence, while the solicitors suggestions are possible, I dont think 
theyre more likely than the sequence of events put forward by RSA, on the basis of the 
CCTV evidence. I think, more likely than not, that the van was unlocked, and the keys were 
in the van enabling the thief to quickly open the door and drive away.
Im therefore satisfied that RSA fairly declined Es claim.
Were the policy exclusions sufficiently highlighted to E?
E has said that when the policy was purchased, these exclusions werent adequately 
highlighted.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the details of the sale of the policy to E. RSA has told us 
that E first purchased a policy in 2014 over the phone. The policy was renewed each year 
over the phone, and E has said that it most recently renewed on slightly different terms. 
Given the time thats passed since the policy was first sold to E, a copy of the call recording 
for the sale is no longer available. However, RSA have provided a copy of the script that 
they say would have been used at the time. Im satisfied that the script is the best evidence 
available, of what was likely discussed on the sale call. And I note that in the script the call 
handler is prompted to make it clear that the vehicle must be protected against loss or 
damage and it must be locked with the keys removed while unattended. 
Ive also considered whether E was likely provided with a copy of the policy documents, and 
the prominence of the exclusion in the policy documents. E says they didnt receive a copy 
of the policy documents following the latest renewal; however, RSA have sent us a copy of 
an amendment summary sent to E on 19 June 2020. This asked E to download the policy 
wording from their website, or to call them and ask for a copy. RSA have confirmed that the 
policy would have included similar wording for this exclusion, at each renewal. Weighing 
everything up, I think RSA have done enough to provide E with a copy of the policy terms 
and conditions. 
On table 3 of the key facts document, included at the front of the policy terms and conditions 
(on page 10), it says:
What is not covered:
You must also protect the van against loss or damage, and it must be locked, 
and the key(s) removed from in or on your vehicle if no one is in it
As Ive already mentioned, the policy terms and conditions, alongside the detail of cover 
provided for loss due to theft, also clearly set out this exclusion. I therefore think RSA did 
enough to draw Es attention to this significant term of the policy. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that RSA provided information to E about these 
exclusions in the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. Im therefore satisfied that 
RSA doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this part of Es claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this decision, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman