DRN-3299202
The complaint
Mr E has complained about Experian Limited displaying incorrect address information on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr Es address was showing incorrectly on his Experian file. He says hes then been written 
to at different addresses. He provided Experian with evidence of his correct address, such 
as from his council and bank, but Experian declined to help.
Experian say Mr Es council had given them the wrong address. They say the council later 
updated to the correct one, but didnt amend the previous electoral roll entries. Experian said 
they couldnt update the address themselves and had to wait for the council to do so.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They pointed 
out that Experian should have simply raised a dispute with the council when Mr E showed 
them his address information was incorrect. Similarly, they said Experian should contact the 
council now to sort out the previous electoral roll entries instead of just waiting and hoping 
the council do it unprompted. They also said Experian should pay Mr E £200 compensation 
for the stress theyd caused.
Experian didnt agree. They blamed the council again, and felt £200 was too high as they 
hadnt caused such financial loss.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer tells a credit reference agency that information is incorrect, I would expect 
the agency to look into that. That normally involves raising a dispute with the party who 
provided the information  here being Mr Es council.
I acknowledge that its the council who own the address data, and that Experian cant 
change it without the councils permission. But Experian still had a responsibility to liaise with 
the council on Mr Es behalf, not least when he provided evidence of his correct address 
from that very same council.
I cant see any good reason why Experian didnt just contact the council here, both in regard 
to the address being incorrect previously, and in regard to the electoral roll information being 
incorrect now. Theyve failed to help Mr E when they should have, and I think they acted 
unreasonably in doing so. Im not sure what Experian thought would be achieved by simply 
waiting and hoping the council would contact them out of the blue.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to 
acknowledge their errors and the impact they had. This can be for financial losses, or  like 
here  for non-financial losses too.
Through their unhelpfulness, Experian caused Mr E unfair trouble and upset when he was 
already in a vulnerable position. Taking into account our guidelines on amounts of 
compensation, I agree with our investigator that £200 is fair.
Putting things right
I direct Experian Limited to:
Work with Mr Es council to correct his address and electoral roll data; and
Pay Mr E £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint, and direct Experian Limited to put 
things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman