DRN-2502096
The complaint
Mrs H and Ms K (the representatives) are the personal representatives of the estate of the 
late Mr H. They have complained about Scottish Widows Limited. They say that the annuity 
arranged for Mr H in 1999 was missold.
What happened
In 1999 Mr H was 55 years old, he was married. He held a pension policy with Scottish 
Widows. He was provided with an annuity quote which included a quote for a full annuity and 
a reduced annuity with a tax-free lump sum. The quotes were on a single life basis and 
didnt include any spouse pension.
Mr H appears to have selected the option with tax-free cash and signed and returned the 
quote. On the same date he completed a form with his bank details, this form allowed the 
option of requesting alternative quotations, including a quotation for a spouses benefit. That 
section was left blank.
The annuity quotation was run again at Mr Hs actual retirement date and the sums payable 
had reduced slightly. Mr H was told of the new values, a cheque was issued for the tax-free 
cash, and then in June 1999 a policy document was issued. Mr H was asked to check it and 
let Scottish Widows know if it was incorrect. The policy document stated that spouses 
benefits were not applicable.
Two further (and much smaller) annuities were set up subsequently, these both included a 
spouses benefit.
Mr H died in 2016. The annuity payments continued for a short period, around three months, 
but when Scottish Widows was told of Mr Hs death it asked for repayment.
Mrs H complained in 2019. Scottish Widows responded and said that the annuity had been 
set up on a single life basis. It said that the complaint could be referred to this service, but 
that it believed it had been made outside the relevant time limits. It subsequently withdrew 
this part of its response.
The complaint was referred to this service. Mrs H has explained that Mr H had always said 
that she would receive his pensions if he died.
Scottish Widows responded further correcting some errors it had made in its original 
response. It offered £75 for any distress it had caused but didnt change its substantive 
position.
The complaint was considered by an investigator at this service. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He reviewed the documents from 1999 and noted that Mr H had 
signed a quote which said, Spouses pension: none. 
He also signed an instruction form that stated, in bold, To be completed if you require an 
alternative quotation of benefits and would have allowed him to select spouses benefits but 
this was left blank.
The policy that was issued said that there would be no spouses benefits.
The investigator explained that there was no way of assessing why Mr H may have done 
this, or whether he did it intentionally or not. His daughter was getting married and the tax-
free cash was used for that. Scottish Widows was not advising him, and therefore it needed 
only to provide documents that were clear, fair and not misleading. The investigator thought 
that the documents were reasonably clear about the fact that the annuity would not include 
spouses benefits. 
The investigator explained that even if Mr H had agreed to the annuity by mistake, he could 
not say that was Scottish Widows fault. He didnt uphold the complaint.
The representatives responded and said that they didnt agree. They said Mr H would have 
left his estate to his family and that he must have been badly advised. Another pension did 
make provision for Mrs H and documents were provided to the investigator for this pension. 
It was also said that Mr H may not have understood what he was signing when he took the 
annuity.
The investigator responded and said that his view hadnt changed. He explained that 
Scottish Widows didnt provide advice and that annuities like this are commonly arranged 
without advice. He remained of the view that the documents were reasonably clear, and the 
annuity didnt include a spouses benefit. Even if Mr H did make a mistake, Scottish Widows 
werent responsible for that. Annuities are contracts and cant be adjusted or changed. Mr H 
couldve taken advice if he didnt understand the forms. The documents provided related to a 
different and separate pension.
The representatives asked for a decision from an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate this decision will 
come as a disappointment, but I can only uphold a complaint when Im satisfied that a 
business has made a mistake and got things wrong. I dont believe that is the case here.
In 1999 Scottish Widows was arranging the annuity for Mr H. It was not providing advice 
about which annuity option would be most suitable for him. It wasnt under any obligation to 
advise.
We cant know what Mr Hs thought process was at the time he set up the annuity. It may be 
that he made an error, he could have been distracted at the time. There may have been 
some misunderstanding, but theres nothing to suggest that Scottish Widows ought to have 
known there were any difficulties or any lack of understanding. Scottish Widows was entitled 
to assume Mr H had capacity to select the annuity he wanted.
Had Mr H selected a spouses benefit, it would probably have made a significant difference 
to the pension payable during his lifetime given that Mrs H is many years younger.The documentation that was provided does seem to be reasonably clear. As the investigator 
has said, there were several statements within the documents which described that the 
annuity was on a single life basis with no spouses benefit.
Mr H had signed a quote which said, Spouses pension: none. He also signed an instruction 
form that stated, in bold, To be completed if you require an alternative quotation of benefits 
and this would have allowed him to select spouses benefits, but this was left blank.
The policy that was issued also said that there would be no spouses benefits.
I must make an evidence-based decision. As Ive said, I cant know what Mr Hs thought 
process was back in 1999. I can only uphold a complaint were a business has acted 
incorrectly or made an omission which has impacted on a consumer. There is no evidence of 
that here. Scottish Widows was not providing advice, and the documents it did provide were 
clear and not mis-leading in my view.
I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this is not the decision the representatives 
hoped for, and I understand that losing the benefit of this annuity will have been upsetting for 
Mrs H as well as having a significant financial impact. But I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to uphold the complaint as there is no evidence that Scottish Widows got things 
wrong when it set up the annuity.
Scottish Widows has offered £75 for any distress caused by the errors in its response. I think 
that offer is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman