DRN-2114619
The complaint
Ms L complains that Arval UK Limited (Arval) has unfairly charged her at the end of her car 
hire agreement 
What happened
Ms L leased a brand-new car in October 2016. In July 2019, the car was
collected and inspected by a third-party collection agent. It identified four areas of damage to 
the car and Ms L then received an invoice for damage charges of £633.
Arval charged Ms L for the following damages:
 £48 for Rear Bumper Cover Refinish  scuffed
 £195 for Front Wing Right Repair/Paint -dent 
 £195 for B Post Right Repair/Paint -dent
 £195 fir Quarter Panel Right Repair/Paint  dent 
Ms L complained to Arval. She said she felt the damage fell within the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. She was particularly upset about the B Post repair cost. She said the collection 
agent who inspected the car has told her that the mark to the B Post was a result of the 
driver's seat belt becoming trapped between the door and the internal post and this was a 
common issue. Ms L said she didnt feel it was her fault that the seat belt failed to retract and 
Arval should take this into consideration.
Arval reviewed the photographs again and issued a response via email on 12 August 2019. 
It didnt agree the damaged fell within fair wear and tear, but it agreed to reduce the costs of 
the repair to the front wing and the quarter panel by 50% as a goodwill gesture. This left an 
outstanding balance of £438.
Ms L remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms L. She reviewed the inspection report and the 
photographic evidence. She didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. She agreed that the damage fell 
outside of the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear and was chargeable. In her view the 
reduction of 50% for the front wing and quarter panel was fair and reasonable and so she 
didnt ask Arval to do anything further.
Ms L disagreed. She feels very strongly it is unfair to charge her for the B Post and she feels 
the damages are within fair wear and tear and so she asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so I have reached 
the same view as our investigator. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms L. Ill explain 
why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement. These say that Arval has the right 
to charge for the costs of repairs for damage which exceeds fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the BVLRA guidelines. The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) is the trade body that oversees the vehicle rental and leasing sector.
The BVRLA fair wear and tear guide provides an industry-wide, accepted standard that
defines fair wear and tear on passenger cars when they are returned at the end of a
lease or finance agreement.
Arval has said that the charges it has applied are in line with the terms and conditions. It has 
identified damage to the car which it says is unfair wear and tear within the meaning of the 
relevant industry guidelines. 
Ive looked at the inspection report (including the photos). Having considered the damage 
identified, Im satisfied that it exceeds fair wear and tear in accordance with the BVLRA 
guidelines. Specifically:
Rear Bumper
BVRLA guidelines say scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the 
vehicles age and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing. 
As the scratch/ scuff on the bumper is longer than 25mm I dont think this is acceptable wear 
and tear, so I wont be asking Arval to remove this charge.
Front wing and Quarter Panel
BVRLA guidance for dents (up to 10mm in diameter) say they are acceptable, provided there 
are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken. Dents on the on the roof 
or swage line on any panels are not acceptable of any size. I reviewed the dents and the 
images show disruption to the lines of the reflection of the zebra board. The size of the dent 
is measured from the point at which the lines begin to be disrupted until they go back to 
normal. Both dents are also on the swage line and so fall outside of fair wear and tear 
acceptable and so are chargeable.
B-Post
The image of the scratch/scuff on the B Post clearly exceeds 25mm and the primer is 
showing and so I find this chargeable also.
I appreciate what Ms L has said about scratches to the B post being a common fault but that 
doesnt alter the scratch is present and under the terms of the agreement Arval is entitled to 
charge for this damage.
The investigator mentioned the guide available on Arvals website. I have looked at the guide 
and it does explicitly state: you have the option to repair vehicles prior to collection, 
provided all work is up to a professional standard and evidence of warranty can be provided. 
If the repair is of a poor standard, the item will remain chargeable. So, whilst I appreciate 
there may be a provider that could have repaired the car for less than Arval has invoiced her for, Ms L didnt choose that option and so Im not able to say Arval has done anything wrong 
in applying its own charges.
I note Arval has reduced the cost of the quarter panel and front panel repair by 50% as a 
goodwill gesture and I find this fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to make any 
further reduction.
Ms L has made this service aware she has had a change in her financial circumstances and 
wouldnt be in a position to pay this invoice in full. I would expect Arval to be sympathetic to 
her situation and assess her income and expenditure to come to an affordable repayment 
plan if necessary.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman