DRN-3569093
The complaint
Mr T complains that Yorkshire Building Society failed to provide him with documentation 
about the maturity of his fixed rate access bond.
What happened
Mr T held a fixed rate access bond with YBS. The bond matured on 31 December 2020. On 
maturity there were a number of options Mr T could have selected from. YBS received no 
instructions from Mr T prior to 31 December 2020, so they carried out the default option on 
maturity. This meant the proceeds of the bond were reinvested into a bond with an interest 
rate of 0.45% for 12 months.
Mr T says he didnt receive any documentation prior to the maturity date and therefore was 
unable to make an informed choice about what to do with the bonds proceeds. He 
complained to YBS, who told him they had sent out the relevant documentation to him on 11 
December 2020. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr T maintains he never received this documentation. He 
referred his complaint to our service, where our investigator considered it. They didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld but Mr T disagreed, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ive been provided with screenshots of YBS internal systems, which record when letters 
were sent out on Mr Ts accounts. These clearly show that the maturity documentation was 
sent out on 11 December 2020, to the address Mr T had provided YBS with in the July of 
that year. 
I appreciate Mr T feels strongly about this matter and I dont doubt his testimony that he 
didnt receive the maturity documentation. But in order to uphold this complaint I must 
establish that YBS did something wrong. And Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case. 
While it is of course unfortunate that Mr T did not receive the documentation prior to the 
maturity date, I have to consider whether YBS did what would reasonably be expected of 
them in the circumstances - and I think they did. That is to say, they issued the correct 
documentation, on time, in the format Mr T said he preferred (letter) and to the correct 
address. Whilst I understand Mr T says it never arrived, I have not seen enough to say that 
this was due to YBSs actions. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman