DRN-2166785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) and their decision to decline
the claim they made on their home insurance policy before voiding the policy altogether.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs A renewed their home insurance policy with HDI through the
use of a broker. At this point in time, Mr and Mrs A had been residing in another property
since November 2018, which Ill refer to as property S. The insurance policy they renewed
covered the property they owned, which Ill refer to as property L.
In February 2019, a family member of Mr and Mrs A moved into property L on a full-time
basis. Mr and Mrs A had been staying in property L one day a week up until this point, and
property L was still their listed address on the electoral roll.
In March 2019, a fire broke out in property L due to an electrical fault with a bathroom ceiling
light. This caused significant damage to the roof of the property. So, Mr and Mrs A contacted
HDI to make a claim. HDI instructed a third party, who Ill refer to as M, to complete a
specialist report on the circumstances of the claim. This report confirmed the most likely
cause of the fire as an electrical fault, but also raised questions about the occupancy of
property L.
HDI considered the issues raised in the report and decided to void Mr and Mrs A insurance
policy from the point of renewal as they felt they werent made aware of the change in
occupancy. And because the policy was voided, it was unable to pay the claim. So, they
refunded the premiums Mr and Mrs A had paid up until that point and explained they
wouldnt be covering the cost of the repairs needed to fix the damage.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with this decision, so they raised a complaint. They thought
property L was still their primary residence. They explained the property still housed their
furniture and they were returning several times a week to collect post and feed their pet fish.
So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not making the broker aware of their
move to property S, so the broker could pass the information on to the insurer.
They explained theyd made sure the house was occupied at least once a week until the
family member moved in on an informal agreement in February 2019. But this was done so
to make sure they maintained the conditions of the policy in relation to the risk of theft. They
didnt think the occupancy issue affected this claim as a family member was living in property
L when the fire occurred. This prevented further damage as the family member was able to
report the issue and prevent the fire from spreading further. So, they wanted HDI to reinstate
their policy and reconsider the claim, as well as pay compensation for the delays to the
repairs. They also wanted HDI to reimburse them for the legal costs theyve incurred when
taking advice on the matter.
HDI didnt agree. They thought Mr and Mrs A failed to make them aware of the change in
occupancy when they renewed the policy in December 2018, after theyd moved into
property S. HDI explained if theyd been made aware of this change, they wouldnt have
insured property L. So, they thought their decision to cancel the policy and decline the claim
was a fair one and didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr and Mrs A remained
unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought Mr and Mrs A still
believed property L to be their primary residence when they renewed the policy. And she
didnt think the terms of the policy, or the questions asked during the renewal call with the
broker, wouldve led Mr and Mrs A to realise the change in occupancy needed to be
declared. So, she didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not doing so. She also thought
that by allowing a family member to live in property L without paying rent, they hadnt
intentionally or unfairly mis-led HDI about the situation. So, she didnt think HDIs decision to
decline the claim was fair and recommended them to pay the claim in full, plus 8% interest
from the date of loss to date of settlement. Mr and Mrs A agreed with this view.
But, HDI didnt. They argued that Mr and Mrs A shouldve made them aware of the change
of occupancy. And they explained that the terms of the policy explain a family member can
live in property L as well as Mrs and Mrs A, but not instead of. So, they thought their original
decision to cancel the policy and decline the claim was fair. As HDI didnt agree, the
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2020, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention not to
uphold the complaint.
First, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Mr and Mrs A. Ive no doubt it
wouldve been traumatic when they realised the extent of the damage caused by the fire 
especially when they were going through the process of selling property L. And I can
understand why this wouldve been made worse by HDIs decision to cancel the insurance
policy and not pay the claim. I want to re-assure Mr and Mrs A I have taken all of this into
serious consideration when deciding the complaint.
The law is a relevant consideration for our service when we decide complaints. The
legislation thats relevant here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires a customer to take reasonable care not to not make any
misrepresentation to the insurer when applying for, or renewing, their cover. If a
misrepresentation is made, and found to be a qualifying misrepresentation, then the insurer
will be allowed to take certain actions set out in the Act.
If the customer fails to take reasonable care, and the insurer can show they wouldnt have
entered into the insurance contract, or would have but only on different terms, then the
misrepresentation is regarded as qualifying.
HDI declined the claim as they felt they werent made aware of Mr and Mrs As move to
property S. Theyve explained if they had been, they wouldnt have offered cover as the
policy is designed to be the policyholders primary residence, and they didnt think property L
was in this instance. Where an insurer can show that the customer made a qualifying
misrepresentation, and the insurer wouldnt have offered cover at all, the law allows them to
avoid the contract and decline any claims  as HDI have done here. So, Ive had to consider
whether HDI were fair to take this stance and whether Mr and Mrs A took reasonable care
during their renewal.
Mr and Mrs A were sent a renewal notice from both HDI and the broker in November 2018.HDIs renewal notice listed property L as the primary residence and included a policy
schedule which listed changes they needed to know about. This explained Mr and Mrs A
needed to make the broker aware of any change in occupancy.
On the renewal call with the broker in December 2018, Mrs A was asked whether there were
any large changes in her situation that she needed to declare. And, she was asked whether
she wanted the policy to continue. On this call, she asked for the policy to continue but did
ask whether shed be able to cancel the policy as they were intending to sell property L. So,
Ive had to consider whether Mr and Mrs A mis-represented the information they gave to the
broker at the time of renewal.
Ive read in depth the specialist report completed by M after HDIs instruction. This report
validated the cause of the fire in property L but also raised concerns about the policy itself
due to a change in occupancy.
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs A moved out of property L and into property S. From the
report, I can see it was Mr and Mrs As long-term intention to move into property S
permanently and so they put property L up for sale.
From mid-November 2018 to the policy renewal in December 2018, Mr and Mrs A confirmed
they were staying at property L one night a week. They confirmed in the report they would
arrive at property L in an evening and leave early the next morning. They explained this was
to ensure the property was safe and to collect post which was still being delivered to the
house. Mr and Mrs A have also explained they did this to make sure they stayed within the
policy conditions of not leaving property L unoccupied for more than 30 days.
I want to stress that I dont believe Mr and Mrs A withheld information purposely. I do think
they took all attempts to act reasonably by staying at the property once a week until a family
member moved in permanently in February 2019. And I understand Mr and Mrs As view that
by doing so, and then moving a family member in, they were actively trying to mitigate any
risk to the property by ensuring it was occupied.
But, crucially, I think Mr and Mrs A had an obligation to make HDI aware of their decision to
reside in another property six nights a week. Mr and Mrs A moved into property S with the
intention of residing there permanently once property L had been sold. So, on the balance of
probability, I dont think its likely they were ever intending to occupy property L permanently
again. And because of this, I think this qualified as a large change to their living
circumstances. So, I think this needed to be declared to the broker at the point of renewal.
And after listening to that renewal call, it wasnt.
The insurance policy they held with HDI required property L to be their permanent residence.
I appreciate they left a large amount of their furniture at property L, and they were still listed
at property L on the electoral role. So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs A didnt realise this
change needed to be declared.
But, as Ive already stated, any change in occupancy needed to be declared. And at the
point of renewal, the property was unoccupied six nights a week. I think this change needed
to be declared as it altered the risk that HDI were insuring for  so I think they were entitled
to say that Mr and Mrs A didnt take reasonable care at the time of renewal.
HDI have explained that, had this change been declared, the policy wouldnt have been sold
as they didnt class staying in property L one night a week to be a permanent residence. Ive
been provided with HDIs occupancy rules that they use when underwriting insurance
policies. And I can see that any policy where the insured address isnt classed as a primary
residence would be declined. So, I think its likely the policy wouldnt have been sold. And inthat situation, HDI are legally allowed to avoid the contract. Because of this, Im unable to
say this was unfair for them do. And as the policy was cancelled from the point of renewal, it
meant there was no valid policy in place to cover the costs of the damage the fire caused.
So, I think their decision to decline the claim was a fair one and in line with the relevant law.
For completeness, Ive also considered Mr and Mrs As point they raised about the family
member moving in permanently to mitigate the risk to the property. And I am satisfied this
person was classed as a family member. While I do understand how having a family
member in the property ensured the fire was noticed immediately, I still think this breached a
policy condition.
The policy defines family living at the address as You and your spouse, civil partner or 
domestic partner, children, foster children, parents and other relatives all permanently living 
in the home. Crucially, this definition explains it as any family member living in the home 
alongside the policy holders, not instead of. So, when Mr and Mrs A stopped residing at 
property L altogether in February, this was another change of occupancy that wouldve 
needed to be disclosed. And again, I cant see that it was.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs A were hoping for. And I understand the
financial impact this situation has caused and the upset thats arisen because of that. Ive no
doubt Mr and Mrs A believed they were acting in the best interests of property L and thought
they were taking reasonable steps to mitigate any risk property L was under due to the
change in occupancy. But, its my role to decide whether I think HDI acted fairly and in line
with the law. And from this, whether their decision to cancel the policy from the date of
renewal was reasonable. In this situation, I think it was, so I dont think they need to do
anything further.
Responses
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with my provisional decision. They didnt think the decision was 
fair as it focused on CIDRA when they felt the original view by the investigator applied fair 
and reasonable regulatory tests. They thought the question HDI asked Mrs A on the 
telephone when renewing the policy was brief and asked in an off-hand way. They didnt 
think this made it clear to Mrs A that she needed to disclose any further information.
And they also thought property L was their primary residence as they were paying the 
mortgage, had their post delivered to this address and kept the majority of their belongings 
there. So, again, they didnt think they needed to disclose the fact they were staying at 
property S the majority of the week.
Finally, they didnt agree that their family member staying at the property breached the 
occupancy condition of their policy. They maintained that by having a family member stay at 
the property, it mitigated the risk to property L meaning the risk was the same as if they were 
residing there permanently. So, they thought the policy was valid and the claim should be 
paid. 
HDI accepted the provisional decision and provided no further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my conclusions.I realise my provisional decision came as a shock to Mr and Mrs A, as they agreed with our 
investigators initial view. So, I can understand why in their comments to my provisional 
decision, they explain they felt the investigators view was fairer and more reasonable.
But I want to re-assure Mr and Mrs A Ive considered their complaint in line with our 
guidelines. And when looking at complaints such as theirs, we look at the insurers actions 
and whether they were in line with CIDRA. I recognise we are not a court of law and that isnt 
the purpose of the decision Ive made. But we consider the guidelines set out in CIDRA as 
this provides us with expectations on what wed expect insurers to do in certain situations 
and the actions theyre legally allowed to take. This allows us to make a decision on whether 
we think they acted fairly. And in this situation, I think HDI have.
I understand Mr and Mrs A think the question Mrs A was asked on the renewal call was brief 
and off-hand. But the renewal notice sent to Mr and Mrs A before this call explained any 
change in occupancy needed to be disclosed. At the time of the call, they were only staying 
at property L one night a week. I think this classes as a change in occupancy as they were 
spending most of their time outside of the property. So, when HDI asked Mrs A if there were 
any large changes, Id have expected this to be disclosed. And it wasnt.
As I explained in my decision, HDI have confirmed if they had been made aware of the 
change in occupancy, they wouldnt have classed property L as Mr and Mrs As primary 
residence. So, they wouldnt have offered cover to Mr and Mrs A. Ive seen HDIs 
underwriting criteria which confirms this is the case. And because of this, HDI are able to 
void the policy under CIDRA. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly when doing so.
I understand Mr and Mrs A dont agree with HDIs stance and maintain property L was their 
primary residence. But, had Mr and Mrs A disclosed the change in occupancy as Id have 
expected them to, they wouldve been made aware of HDIs stance and wouldve been able 
to seek cover elsewhere.
Im aware Mr and Mrs A let a family member stay in property L to mitigate the risk of leaving 
it unattended. And I dont doubt by doing so, they mitigated the damage the fire caused as 
this family member was able to report the fire immediately. But, the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs As policy define family living at the address to be anyone living alongside the 
policy holder, not instead of. So, even though Mr and Mrs As decision to allow a family 
member to live at property L did mitigate the risk, it didnt mean they were acting within the 
terms of the policy they held.
And again, as they werent staying at property L at all by this point, I think this was another 
occupancy change that needed to be disclosed. And again, it wasnt. 
So, while I understand the severity of the situation Mr and Mrs A find themselves in and 
financial impact this has had, I cant say HDI acted unfairly when declining the claim and 
voiding the policy. So, I dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs A and Mr As complaint about HDI Global 
Specialty SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman