DRN-3161092
The complaint
The complaint relates Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limiteds involvement in a 
transfer of part of Mr Gs personal pension fund to a SIPP (self invested personal pension) to 
invest £18,000 in Ethical Forestry Limited.  
What happened
Mr G consulted Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited (BWM) in 2012. 
The documents Ive seen include a fact find, an attitude to risk assessment and BWMs 
letter, headed, Record of Suitability  Retirement Planning, dated 18 June 2012. The fact 
find shows Mr G was 51, married and employed. Hed been a member of his employers final 
salary pension scheme since 2001 and he was also paying the maximum AVCs (additional 
voluntary contributions). He only wanted to discuss his personal pension which had a fund 
value of about £48,000. Hed seen a newspaper advertisement about Ethical Forestry and 
he wanted advice about investing, using the gains hed made on a previous investment in an 
emerging markets fund. 
BWMs letter of 18 June 2012 set out Mr Gs aims and objectives as:  
To consider an investment of £18,000 (about one third of the value of his personal 
pension) in Ethical Forestry using part of his existing personal pension fund.
To consider how that investment will be held in a SIPP. 
To research Ethical Forestry and ensure the investment proposition is bona fide. 
The letter went on to say that Mr G had been assessed as being a medium to high risk 
investor. But hed previously self selected investments for his personal pension and had 
invested in funds which were higher risk. Hed made significant gains from one and wanted 
to use that gain (about £18,000) to invest in something out of the box and not necessarily 
linked to the stock market. 
The adviser had undertaken research into investing in timber  which he described as a 
fairly niche market and an alternative investment class. From what hed read, the outlook for 
timber was especially strong. Ethical Forestry was an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS). It offered three investment options. The first was a twelve year investment, 
with each unit having 200 trees and costing £6,000 so Mr G was considering three units at a 
total cost of £18,000. The letter stressed that the investment was very high risk. It also said 
the anticipated returns should be viewed with caution. 
The letter said Mr Gs suitability for this type of investment had been assessed. He had the 
security of his final salary pension and his AVCs and a separate consolidated personal 
pension. He was comfortable with the risks. To invest hed need to transfer part of his 
personal pension fund into a SIPP. Hed transfer £20,000 with the additional £2,000 to cover 
fees and costs. There was a list of risk warnings at the end of the letter. 
Mr G went ahead with the transfer to the SIPP and the investment of £18,000 in Ethical 
Forestry. 
In December 2015 liquidators were appointed to Ethical Forestry Limited. Mr Gs annual 
SIPP statement issued in June 2016 showed a fund value of £1,053.97.
Mr Gs representative wrote to BWM on 25 March 2019 making a data subject access
request (DSAR). BWM treated the DSAR as a complaint about Mr Gs Ethical Forestry
investment.  
BWM sent a final response letter to Mr G on 4 June 2019. BWM didnt uphold the complaint. 
Amongst other things it said it hadnt given investment advice or made a specific investment 
recommendation  Mr G had approached it about investing in Ethical Forestry. BWM said it 
had stressed the investment was very high risk and illiquid, but Mr G was a medium to high 
risk investor and comfortable with the risks. The investment was a small part of his overall 
pension provision and he was only investing the gains hed made on another investment. 
Losing £18,000 wouldnt affect his overall retirement plans.
BWM also said the complaint was time barred. The investment had been made over six
years earlier, in June 2012. It had collapsed in December 2015 and liquidators were
appointed. That was more than three years before Mr Gs complaint had been made.
The investigator thought the complaint hadnt been made too late. BWM didnt accept that 
and so the complaint was referred to me to decide if we could consider it.  
Ive issued two provisional jurisdiction decisions (15 June 2021 and 15 September 2021) and 
a jurisdiction decision (6 October 2021). For the reasons I explained, I thought the complaint 
had been made in time. Essentially a complaint has to be made within six years of the event 
complained of or, if later, within three years of when the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. I said the DSAR and 
the accompanying letter of authority did amount to a complaint as defined. Mr Gs complaint 
was made on 25 March 2019. I maintained hed complained within three years of when he 
became aware or reasonably ought to have become aware he had cause for complaint. 
One of our investigators then looked into the merits of the complaint. He thought it should be 
upheld. In summary he said:
It wasnt disputed that Mr G had approached BWM. 
The investment in Ethical Forestry was a UCIS. In July 2010 the then regulator, the 
Financial Services Authority, issued a UCIS Good and Poor Practice report. An 
example of good practice was limiting, if UCIS investment was appropriate at all, a 
customers portfolio to holding 3 - 5% in UCIS.
Whilst BWM had reiterated that they hadnt promoted the UCIS to Mr G, the 
regulators factsheet on UCIS clarified that, hen recommending a UCIS (which is 
what happened here), the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9 rule, about 
suitability, applied. BWM had to gather information about the client to establish if the 
UCIS was suitable for him.
The question was, taking into account Mr Gs circumstances, if it was suitable to 
advise him to switch £20,000 from his existing personal pension to a SIPP to invest 
in Ethical Forestry.
The adviser had said the investment was very high risk and more than Mr Gs 
assessed attitude to investment risk. Mr G had been a member of his employers pension scheme for just over ten years. 
But an investment of £18,000 wasnt an insignificant sum of money. He had short 
term borrowing and a mortgage. He was saving through his employers share 
scheme but he didnt appear to have substantial cash reserves. Even if his attitude to 
investment risk was medium  high, his capacity for loss didnt mirror that. 
The recommendation increased the administration costs of his pension plans, took 
risks which were too high for Mr G and concentrated a large amount of his pension 
savings in a niche, unregulated, illiquid and high risk fund. If the regulators good 
practice example is taken into account, which had by then been published, too much 
was recommended to be invested in a UCIS.
Suitable advice ought to have been to advise Mr G against investing in Ethical 
Forestry.
The investigator went on to consider, if suitable advice had been given, whether Mr G 
wouldve insisted on investing. On balance, the investigator thought Mr G wouldve accepted 
a recommendation not to invest in Ethical Forestry. The investigator set out how Mr G should 
be redressed  on the basis that hed have retained the money in his existing personal 
pension, but taking into account that adventurous funds werent appropriate for him and how 
hed have invested, after June 2012, with suitable pension investment advice. 
BWM didnt agree with the investigator. It said that, during meetings (and as recorded in the 
letter dated 18 June 2012), Mr G had said he was happy to take a punt on this. He wanted 
to invest and couldve been treated as an insistent client. The adviser had documented and 
highlighted that it was a very high risk investment and hadnt specifically recommended it  
Mr G had chosen it himself. The adviser researched which SIPP operators would accept the 
investment, which the adviser just facilitated. 
BWM referred to the fact find which noted Mr Gs attitude to life as see it, spend it. Mr G 
was fully aware of the risks, he understood the investment and was just using the profit hed 
made on the emerging markets fund, an investment hed again chosen himself. He was 
more adventurous than his assessed attitude to risk would suggest. The investment matched 
his attitude to risk and life. The percentage invested isnt material to Mr Gs retirement 
income or pension provision and would easily have fallen within the 3% to 5% referred to by 
the investigator. It wasnt a substantial part of Mr Gs pension savings  he had a final salary 
pension with his employer and he was making the maximum (15%) AVCs. He had capacity 
for loss, as evidenced by his attitude and his comments.
The investigator considered BWMs comments. He agreed that Mr G had approached BWM 
after seeing a promotion about the investment and a substantial rise in the commodity 
investment fund hed held prior to the advice. So Mr G was likely receptive to the opportunity 
of the investment.  
Whilst it was stated to be a high risk investment, positive possible outcomes were noted. The 
investment wasnt made on an execution only basis. Therefore, BWM was required to 
provide suitable advice. The advice wasnt suitable for Mr Gs circumstances. £18,000 
wasnt a small sum. Mr G did have other pension assets. But with only ten years service in 
his employers scheme, it didnt seem hed have had a pension portfolio of around £400,000 
to £600,000 as a starting point to consider the advice.
The regulators factsheet about UCIS said, before recommending a UCIS, a firm will need to 
gather information about the client to establish whether the UCIS is suitable for that person 
and, if a UCIS is recommended, meet all suitability obligations. Including obtaining thenecessary information regarding the clients knowledge and experience in relation to UCIS 
and their financial situation and investment objectives. The UCIS was promoted to Mr G (not 
by BWM) but the requirement for suitable advice wouldve been to recommend not switching 
part of his personal pension to access the high risk investment.
BWM had said it couldve treated Mr G as an insistent customer. But theres no evidence he 
had a history of acting against the advice of financial advisers. In the investigators opinion, 
most customers accept the advice of professionals. Mr G had gone to BWM for advice and 
was relying upon it. On the balance of probability, hed have accepted suitable advice not to 
invest in Ethical Forestry. 
In reply BWM said Mr G hadnt taken any responsibility for his actions. Hed made his own 
investment decision after all the risks had been explained to him. The investigators view 
wasnt substantiated by any facts or evidence but was just his opinion. We should ask Mr G 
for a full list of all his pension assets. 
BWM also highlighted why Mr G had contacted it and his specific objectives/aims agreed as 
a priority and as documented in the fact find and suitability letter. The adviser had met the 
three objectives set out in the letter which didnt include providing investment advice or 
recommending Ethical Forestry but seeing if the investment was bona fide. If it hadnt been, 
the adviser would have mentioned that to Mr G and he wouldnt have invested.  But at the 
time there was no evidence to suggest it wasnt bona fide. It was being accepted by a 
number of SIPP operators which reassured the adviser and Mr G. The research undertaken 
included an article from Money Management in June 2011, a copy of which was provided 
and which had been shared with Mr G at the time.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered jurisdiction again. Although, as Ive said above, Ive thought about it 
before, were required to keep jurisdiction under review throughout our consideration of a 
complaint up to and until we issue a final decision. Ive done that and I maintain Mr Gs 
complaint has been made in time  within three years of when he became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint. 
Ive gone on to consider the merits of the complaint. Ive paid particular attention to what 
BWM has said. I understand why BWM feels strongly that the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
and that Mr G is responsible for the losses hes incurred. But I agree with the investigator 
that the complaint should be upheld and for the reasons he gave. 
BWM says the investigator failed to take into account all the material facts in reaching his 
conclusions. The investigator (and the same is true of an ombudsman) will take into account 
all the information and evidence thats been provided although they wont necessarily refer to 
everything when a view or decision is issued. Instead theyll concentrate on what they see as 
the key issues. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, we reach our conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities, that is what we consider is likely to have happened. 
Ive asked myself the same questions as the investigator: did BWM provide advice to Mr G; if 
so, was that advice suitable; if not, what would suitable advice have been; and what would 
Mr G have done if hed been given suitable advice. Ive considered each of those questions 
below. Did BWM advise Mr G?
Its not disputed that Mr G knew about Ethical Forestry before he approached BWM. I accept 
he was very interested in investing - the fact find records that he was keen (BWMs 
underlining) to invest. I further accept that hed sourced his own investments in the past. I 
dont have all the details of how much he invested in the emerging markets fund thats been 
mentioned. But it seems it generated a very healthy profit. Taking on a high degree of risk 
had paid off for Mr G. The success of that investment may have made him more comfortable 
with taking a high degree of risk and confident in his own ability to pick an investment that 
could do well despite the risks involved. 
But I dont think all that meant hed made a firm decision to invest. He went to BWM for 
advice. I dont think BWMs involvement was confined to seeking if the investment was bona 
fide and facilitating it. I say that taking into account: 
The fact find records that Mr G specifically wanted pension advice and how to use 
part of his [personal pension fund] to invest in Ethical Forestry. It also says Mr G is 
considering a very high risk investment  Ethical Forestry  via his pension. That fits 
in with what Ive said about him not having made a firm decision to invest, even 
though he was clearly thinking about investing. 
The heading to BWMs letter of 18 June 2012 suggests that its about suitability. And 
the letter opens by saying it details the advisers professional recommendations 
appropriate to Mr Gs circumstances. It refers to him having made an initial enquiry 
which again is consistent with Mr G having expressed interest in investing in Ethical 
Forestry but not having finally decided. 
The first objective set out is to consider an £18,000 investment in Ethical Forestry. 
Consider means to think about carefully and is consistent with giving advice. Its 
separate to and wider than the third objective. I dont agree that BWMs involvement 
was limited to researching Ethical Forestry and ensuring the investment proposition 
was bona fide.
BWMs letter may stop short of expressly stating that the adviser is recommending 
the proposed investment in Ethical Forestry. But there are positive comments  for 
example, that the outlook for timber is especially strong and it may be a good long 
term hedge against inflation. Theres specific reference to the twelve year investment 
option being appropriate for Mr G. 
The letter goes on to say that the adviser has assessed Mr Gs suitability for UCIS 
investment, including how his retirement fund might be affected. Mr Gs other 
pension arrangements are mentioned and the clear inference is that he can afford to 
take a high degree of risk with this particular money. So suitability has been 
addressed which is consistent with advice having been given. The letter goes on to 
set out how the investment can be achieved, via a SIPP. 
All in all I think the letter was as its heading suggested  a suitability report. Mr G wouldve 
understood from the letter that BWM was recommending that he invest in Ethical Forestry. If 
BWMs view was that Mr G shouldnt invest, the letter shouldve made that clear. 
Was investing £18,000 in Ethical Forestry suitable for Mr G? BWM may not have promoted the investment, a UCIS, to Mr G. But Ive found that BWM did 
advise Mr G. As the investigator pointed out, BWMs recommendation had to be suitable for 
Mr G. I agree with the investigator that the investment wasnt suitable for him.   
BWM had stressed that the investment was very high risk. Mr G had been assessed as a 
medium to high risk investor. But the Ethical Forestry investment carried a higher degree of 
risk. And I cant see that Mr G had the capacity for loss that sort of investment might (and 
did) bring about. He did have other pension provision. But the money he invested in Ethical 
Forestry represented about a third of his personal pension. I think it was a substantial 
amount. I dont think his other pension provision meant he could afford to take a very high 
degree of risk with that money. 
BWM only obtained limited information about Mr Gs overall pension provision and his other 
assets. I cant see that BWM could reasonably have formed the view that he had sufficient 
capacity for loss to invest £18,000 in Ethical Forestry. Mr G may have been investing the 
profit hed made on a previous high risk investment. But I dont think that meant he could 
afford to lose that money. 
BWM may have told Mr G, more than once, that the investment was very high risk and set 
out the risk factors. But just making an investor aware of the risks isnt enough. And Mr G 
may have said he was prepared to take a risk on the investment. But that doesnt mean he 
shouldve been advised to take that level of risk with that amount of money. 
BWM says that Mr G must accept some responsibility for his investment decision. But the 
point is that hed gone to BWM for advice as to whether he should invest. BWM had to 
consider suitability. If the recommendation was unsuitable then BWM is primarily responsible 
for the losses Mr G has suffered in consequence of acting on that unsuitable advice. 
As the investigator noted, the recommendation increased the administration costs of Mr Gs 
pension plans, took risks which were too high for Mr G and concentrated a large amount of 
his pension savings in a niche, unregulated, illiquid and high risk fund. It was unsuitable for 
Mr G. 
What would suitable advice have been?
If BWM had given suitable advice BWM shouldve told Mr G that he shouldnt invest £18,000 
in Ethical Forestry. 
What would Mr G have done if BWM had advised him not to invest in Ethical Forestry?
Its often not possible to say with certainty and without the benefit of hindsight what someone 
wouldve done if things had been dealt with differently. In that sort of situation we have to 
reach a decision based on what we think is likely to have happened. Well take into account 
such evidence as there is as well as the wider circumstances. 
On the one hand I can see why BWM says Mr G wouldve gone ahead anyway. Ive 
accepted that he was keen to invest in Ethical Forestry. And that he may well have been 
fairly confident in his own ability to select more esoteric investments whose performance 
wasnt necessarily correlated with established markets.  BWM has also drawn attention to 
the see it, spend it note on the fact find. And the letter dated 18 June 2012 records Mr G as 
saying he was happy to take a punt. 
But Mr G had gone to BWM for professional financial advice. He was relying on that advice 
to decide whether or not to go ahead with the investment. Id expect, in most cases, and 
despite how interested they might have been in the particular product or investment initially, a client to take seriously advice from a qualified financial professional. I see limited point in 
seeking advice just to then disregard it. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr G had a 
history of acting against professional advice. 
Here his investment in Ethical Forestry was made with BWMs support and endorsement  
BWM didnt tell Mr G not to invest and BWM facilitated the setting up of the SIPP and the 
investment in Ethical Forestry. I think clear advice from BWM that it couldnt recommend the 
investment and why is likely to have given Mr G pause for thought. 
And, if hed still wanted to invest, BWM wouldve needed to have treated him as an insistent 
client  that is one who wanted to proceed despite advice to the contrary. I think the process 
that wouldve needed to have been followed if BWM had treated Mr G as an insistent client 
wouldve concentrated his mind on whether he really wanted to invest when hed been 
advised against. 
At the time (2012) the COBS rules didnt make specific provision for insistent clients. COBS 
9.5A now contains additional guidance for firms with insistent clients. Including the 
information that must be communicated to an insistent client (COBS 9.5A.3G) and what 
acknowledgement is required from the client (COBS 9.5A.4G). 
Prior to that firms which were prepared to transact insistent client business wouldve had a 
process in place to deal with such clients. Its likely to have been similar to what COBS 9.5A 
now says. Id expect it to involve asking the client to sign documentation recording that they 
are proceeding against the advice given. And to explain why they are prepared to act 
contrary to the advisers advice. The conversations around that  including why a 
recommendation to invest cant be made - are likely to concentrate a clients mind as to the 
advisability of proceeding against professional advice. 
On balance, I think Mr G wouldve accepted a recommendation not to invest in Ethical 
Forestry and wouldve retained that money in his personal pension.
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. 
I agree with the redress suggested by the investigator, so Ive adopted it and set it out again. 
I think Mr G wouldve have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
wouldve done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr G fairly Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited must: 
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited must also pay any interest as set out below. 
If theres a loss, Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited should pay into Mr Gs pension 
plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Gs 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected marginal rate of tax 
at his selected retirement age. I think Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr G wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation. 
In addition, Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited should pay Mr G £300 for the 
unsuitable advice to set up a SIPP and invest in Ethical Forestry. This has caused a 
substantial loss which had caused upset to Mr G.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Braemar Wealth Management (NW) 
Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been take off and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Intelligent 
Money 
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited should 
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as above. 
If Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited is unable to purchase the investment the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Braemar Wealth 
Management (NW) Limited may wish to require that Mr G provides an undertaking to pay it 
any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a returnusing the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Gs circumstances and risk attitude.
SIPP fees
The SIPP exists because of the unregulated and illiquid investment Ethical Forestry
investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees avoided, the investment 
needs to be removed. But if Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited cant buy it, and the 
SIPP provider wont write it off so that the SIPP can be closed, Mr G will be faced with future 
SIPP fees. I think its fair to assume five years of future SIPP fees. So Braemar Wealth 
Management (NW) Limited should pay Mr G an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees 
based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Braemar Wealth Management (NW) Limited must redress Mr G as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman