DRN-4228008
Complaint
Miss F has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Miss F with a loan for £250 in November 2021. This loan had an APR of 770% 
and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £51.39 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Fs complaint and she thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly. So she didnt think that Miss Fs complaint should 
be upheld. Miss F disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 12 June 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 12 June 2023 - setting out why I was intending to uphold 
Miss Fs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Miss Fs 
complaint.
I explained that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether   
Miss F could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I explained that L2G may have thought that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a 
light touch assessment was proportionate here. But I was mindful that it had determined that 
Miss Fs income was significantly lower that shed declared. And the credit check it carried 
out showed Miss F had a number of defaults. 
So I was persuaded by what Miss F has said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. And while it was possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than 
because she was struggling, I added that my experience of these types of cases suggested 
that this was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would more like than not have 
shown that Miss F wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without experiencing undue 
difficulty or borrowing further. 
All of this left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss F. And as L2G provided 
Miss F with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss F ended up paying (and was still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on 
a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So it was my intention to conclude that Miss F 
lost out because of what L2G did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss F confirmed that she agreed with my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
L2G confirmed that it didnt have anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Fs complaint in my provisional 
decision of 12 June 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Miss Fs 
complaint. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss F
Having thought about everything, I think that t would be fair and reasonable for L2G to put 
things right for Miss F by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss F made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £250 originally lent. If Miss F has 
already repaid more than £250 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss F;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss F to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-party 
debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account and 
its the case that Miss F is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 12 June 2023, Im 
upholding Miss Fs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman