DRN-1619676
Complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mrs E, who is represented by a third party, says Canada Square Operations Limited 
(CSOL), trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold her the policy.
Background
The policy was sold when Mrs E applied for a credit card on-line in January 2003.
Our adjudicator in this case thought the complaint should be upheld because of Mrs Es 
employment status as a temporary worker. But CSOL didnt agree and the case has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint.
The central issue in this case is whether Mrs E could have ever made a successful claim on 
the PPI policy because of the type of work she was in. CSOL has defended this case by 
saying Mrs E hadnt been consistent about her employment status and that shed given 
different information when she applied for the card  saying she was employed - in contrast 
to when she made her complaint some years later and said she was a temporary worker. 
CSOL told us it would have been possible for Mrs E to show she was in temporary 
employment on her internet application form. 
Mrs E has explained in her complaint to us that she was a temporary worker employed on a 
long-term contract. So I think it is understandable that she could have described herself as 
being employed at the time. But I dont think this is an issue that ultimately affects my finding 
that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ive seen that CSOL has queried the fact that Mrs E apparently worked for the same 
employer for several years. However, Mrs E has clarified that whilst she received much of 
her temporary work from one particular agency, she was registered with and obtained 
temporary work from several others. Whilst its unfortunate that shes been unable to obtain 
documentary evidence about this, it is not altogether surprising after so many years. 
From what Ive seen, even if Mrs E had put temporary worker on the internet application 
form she would still have been taken to the same set of policy terms and conditions. When 
Mrs E made her application for the credit card, CSOL was under an obligation to provide 
information about the PPI policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. This was so Mrs E 
could make an informed decision about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI.I think there were significant failings by CSOL in this respect and I dont think it should have 
sold her the policy.
Ive looked over the internet pages CSOL sent to us and which it said Mrs E would have 
used to fill out her application. At the point where Mrs E would have been asked to decide 
whether she wanted PPI, there are some headline bullet-points about eligibility. This 
includes information about age, nationality and confirmation that the applicant is in work - 
which Mrs E was.
There then follows around 15 pages of terms and conditions. These pages contained 
information saying that the policy insurer would not pay unemployment benefit to customers 
employed on a temporary basis. This important issue wasnt highlighted at the point Mrs E 
would have made her choice about buying PPI. I also think the statement about being in 
work is significantly different to the information contained much deeper in the policys 
conditions. Mrs E could have easily  and understandably  thought that she was eligible.
I think that this would have mattered a great deal to Mrs E. If shed known about it, I dont 
think she would have bought the policy. I dont think she would have considered it good 
value for money.
Given that the information CSOL used to sell the policy during its internet sales process 
wasnt sufficiently clear,  I think Mrs E has lost out as a result of CSOL's failings in this case 
and it follows Im upholding her complaint.
What the business should do to put things right
CSOL should put Mrs E in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A          CSOL should find out how much Mrs E would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
CSOL should then refund the difference between what Mrs E owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CSOL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B          CSOL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs E would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C          If  when CSOL works out what Mrs E would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs E paid more than enough to clear her balance, CSOL should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs E paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs E would 
have owed CSOL something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D          CSOL should tell Mrs E what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CSOL to take off tax from this interest. CSOL must give 
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint and I direct Canada Square 
Operations Limited to pay Mrs E compensation in accordance with the calculation set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman