DRN-3076542
The complaint
Miss B complains about her hire purchase agreement (agreement) with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) was sold to 
her, and how her later voluntary termination of it was handled.
Reference to VWFS in this decision also includes it agents.
What happened
In September 2016 Miss B entered into an agreement with VWFS for the acquisition of a 
new car with a cash price of £19,731.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss B undertook to make 
an advance payment of £2,535.36, followed by 48 monthly payments of £237.52, followed by 
a final payment of £9,343.75  making a total repayable £23,280.07 at an APR of 6.7%.
Miss B says that before entering into the agreement:
She asked for an annual mileage allowance of 15,000, but was persuaded to agree 
to an annual mileage allowance of 10,000.
She was advised it wouldnt matter if she went over the 10,000 annual mileage 
allowance.
She was advised that the supplying dealership would contact her halfway through the 
agreement to renew.
It was explained to her that the car would have equity halfway through the 
agreement.
It was explained to her that you normally have paid half of the agreement by the time 
the agreement is halfway in.
It was never explained to her what a balloon payment was.
In July 2019 Miss B looked to change her car. And she says it was then that she discovered 
it was in negative equity (with more being owed under the agreement in respect of the car 
than the car was worth) and that if she voluntary terminated the agreement, as was her right, 
she would still owe VWFS in the region of £1,000.
In August 2019, and having spoken with VWFS in July 2019, Miss B voluntary terminated 
her agreement on the understanding that she would be required to pay an excess mileage 
charge and a damages charge, but not a voluntary termination shortfall charge.
Shortly after terminating the agreement VWFS sought from Miss B £1,514.11 made up of a 
£791.47 voluntary termination shortfall charge, a £312.24 excess mileage charge and a 
£410.40 damages charge.
This charge was then reduced to £877.87 after Miss B paid £158.40 of the damages charge 
and after VWFS agreed to waive £165.60 of the damages charge and to waive £312.24 
(100%) of the excess mileage charge. The £877.87 was made up of the following elements:
damages charge*1 £86.40
excess Mileage charge £0.00
voluntary termination shortfall charge*2 £791.47
*1 two scratched alloy wheels at £43.20 (including VAT) each
*2 £11,640.03 (50% of £23,280.07) less £2,535.36 (advance payment) less £8,313.20 (35 monthly payments of £237.52)
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld in part. In summary he said:
Miss B should have reasonably been aware, at the time she entered into the 
agreement, how far into the agreement she would need to be able to voluntary 
terminate it without having to pay  everything else being equal  anything further to 
VWFS.
Even had Miss B been given clearer information than she was given, when she 
enquired about voluntary terminating her agreement, she would have still  on the 
balance of probabilities  voluntary terminated it when she did.
But for the lack of clarity about what Miss Bs obligations might be on terminating her 
agreement when she did, VWFS should redress Miss B £200.
VWFS was under no obligation to carry out the repairs Miss B was charged for.
VWFS had done nothing wrong in recording what It had, about the conduct of 
Miss Bs agreement, with third party credit reference agencies.
VWFS agreed with investigators view. However, Miss B didnt. And because Miss B didnt 
agree with the investigators view her complaint has been passed to me for review and 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.Miss B says she asked for an annual mileage allowance of 15,000, but was persuaded to 
agree to an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 on the understanding it wouldnt matter if 
she went over it.
Now I accept I cant say for certain what was, or wasnt, discussed with Miss B about the 
annual mileage allowance. But I dont need to make a finding on this issue because VWFS 
has agreed to waive the excess mileage charge of £312.24 it was initially seeking from 
Miss B.
Miss B says she was advised that the supplying dealership would contact her halfway 
through the agreement to renew. Now Im not sure what Miss B means by renew, but she 
didnt need to wait for the supplying dealership to contact her. In other words, Miss B was 
always free to contact the dealership herself if she wanted to, and at any time. Therefore Im 
not persuaded this particular issue warrants the making by me of any award in favour of 
Miss B.
Miss B says it was explained to her that halfway through the agreement the car would have 
equity and that she would have probably paid off half of the total sum payable under the 
agreement (of £11,640.03). And that it was never explained to her what a balloon payment 
was.
Again I accept I cant say for certain what was, or wasnt, discussed with Miss B about the 
terms of the agreement she entered into. But what Miss B says she was advised is simply 
not supported by the various paperwork, including paperwork Miss B has signed. So I dont 
uphold this aspect of Miss Bs complaint.
Now its not in dispute that VWFS could have been clearer in its communications with Miss B 
(in mid-2019) about what she might be required to pay on voluntary terminating her 
agreement (when she did) and what help and support it might be able to provide regarding 
any shortfall. And for this lack of clarity Miss B should be fairly compensated. 
Now like the investigator Im satisfied (given what Miss B has said about her circumstances 
in mid-2019) that even had VWFS been clearer in its communications Miss B would have 
still gone ahead and voluntary terminated the agreement (and when she did). And that she 
would have always been required to pay (at some time in the future) a £791.47 voluntary 
termination shortfall. So with this in mind, I find that £200 (to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this particular issue has caused) constitutes an appropriate sum for me to 
award.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add:
Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that VWFS has done anything wrong in 
recording with third party credit reference agencies what it has up till now. However, 
VWFS should ensure that going forward this information accurately reflects the 
reduced sum being sought. 
VWFS actions in pursuing Miss B for the agreement arrears, although frustrating at 
times, doesnt, in my view, warrant compensation. In coming to this conclusion Ive 
had regard, amongst other things, to the number of arrears communications sent and 
when.
VWFS isnt obliged to repair damage for which it has charged a consumer for. This is 
because such charges are often raised not to meet the cost of repair but to reflect the 
loss in the cars value in an unrepaired state.Going forward, VWFS should continue to have regards to Miss Bs financial position 
and where appropriate continue to treat her with forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Audi 
Financial Services must:
remove the excess mileage charge from the sum being sought from Miss B, if it 
hasnt already been removed 
reduce the sum being sought from Miss B by £200
ensure any information recorded with credit reference agencies reflects the reduced 
sum being sought
continue to have regards to Miss Bs financial position and where appropriate 
continue to treat her with forbearance and due consideration
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman