DRN-3090448
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained about how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) dealt 
with a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G contacted Great Lakes to make an insurance claim when their water tank 
burst that led to an escape of water. Great Lakes accepted the claim and settled some of the 
damage. It declined to pay for the pipework. When Mr G and Mrs G disagreed with this, 
Great Lakes reviewed it and told Mr G and Mrs G it would be covered. The next day, Great 
Lakes told Mr G and Mrs G the pipes wouldnt be dealt with as part of the claim.
Mr G and Mrs G complained to Great Lakes. When Great Lakes replied, it said it had given 
incorrect information when it said the pipes would be covered under the claim. However, it 
maintained its decision not to pay to replace the pipes because it said Mr G and Mrs Gs 
plumber had recommended replacing the pipes to prevent further leaks, which was 
betterment. The pipes had been replaced to rectify the damage, not as a result of the escape 
of water. It offered £50 compensation because of the conflicting information.
So, Mr G and Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said the plumbers report showed that the issue with the tank was wear and tear and 
that the pipes were replaced as a preventative measure, rather than because they were 
damaged by the escape of water. She said this wasnt covered by the policy. She also said 
she thought the £50 compensation offered was a fair way to deal with Great Lakes changing 
its decision about whether part of the claim was covered.
As Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Mr G and Mrs G contacted a plumber when they had no heating and then found a leak. The 
plumber identified issues with the heating system and recommended the whole system be 
replaced. There was damage because of the escape of water and Great Lakes agreed to 
pay for some electrical and decoration work to deal with this.
So, Ive looked at whether Great Lakes should have covered more of the work carried out by 
the plumber. Great Lakes spoke to the plumber to check the cause of damage. The plumber 
explained that the cause was wear and tear because the cylinder was about 15 years old. 
Ive looked at the policy booklet and this said that wear and tear was excluded under the 
terms of the policy. 
Some pipework was replaced by the plumber. Looking at the plumbers report, this said:
Upon my advice the client changed everything electric, cylinders expansion vessels etc to 
assure the worry that nothing would break down again
So, I think some of the work carried out was to avoid issues in the future, rather than to deal 
with damage as a result of the escape of water. The policy didnt cover this sort of work. 
Great Lakes only needed to cover the work that dealt with the damage from the escape of 
water. 
Mr G has said that it was necessary to replace the pipework because the cylinder was 
blowing cold air on it. But I havent seen anything in the plumbers report to suggest this was 
the case or that the pipes were replaced for that reason rather than to prevent future issues. 
So, I think it was reasonable that Great Lakes didnt cover the cost of the pipework.
Ive also thought about what happened when Great Lakes accepted and then declined part 
of the claim. Great Lakes acknowledged that it had given incorrect information when it said 
part of the claim was covered. It quickly corrected this, but I can understand that Mr G and 
Mrs G would have been concerned by this. However, in the circumstances, I cant require 
Great Lakes to pay for damage that wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. Great 
Lakes offered £50 compensation because of its error. Based on what happened, I think that 
was reasonable.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Great Lakes to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman