DRN-4240463
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as A, complains that PayrNet Limited wont refund payments 
it didnt make.
Miss F, who is a partner of A, brings the complaint on As behalf.
ANNA Money, who As account is with, is an agent for PayrNet. For ease, Ill mainly refer to  
ANNA throughout the decision, although PayrNet are ultimately responsible for this 
complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that A isnt 
liable for payments it didnt authorise. 
ANNA hasnt refuted our investigators opinion that the disputed payments were 
unauthorised. To be clear, I agree. Thats because Im persuaded it was fraudsters, 
and not A, that consented to these payments when they used the merchants website 
with As card details and entered in a one time passcode (OTP) they tricked Miss F 
into sharing. 
Ive gone on to consider whether, in line with the PSRs, ANNA has shown theres a 
reason A shouldnt be refunded. While its not explicitly stated a reason, its pointed 
out how Miss F shared OTPs with fraudsters. So I think its relevant to consider 
whether she failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and 
keep As personalised security details safe  something which, if proven, would mean 
A wouldnt be entitled to a refund under the PSRs.
To assess this, Ive reflected on the circumstances on the scam. Miss F explained 
she received a call from someone who claimed to be from ANNAs fraud department, 
who told her someone had made fraudulent transactions from As account. They 
instructed her to share OTPs which shed receive by text to verify who she was and 
to return each payment to As account. 
I accept these messages referred to a purchase and told her not to share the OTPs. 
But Im mindful Miss F was acting in the heat of the moment, concerned for the safety 
of As account. So when these messages came through from ANNA, as shed been 
told to expect, I can see how Miss F felt comfortable sharing the information they 
asked for. And given the OTPs appeared first in the message, I can understand how 
she did that without reading the rest of the message. 
Taking this into account, Ive not been persuaded that she acted with very significant 
carelessness to conclude that she failed with gross negligence.
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider A can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and ANNA needs to put things right  by refunding As 
losses from the payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to compensate it for 
the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold As complaint. PayrNet Limited must:
Pay A the total of the unauthorised payments less any amount recovered or already 
refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman