DRN-2414621
The complaint
Miss P complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) misadvised her that her dog was 
uninsured.
Pinnacle uses intermediaries to administer its insurance and handle complaints on its behalf. 
For ease, references to Pinnacle include the acts and omissions of those intermediaries. 
What happened
In August 2019, Miss P took out pet insurance with Pinnacle for her dog, B, and two cats. 
Miss P says she called Pinnacle in September 2019 to make a claim for her dog, who had 
fallen severely ill, but was told she only had cover for her cats. She thought she must have 
made a mistake during the sale. 
Around July 2020, Miss P received renewal notices from Pinnacle  including a policy for her 
dog. She complained that it had previously told her B wasnt covered. As a result, she said B 
had been put down  as she couldnt afford the operation shed needed. 
Pinnacle said it couldnt locate a call from Miss P trying to make a claim. It also said it had 
sent her a letter in late August 2019 explaining that her direct debit hadnt been successful, 
so it would try again. And that, after the third unsuccessful attempt in late September 2019, 
her cover should have been cancelled. But this wasnt processed correctly. As a result, it 
didnt send out cancellation notice. And although no further payments were taken, renewal 
notice was then sent at the end of the original policy term. It offered £100 compensation for 
the confusion and upset this caused. 
Miss P referred the matter to our service. She maintained that Pinnacle had told her B wasnt 
covered, and also said her premiums had been taken successfully. But our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. On balance, she couldnt verify the call  or that the payments 
had been taken. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Miss P asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said 
Pinnacle had admitted fault when she complained, and that her vet had also sent Pinnacle 
an email confirming the claim call. The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Attempted claim
Miss P has been consistent in saying that she called Pinnacle in September 2019 to make a 
claim  and was told that B wasnt covered. But on balance, I cant safely conclude that the 
call took place as she recalls it. This is because:
Ive seen evidence that Pinnacle has searched its systems for the call, using the 
number she reports calling from  as well as another contact number. Theres no 
record of a call from Miss P around that time.
Miss P hasnt been able to provide any record of the call either. Shes explained she 
cant show it on her phone bill as shes since changed network providers. As she 
says she called whilst she was at the vet, and that they emailed Pinnacle following 
this, our investigator asked if she could get a copy of the vets email. But she says 
she doesnt believe they still have it. And Pinnacle cant find the email. 
Pinnacle didnt receive notification that the third payment attempt was unsuccessful 
until October 2019. So if Miss P had called in September 2019, I cant see what 
would have caused it to tell her B wasnt covered  but her cats were. There was still 
time to make up for the missed payment, which was to cover the multiple policies  
which were still active. I can also see the policies were linked on Pinnacles systems. 
So if it found the records for her cats, as she recalls, that should have brought up Bs 
cover too.
Ive seen the welcome letter and policy certificate Pinnacle sent Miss P in 
August 2019. This made it clear that B was covered, and was only sent around one 
month before she wanted to claim. Miss P has told us she wasnt sure if shed set up 
the cover correctly. But her records would have confirmed Bs cover.
Miss P says that, since calling Pinnacle after receiving the renewal, it admitted fault. But 
listening to the available calls and looking at the call notes, it seems Pinnacle was generally 
apologising for the situation without making a direct admission of fault for the attempted 
claim. It did admit it made a mistake with the cancellation, as Ill go on to address. But its 
told us that it doesnt think its at fault for the attempted claim. Thats also what it said in the 
final response it sent Miss P directly. Overall, whilst I appreciate how upsetting this whole 
ordeal has been for Miss P, theres simply not enough persuasive evidence for me to fairly or 
safely conclude that Pinnacle misadvised her about Bs cover. 
Premium collection and cancellation
The welcome pack and Pinnacles internal records show Mis P was due to pay for her 
policies via monthly direct debit, starting from late August 2019. Shes provided some 
screenshots of statements from around that time. I can see the initial payment on one of 
these. But Pinnacle has provided records from BACS, the organisation which runs the direct 
debit scheme, showing the payment was ultimately unsuccessful. I consider this consistent 
with the screenshot, as it appears there werent sufficient funds in her account to cover the 
payment. The screenshots dont substantiate that the payment was taken successfully, as 
they dont provide full and continuous records to show whether the payment later re-credited 
into her account  as generally happens when a direct debit is unsuccessful. Additionally, 
Pinnacle has provided a letter it sent Miss P at the time explaining it would attempt to retake 
the payment in mid-September 2019. So it seems unlikely this payment went through. Pinnacle re-attempted the payment on 16 September 2019. Again, whilst it appears to have 
gone out initially, BACS records show it was unsuccessful. There dont appear to have been 
sufficient funds in the account at that point either. And the statement records arent enough 
to confirm that the payment wasnt returned. Its a similar case with the third attempted 
payment on 30 September 2019  taking into account pre-requested payments. On balance, 
Im satisfied Pinnacle didnt receive the contractually-due payment for the policies.
Pinnacle says that, as well as the letter it sent Miss P following the first unsuccessful 
payment attempt, it should have sent her another letter after the second attempt notifying her 
it would try again. And that, after the third attempt, it should have sent her cancellation 
notice. But this didnt happen. According to its records, the policies werent cancelled 
properly. Instead, they remained on its system, inactive, with no further payments being 
taken. Then renewal notices were sent in July 2020.
 
Ive considered the impact these errors had on Miss P. For the reasons Ive explained 
above, I cant safely conclude that Pinnacle misadvised her about her cover in September 
2019. As a result, I cant hold it liable for the difficult decision she had to make about Bs 
operation. But she ought to have been better updated about the unsuccessful payment 
attempts and cancellation, and she shouldnt have been sent renewals if the policies had 
been properly cancelled. If Pinnacle had handled things correctly, I think this would have 
lessened her upset and shock. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied the £100 compensation 
it has offered fairly reflects the avoidable upset its errors caused her.
Miss P has suggested she may have been charged further for the inactive insurance 
policies. But Pinnacle has no record of any further payment attempts. And she hasnt 
provided statements showing any more payments being taken. She says she cant provide 
these as her bank now charges for them, and its difficult for her to get to branch to obtain 
them. Overall, the available evidence doesnt substantiate that Pinnacle received any 
payments for the insurance policies Miss P took out. 
I do appreciate how upsetting this whole situation has been for Miss P. Im very sorry to hear 
about Bs passing, and the difficult circumstances surrounding this  which will no doubt 
make this outcome even more disappointing. My role is to fairly and impartially weigh up all 
the evidence to decide whats more likely. And the available evidence doesnt substantiate 
the errors she alleges that Pinnacle made. So Ive decided the compensation it has already 
offered is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
Pinnacle Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle this complaint. I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that Pinnacle Insurance Plc 
should pay Miss P £100, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman