DRN-4266359
The complaint
Miss V complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined her travel insurance 
claim. My references to Admiral include its agents. Miss V is represented in her complaint by 
her father, but Ill just refer to Miss V.
What happened
Miss V had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, Admiral was the insurer. The policy 
covered from 25 February 2022 to 24 February 2023.
In March 2022 the airline Miss V was travelling with cancelled her domestic flight within 
South Africa as the South African Civil Aviation Authority had suspended the airlines air 
operator certificate due to safety issues. As a result Miss V was unable to take her booked 
return flight from South Africa to the UK. She had to rebook a flight to the UK for a later date. 
She claimed for the cost of rebooking the flight less the value of the voucher she received 
from the airlines franchise partner.
Admiral declined the claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered under the 
delayed or missed departure section of the policy and anyway the policy terms excluded any 
claim resulting from the airline failing to provide a flight.
Miss V complained to us. She said Admiral unfairly declined the claim as the exclusion it 
relied on was too wide and could exclude any situation. Also her father and his wife had 
successfully claimed under their travel insurance policy.
Our investigator said Admiral had unreasonably declined the claim as the supplier failure 
exclusion it relied on was intended to apply where the airline had ceased trading, which 
hadnt happened at that time. She recommended Admiral reconsider the claim under the 
delayed or missed departure section of the policy.
Admiral disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. It said the wording of the supplier 
failure exclusion was much broader than the airline ceasing to trade and it had fairly applied 
the exclusion.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulatory guidelines say insurers must handle claims fairly and promptly and 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
I make decisions on the individual circumstances of a case, so even though Miss Vs father 
and his wife had their claims paid by their insurer that doesnt mean Admiral unreasonably 
declined Miss Vs claim. Their policy may have had different policy terms, and even if not, 
the issue I need to decide is whether Admiral reasonably declined Miss Vs claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss V but Im intending to not uphold the complaint. I think Admiral 
reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
A travel insurance policy doesnt cover every situation a policyholder finds themself in. The 
policy sets out the events and risks an insurer wants to cover.
Even if I thought Miss Vs claim might potentially be covered under the delayed or missed 
departure section of this policy the policy has general exclusions which apply to all sections 
of the policy. The supplier failure general exclusion says Admiral wont pay for:
any claim due to the actions or failure of any company providing or organising your 
transport or accommodation, to provide those services whether caused by error, 
insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, omission, default or other reason.
I think Admiral fairly considered that the exclusion doesnt only apply if Miss Vs airline 
ceased to trade. The policy wording also says the exclusion applies if the airline fails to 
provide Miss Vs flight due to listed reasons which include erroror other reason. I think 
Admiral reasonably considered that the airline not providing Miss Vs flight due to its air 
operator certificate being suspended due to safety issues came under error or other 
reason.
Miss V says the exclusion is too wide. The policy wording means theres no cover when an 
airline fails to provide a flight for any reason and from Admirals evidence thats its intention. 
I dont think that means the exclusion is too wide to be fair. In many circumstances an airline 
has legal responsibilities to a consumer if it fails to provide a flight. I appreciate seeking 
compensation from the relevant airline may not be possible in Miss Vs situation as 
I understand its now in liquidation. But the policy exclusion is clear that Admiral has 
excluded cover for a claim where an airline fails to provide a flight so I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to say it should cover the claim.
Im satisfied that Admiral reasonably applied the exclusion to decline the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss V said she didnt agree with my provisional decision but she had no further evidence to 
provide. Admiral didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss V says she has no further evidence to provide, and Admiral hasnt responded, to my 
provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold the 
complaint. Im satisfied that Admiral reasonably applied the supplier failure exclusion to 
decline the claim.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman