DRN-3583982
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around November 2016, Mr and Mrs K were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs K decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In September 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf under section 75 of 
the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs K to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mr and Mrs K would receive free electricity through the day; and
their council tax payments would decrease; and
their house would be more energy efficient
the system would be self-funded by virtue of significant savings on electricity bills and 
income from the feed in tariff (FIT); and
they would save money on their electricity bills; and
if they wished to move from the property in the future, they could remove the solar 
panels and move them to their new property; and
the solar panels were not performing in the way that had been promised; and
Shawbrook had failed to assess Mr and Mrs Ks credit worthiness.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response. But theyve since explained to this service that they 
didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs K or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But they have apologised for the time taken to 
issue their final response and offered £200 to reflect this.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator thought that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr and Mrs K. Our investigator also thought Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have agreed 
to purchase the solar panel system if they P hadnt said they were able to transfer it to 
another property when moving. 
Our investigator thought Shawbrook should refund all payments made, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date that Mr and Mrs K subsequently sold and moved from their property to 
the point they repaid their loan. Our investigator also suggested that Shawbrook pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs K of £100.
The CMC agreed with our investigators findings and recommendations.
Shawbrook disagreed with our investigators view for the following reasons:
The graphs and tables in pages 1 to 9 of the customer quote refer to the solar panel 
system as a standalone product and any savings do not include the finance costs. 
This is because the quote is completed before payment options are considered. 
Pages 10 and 11 of the quote show the average monthly returns over the various 
loan terms offered and provide a clear comparison of any expected shortfall.
Page 12 of the quote clearly shows that Mr and Mrs K wont accumulate savings 
more than the total cost until sometime after year 17. So, it was not suggested that 
the system would pay for itself within the loan term.
Mr and Mrs K sold their property in March 2018 but didnt complain about the 
systems transferability until September 2019 suggesting that transferability wasnt a 
key factor.
Ps system notes show no record of Mr and Mrs K contacting them to request 
transfer of the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was been passed to me for review.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 11 May 2022  giving both Mr and Mrs K and Shawbrook the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below, before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs K paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs K could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they couldve claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr K, Mrs 
K and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ks recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs K makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £8,652. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £8,652. The total amount of credit is £8,552 and goes on to show 
that the total amount payable would be £16,820.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,652, it would cost Mr 
and Mrs K more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs K have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs K has 
said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs K could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs K could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £171.78.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs K could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £302.33 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chose by Mr and Mrs K the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £589.31. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs K entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £91.38. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £91.38, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs K could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs K that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs K was told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs K could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs K that the system would pay for 
itself by year 18, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs K. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,589 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs K FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,871 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases were lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs K 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs K entered into the 
contract.
Transferrable solar panels
Mr and Mrs K have suggested that they were told by P, in the event they decided to move 
from the property to another, the panels could be relocated to their new home. Ive not been 
able to find any reference to this within either the solar quote or any other documentation 
provided. 
Shawbrook have also confirmed that they have been provided with copies of all Ps file notes 
in relation to Mr and Mrs Ks system purchase and there is no reference to transferring the 
panels within them.
Our investigator asked if Mr and Mrs K could provide any evidence or call records to support 
their comment of having spoken to someone regarding the panels being moved. 
Unfortunately, theyve not been able to provide anything. 
I also understand that Mr and Mrs K sold their property in March 2018. However, I 
understand that this aspect wasnt raised as a complaint until 18 months later. Had the ability 
to transfer the panels been a contributor to Mr and Mrs Ks decision to purchase system, I 
wouldve expected this to have been raised when they sold their property. 
So, having considered all of this, Im not persuaded that P did, in fact, suggest or agree that 
transfer of the panels was possible.
Credit Assessment
When considering Mr and Mrs Ks application for credit, I understand Shawbrook completed 
their own internal credit assessments and considered information obtained from credit 
reference agencies when reaching their decision to lend. Having completed my investigation, 
Im satisfied that there isnt any information to support the allegation that proportionate credit 
checks and assessments werent completed here. 
Sales pressure
Concerns have been raised that as part of Ps sales process, pressure was exerted upon Mr 
and Mrs K to enter into the agreement to purchase the system. Im aware of previous 
allegations which were investigated and addressed by Trading Standards. These relate to 
circumstances predating the sales process and purchase in Mr and Mrs Ks case. This 
service has been provided with assurances that those concerns were addressed and 
remedied, in co-operation with Trading Standards, prior to Ps sale to Mr and Mrs K.
Im also satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process and it wouldve 
been discussed with Mr and Mrs K. So, Ive not been persuaded that the salesperson 
wouldve said something that would then have been contradicted by the quote. To support 
this, Im satisfied that the Mr and Mrs K were sent the quote, had time to consider it and to 
raise any issues prior to installation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs K to enter into the contract for the system. So, I dont intend to uphold this aspect of their 
complaint.
However, Shawbrook didnt provide its final response to Mr and Mrs Ks complaint until after 
it had been referred to this service. I believe that the fact Mr and Mrs K didnt receive a 
response to their complaint undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset. So, Ill be 
supporting Shawbrooks offer by making an award of £200 to cover this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. 
Shawbrook havent added anything further.
The CMC didnt agree with my provisional decision. Included within their response, they 
said:
when seeking savings and benefits, its inconceivable that Mr and Mrs K would 
accept 15 years of finance with no benefit until three years after the finance had been 
discharged; and
its not reasonable to accept a shortfall between the finance payments and benefits 
which Mr and Mrs K would have to find before any benefit is received; and
Mr and Mrs K wouldnt recover any funding shortfall within the lifetime of the solar 
panels; and
its not reasonable for Mr and Mrs K to be held responsible for identifying any 
discrepancies between what they were told and what the quote and documentation 
said; and
Mr and Mrs K didnt receive a copy of the quote; and
Mr and Mrs Ks witness testimony of what they were told has been ignored.
Mr and Mrs K didnt raise their complaint about their inability to transfer the solar 
system to a new property until they received legal advice.
Ive considered all the comments and responses received from the CMC. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened or what was said, I must decide on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider most likely happened, given the evidence 
that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Shawbrook have provided evidence that shows P sent the quote to Mr & Mrs K by email in 
November 2016. The email address used is the same as that provided to this service. So, 
Im satisfied they were sent the quote, had the opportunity to read it and raise any questions. 
They also had the opportunity to cancel the contract if, within the notice period, they 
changed their mind or were concerned that anything within the quote contradicted what they 
believe theyd been told during the sales presentation.
Having considered all the evidence, including the Mr & Mrs Ks recollections, Im satisfied 
that the quote and the finance agreement were clear about the costs associated with the 
supply and installation of the system. Im also satisfied that the quote made it clear how long 
it would take to cover those costs from the financial benefits of the system. So, in the 
absence of any supporting evidence to the contrary from the time, Ive not been provided 
with anything more here that persuades me that the system was misrepresented to Mr & Mrs 
K by P.Regarding the transferability of the system to another property, I acknowledge the CMCs 
observations. While Ive considered what Mr & Mrs K have said, its not that I wouldve 
expected them to have complained sooner, but I would expect to find some evidence or 
testimony, around the time of the sale of their property, to show theyd asked for the panels 
to be moved. Having requested that from both Mr & Mrs K and P (via Shawbrook), Ive not 
been provided with anything that demonstrates thered been any communication on that 
subject.
So, having considered Mr & Mrs complaint further, Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
to vary from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. In full and final settlement 
of it, I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Mr and Mrs K £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman