DRN-3766417
The complaint
Ms S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) caused delays in a 
claim on her motor insurance policy. She wants her policy excess refunded. 
What happened
Ms S was involved in a collision with a lorry that didnt stop at the scene and so Ms S didnt 
get its details. Another driver told Ms S that he had caught the incident on dashcam. Ms S 
made a claim to LV and gave it the witness details. LV asked the witness for the dashcam 
footage the following day, but he didnt respond. Ms Ss car was repaired. 
Five months after the incident, Ms S contacted LV as she hadnt had any updates on the 
claim. LV then contacted the witness again and he sent in the dashcam footage the following 
day. This didnt show the lorrys registration number, but it did identify the company. So LV 
asked the lorrys owner for further details, but this wasnt provided. LV paid Ms S £100 
compensation for the delays and said it would keep her updated. 
The other insurer then asked LV to prove its lorry had been involved in the incident. LV sent 
some information, but the insurer wanted a copy of the dashcam footage. LV sent this a 
month later after Ms S complained again. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LV hadnt 
reasonably progressed the claim except when prompted by Ms S. And he thought LV hadnt 
reasonably updated Ms S. And so he thought LV should pay Ms S £150 further 
compensation for the impact caused by its delays. But he didnt think that LV should refund 
Ms Ss policy excess and he didnt think the open claim had affected her premium at 
renewal. 
LV replied that Ms S had contacted it only three times to chase up the claim. It thought its 
£100 offer as a gesture of goodwill was fair. LV asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S was unhappy that LV hadnt actively progressed her claim. So she made a complaint. 
LV agreed that it hadnt progressed Ms Ss claim as it should have done for five months until 
she contacted it for an update. It said it would then keep Ms S updated and it paid her £100 
compensation. 
I agree with the Investigator that this wasnt sufficient in the circumstances. When a business 
makes a mistake, as LV accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers 
position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the 
consumer. 
LV repaired Ms Ss car and it asked for the dashcam footage, but this wasnt provided. I can 
see that when Ms S prompted it, it again contacted her witness who immediately provided 
the requested dashcam footage. So I think if he had been prompted earlier, he would then 
have provided this and so LV could then have avoided five months delay in the claim. 
And when LV had identified the lorrys insurer, it didnt send the dashcam footage that 
identified the companys lorry until after a further prompt by Ms S. I think this caused a 
further months avoidable delay in the claim. 
Im satisfied that the delays havent caused Ms S any financial loss. This is because Ms S 
had her car repaired, because she would always have had to pay her policy excess as the 
first part of a claim, and the open claim hasnt increased her premium at renewal. So I think 
by sending the dashcam footage to the other insurer LV has now restored Ms Ss position so 
liability can be pursued. 
But I dont think LVs payment of compensation is sufficient for the impact the significant 
delays it has caused in the claim have had on Ms S. She has been caused avoidable 
frustration and upset over a significant period of time. I accept that Ms S contacted LV only 
three times about the claim. But I think that she firstly presumed that LV was actively 
pursuing it when it wasnt. And then it said it would provide regular updates, but it didnt do 
so. 
Our Investigator recommended that LV should pay Ms S £150 further compensation (£250 in 
total) for this trouble and upset. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance where there has been an impact over several months, as in Ms Ss 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms S £150 further 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service in handling 
her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman