DRN-3957234
The complaint
Mr G complains about Fortrade Limiteds decision to allow him to trade Contracts for 
Differences (CFDs). 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G opened an account with Fortrade. Before allowing Mr G to trade CFDs,  
Fortrade needed to satisfy itself that Mr G had the necessary knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved in the service he was demanding  namely the ability to trade 
CFDs. He was therefore required to complete an appropriateness assessment, which he did 
while he was on the telephone with a representative from Fortrade.  
As part of this assessment, Mr G declared that:
He had less than $5,000 in savings and investments, but an annual income of more 
than $250,000. 
He was self-employed as a taxi driver. 
He had no knowledge of trading generally, and no knowledge of CFDs.  
Fortrade then explained that it didnt matter that he no knowledge of trading because Mr G 
would be taught how to trade, and would be allocated a mentor who would help him place 
the right trades. Fortrade gave an example of how this would happen, explaining that if a 
given stock was crashing hed be sent an email telling him to sell in order to take advantage 
and make money. 
Mr G explained that he wasnt very educated which is why he had never got involved with 
this type of investment. But the representative from Fortrade said that he didnt know 
anything about this either, but the people he worked with were experts and thats how he 
made £100 every single day Monday to Friday. And he explained that if Mr G made money, 
Fortrade made money. 
He said that his mentor would explain everything step by step, including what trades to open 
and close and how to take profit. And Fortrade also explained that there was no tax on any 
profits  and gave Mr G examples of what would happen when he made £500 in his first 
month, and after one month £1,000 as he would understand the investment more. 
During this conversation Fortrade gave some brief details about the trades Mr G would place 
and how to do so  but explained that he didnt need think about all this because Fortrade 
would send him reports via email which would tell him what to do. The representative said 
that Fortrade would predict whats going to happen in the market and then tell him how to 
take advantage. 
He was sent an email explaining how CFDs work because he had disclosed that he had no 
experience trading CFDs. 
The next day Mr G had a number of calls with Fortrade. During the first of these calls he was 
introduced to his senior account manager. Mr G disclosed again that he was a taxi driver, 
earning on average £4,000 a month with no other investments or income. He confirmed 
again that he had no experience trading or with CFDs. 
The account manager asked Mr G how much he was looking to make by trading CFDs, and 
Mr G explained that he was looking to make £2,000 a month. He was told that this was a 
very realistic and achievable number, particularly if Mr G was willing to deposit £20,000, 
which he confirmed he would. He also confirmed that hed been using the demo account 
since the previous day. 
Mr G went on to have several calls with Fortrade during which trades, losses and a number 
of other matters were discussed. In the following two weeks he deposited over £40,000 and 
placed around 20 trades. On 3 April 2020 he received an email from Fortrade. This said:
Based on the information you supplied in the Financial Questionnaire regarding your 
investment objectives and trading experience, we consider that CFDs may not be suitable or 
appropriate for you. 
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money due to leverage. 
This means that potential profits and losses are magnified. You should consider whether you 
understand how CFDs work and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your 
money. These products may not be suitable for all clients. Therefore please ensure that you 
understand the risks and seek independent advice. 74% of retail investor accounts lose 
money when trading CFDs with this provider. 
After receiving this warning, Mr G continued to trade and regularly speak with Fortrade about 
what trades to place and how much. 
At the end of April 2020 Mr G complained. In short, he complained that he shouldnt have 
been allowed to trade given his low income, lack of knowledge and limited English. He also 
complained that he was frequently given advice by unqualified individuals, and that he was 
promised he could make profits. 
Fortrade looked into his complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that he 
had disclosed he was earning over $250,000 and said it was his responsibility to be truthful. 
It said that he had been given training materials after he opened his account to address his 
lack of knowledge, and was given risk warnings about the percentage of customers who lost 
money trading CFDs. It said that after monitoring the large accumulated amount of 
deposits, its compliance department decided to send him an additional risk warning to 
ensure Mr G still fully understood that CFD trading carries a high level of risk. It emphasised 
that Mr G was never promised any profits nor was he ever given advice, and that all trades 
were made based on his decision making. 
Mr G didnt agree with Fortrades response, and so referred it to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. 
He considered that it should be upheld. He said that it wasnt in dispute that trading CFDs 
was not appropriate for Mr G. He said this meant Fortrade needed to warn Mr G to that 
effect. He said that he saw an account registration document that said the appropriateness 
warning had been given, but he wasnt persuaded that the brief mention of a warning in 
Mr Gs telephone call on 18 March was sufficient. He said that he thought Mr G was 
coached through the application process, and wasnt given the time to properly consider any warnings he was being provided with  particularly given that all this was done over the 
phone. 
The investigator acknowledged that a more complete warning was sent on 3 April 2020  
however Mr G had already been trading for around two weeks by that stage. The 
investigator thought that this ought to have been sent to Mr G at the time he opened his 
account, and therefore interrupted the account opening process. 
The investigator also considered that Fortrade ought to have used its discretion in COBS 
10A.3.3 to stop Mr G from opening the account as it was not in his best interests. He thought 
there were clearly some discrepancies in Mr Gs form which potentially showed he wouldnt 
be able to afford any losses  and the investigator considered that on at least two phone 
calls shortly after opening his account, Mr G made clear what his income and profession 
was. The investigator therefore concluded that Fortrade needed to compensate Mr G. 
Fortrade didnt agree. It said:
There was nothing in COBS 10A.3.1 that prevented a valid appropriateness warning 
from being sent after an earlier trade has been conducted. It said that there may be 
circumstances where one trade is deemed appropriate, but a latter trade is not. It 
said that it therefore had to be possible to send a valid appropriateness warning at 
any time in relation to any trade or set of trades. It said that Mr G was sent such a 
warning and it was applicable to all subsequent trading conducted by him. 
It said it was wrong to suggest that the timing of the warning rendered it invalid. It 
said that the purpose of the appropriateness warning was to inform the customer that 
the firm had concluded that trading is inappropriate for that customer. It said that it 
wasnt correct to suggest that such a warning was ineffective simply because the 
customer has already traded. It said that there was nothing in the relevant regulatory 
rules or guidance to support such an assertion. 
It said that in relation to the guidance at COBS 10A.3.3 it was entirely within the 
discretion of the firm whether to allow a consumer to trade. It said that it wasnt right 
that this service could override that discretion and to do so would redefine the 
regulatory requirements in respect of appropriateness. It said that was not fair and 
reasonable. It also said that this was a fundamental point and that the investigators 
proposed approach of retrospectively replacing the firms decision would create huge 
uncertainty and seriously undermine the proper functioning of the regulatory regime 
in this area. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and standardsAll firms regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) need to comply with the 
standards it sets out in the FCA Handbook  and in particular the Conduct of Business rules 
(COBS). For the avoidance of doubt, all standards quoted were in force at the time of the 
events complained about in March and April 2020. 
COBS 2.1.1 says that a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the clients bests interests rule).
COBS 4.2.1 says that a firm must ensure that a communication [] is fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
COBS 10A.2 Assessing appropriateness sets out the rules which Fortrade needed to follow 
when Mr G first decided to open a CFD trading account with it. In short, it needed to 
determine whether that client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in relation to the product or investment service offered or 
demanded when assessing whether an investment service [] is appropriate for a client. 
In the event that a firm considers that the service being demanded or the investment is not 
appropriate for the client, COBS 10A.3.1 requires it to issue a warning that on the basis of 
information received to enable it to assess appropriateness, [] the product or service is not 
appropriate for the client. 
COBS 10A.3.3 explains that if a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite 
being given a warning by the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard 
to the circumstances. 
All firms regulated by the FCA also need to comply with its high level principles  including 
Prin 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCA has issued a number of statements about how these rules need to be applied in 
the context of trading CFDs. In 2017 it published a review on how firms carried out 
appropriateness assessments. In this review it said that that firms were providing 
inadequate warnings to prospective clients who fail appropriateness assessments. It said 
the risk warnings should be designed to interrupt the application process and they should 
use clear language to communicate that a specific product or service is not appropriate for 
the applicant because the applicants answers lead the firm to the view that the applicant 
does not have the knowledge and experience to properly understand the risks involved. It 
said that this should contain a clear recommendation against proceeding with the 
transaction. 
It also said that firms did not give meaningful consideration to whether the applicant should 
still be permitted to proceed. It quoted the European Securities and Markets Authority 
(ESMA) when it said that taking into account the complex nature of CFDs and other 
speculative products and the best interests of the client, in cases where the assessment of 
appropriateness indicates that the product or service is not appropriate for a retail client [] 
the best practice would be for the firm to not allow the client to proceed. 
My findings
In this case, it isnt in dispute that trading CFDs was not appropriate for Mr G. Its clear that 
he had no knowledge and experience of trading CFDs, and had virtually no other investment 
experience at all. This means that Mr G ought to have been warned to that effect. Fortrade has attempted to argue that such a warning couldve been provided after he had 
begun trading, and there was nothing in the rules which prevented this. I disagree entirely. 
The rules clearly envisage the warning being provided before the service being offered. I say 
this for a number of reasons:
It is self-evident that the purpose of the rule is to ensure that consumers are aware of 
the risks of the investment or service they are looking to invest in  this purpose 
would not be achieved if the assessment wasnt carried out before such an 
investment. 
Its clear that Fortrade agree with this  because it did carry out this assessment 
before Mr G began trading. 
Having carried out an assessment which demonstrated that trading CFD was not 
appropriate for Mr G, it cannot have been in his best interests not to let him know the 
outcome of that assessment immediately. 
The warning which COBS 10A envisages firms providing to clients is obviously 
designed to equip consumers with the knowledge that they are about to embark on 
something which the firm itself has concluded is not appropriate for them. Clearly 
such a warning is designed to limit as much as possible the risk of consumer harm 
caused by consumers investing in complex and high risk products they have 
insufficient knowledge and experience of. Such harm would not be avoided if the 
warning could be provided at some point in the future once the consumer has already 
invested and potentially lost money. 
The guidance at COBS 10A.3.3 makes no sense if a warning could be provided at 
any point. The guidance clearly requires firm to consider, having provided the 
warning, whether to let the consumer go ahead with the service or investment. 
This only makes sense if a consumer is warned before investing  otherwise there 
would be no discretion to exercise since the consumer would already be trading.
The comment that that one trade might be appropriate and another might not is 
without merit in Mr Gs case. He was not buying shares. He was trading CFDs  and 
there was no difference between the positions which he opened when he first created 
his account, and the positions he opened later. 
The FCA has been clear that the warning is designed to interrupt the process  and 
clearly this cannot be achieved if the consumer has already begun trading. 
In looking at the evidence, Im satisfied that such a warning was not provided to Mr G at the 
time he opened his account. I can see he received an email shortly after opening the 
account that directed him to some materials in order for him to understand CFD trading  but 
he was not warned that, in Fortrades opinion, CFD trading was not appropriate for him. 
Furthermore, he was not provided such a warning during his telephone conversation with 
Fortrade on 18 March 2020 either. 
In fact, during this call he was told that the representative he was speaking to was making 
£100 a day despite not knowing anything about trading CFDs  and this was all done thanks 
to his colleagues producing analyses and reports. I dont make a finding on whether that 
claim was true or not (though I highly doubt it was), but its clear that this isnt typical of 
Fortrades customers, since at the time the vast majority of its customers were losing money trading CFDs. 
Therefore, in order to comply with COBS 4.2.1, Mr G should at the very least have been told 
that the representatives experience was not typical and it would be unlikely in Mr Gs case. 
This communication gave Mr G information which was not consistent with Fortrades 
regulatory obligations, nor the reality of trading CFDs:
He was not warned that trading CFDs was not appropriate for him and there was a 
high likelihood that he would lose his money. 
He was told that making profits was easy and could be done with no knowledge and 
experience at all  and this was misleading. Its clear that the majority of Fortrades 
clients were losing money trading CFDs  and Im not persuaded it was fair, clear 
and not misleading to suggest to Mr G that his lack of knowledge and experience 
would have no impact on his ability to make money. 
He was given a misleading impression of Fortrades customers and how many were 
making money, despite Fortrade having to disclose on its website that the vast 
majority of its clients lost money trading CFDs. 
None of this was put right once Mr G was contacted by his account manager  because 
those calls were equally misleading. For example in his very first call he was told that it was 
entirely realistic and easily achievable that Mr G, with no experience or knowledge, could 
make 10% of his invested money just by following Fortrades reports on the market. But this 
claim seems incompatible with both the high risk nature of CFDs and, importantly, the 
experience of the vast majority of Fortrades clients at the time. In my view this misled Mr G 
into believing that trading CFDs was a safe and reliable way to make the additional income 
he was after, when the reality was that trading CFDs was high risk and complex  and there 
was a strong likelihood that Mr G would probably not make his desired income, and likely 
lose some or all of his capital instead. 
And furthermore, it was equally misleading to suggest that Fortrade was able to predict 
market movements and that all Mr G needed to do was read reports in order to know what 
trades to open and close. The reality, as Fortrade knows too well, is that the vast majority of 
its clients lose money trading CFDs  and this would not be the case if Fortrade could 
predict market movements. 
Mr Gs subsequent conversations with Fortrade continued to be unhelpful in this way. There 
was a focus on the profits Mr G could make and on encouraging Mr G to deposit more 
money  and yet on each call it ought to have been abundantly clear that Mr G should not be 
trading CFDs at all. He was unaware of how profits and losses were calculated and how 
leverage affected this, and he was also unclear about certain charges that were being 
applied for positions that were rolled over. Almost every call Mr G had with Fortrade showed 
how limited his knowledge was. This means that Mr G was consistently given a significantly 
unbalanced view of the comparative risk and reward of the service Fortrade was offering 
him. Mr G ought to have been given information that was accurate and gave a fair and 
prominent indication of any relevant risks when referencing any potential benefits of an 
investment service or financial instrument (COBS 4.5A.3)  and yet this was consistently not 
done by Fortrade. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Fortrade did not treat Mr G fairly, and did not 
pay sufficient regard to its obligations under COBS 10A. 
Im also not persuaded it paid due regard to its obligations under COBS 2.1. In all these communications, Im satisfied Fortrade was not considering Mr Gs best interests. 
It was not weighing up his desire to invest in CFDs, with his total lack of any knowledge and 
experience, his limited income and, equally importantly, his ability to understand complex 
concepts in a language that he was not fully fluent in. In my view had it done this, far from 
encouraging him to invest more, it ought to have been explaining just how likely it was that 
he would lose money. 
And its communications were not fair, clear and not misleading. They deliberately painted a 
picture to Mr G that led him to think that there was good chance hed make money trading 
with Fortrade, and his lack of any experience or knowledge would not have a bearing on this. 
This was clearly misleading. I acknowledge that in writing Fortrade was required to point out 
the risks of trading CFDs, and the percentage of its customers that lost money. But in the 
particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, Im satisfied he was clearly entirely reliant on the 
telephone contact he was having with Fortrade, and on what he was being told verbally. And 
Im satisfied that it was Fortrades responsibility to ensure that it did not give Mr G mixed 
messages about such a high risk and complex investment, and instead ensure that its 
communications were fair, clear and not misleading. 
Overall, given everything Ive said above, Im satisfied that Fortrade did not fairly and 
reasonably apply the rules in COBS 10A because it did not warn Mr G, before allowing him 
to trade, that trading CFDs was not appropriate for him. And, furthermore, because it actively 
misled Mr G into believing that there was a realistic and likely chance hed make money 
investing in CFDs through Fortrade, when it knew or shouldve known, that wasnt the case. 
However, before deciding what impact these failings had on Mr G, I need to consider the 
warning which Fortrade did send to Mr G on 3 April 2020. I say this because on receipt of 
this warning, Mr G continued to trade with Fortrade for around two weeks. 
To be clear, Im satisfied that this communication was intended by Fortrade to be an 
appropriateness warning following the answers Mr G gave when he opened his account. Im 
satisfied that Fortrade sent this warning on the basis that it had omitted to do so previously, 
and recognised that Mr G needed to receive such a warning. I say this because the warning 
specifically says that it was being sent following the answers Mr G gave on his account 
opening questionnaire  and does not suggest it was being sent for another reason (for 
example as Fortrade alleges in its final response letter, because of Mr Gs substantial 
deposits). 
Fortrade has indicated in broad terms that Mr Gs decision to continue trading after this 
warning shows that he wouldve done so even if the warning had been provided to him at the 
outset. And it has said, in response to the investigators assessment, that its not for this 
service to exercise the discretion the FCA gave firms in COBS 10A.3.3 to allow a consumer 
to carry on with the transaction or service despite a warning being given. 
Before looking at the issue of Fortrades exercise of its discretion at COBS 10A.3.3 Ive 
considered whether the email it sent to Mr G on 3 April 2020 was enough to amount to an 
appropriateness warning. In deciding this, Ive taken into account:
The wording of the warning. In order for it to be effective, the warning needed to 
assert that based on the answers Mr G gave when opening his account, trading 
CFDs was not, in Fortrades opinion, appropriate for him  not that it may not be. 
The timing of the warning  he received this on 3 April 2020, two weeks after he had 
begun trading and after around 20 trading calls between Mr G and Fortrade. The content of the communications Mr G had received up until that point. In particular 
the telephone calls hed had which painted a particular picture to Mr G about this 
investment and his prospects of making a return. 
When taking all this into account, Im satisfied the warning Mr G was sent on 3 April 2020 
would not have been enough to outweigh what Mr G had consistently and repeatedly been 
told about Fortrades service, and trading CFDs. 
I say this firstly because I dont think the warning was strong enough  COBS 10A required 
the warning to assert that, based on its assessment of Mr Gs knowledge and experience, 
trading CFDs was not appropriate for him. I dont agree that saying may not be appropriate 
is the same  the warning was clearly only being provided because Fortrade had concluded 
it was not appropriate, and it should have therefore told Mr G this. I dont agree that the 
regulator envisaged the warning making any room for ambiguity about this. This is also 
consistent with guidance issued by the ESMA and the FCA. Furthermore, the warning asks 
Mr G to consider whether [he understood] how CFDs work and whether he could take the 
high risk of losing your money. But the whole purpose of the warning was to tell Mr G that 
Fortrade had concluded he did not. 
I also agree with the investigator that the timing of the warning diluted its effectiveness. Not 
only was the language not strong enough, as Ive said above, it was delivered after several 
telephone calls with Fortrade, during which Mr G was given the impression, as Ive 
mentioned above, that he would make money from trading CFDs, and potentially as much as 
10% per month of what he invested  despite his lack of knowledge and experience. 
In my view, given the volume and consistency of the communications he had received, it 
was entirely reasonable that he did not place much reliance on a lukewarm warning he 
received some two weeks after opening the account, and after having opened several trades 
and deposited thousands of pounds. 
Im satisfied, taking all this into account, that Mr G only decided to trade and continue trading 
because Fortrade encouraged him to do so. I think its clear that given his lack of experience 
and investment knowledge, Mr G was completely reliant on Fortrade as the regulated firm to 
ensure that it acted in his best interests. The phone calls are evidence of Mr Gs desire to 
build a relationship with the individuals he was speaking to, and he was entirely candid on 
each occasion about what he didnt understand, his limited knowledge of English (which is 
why a number of the calls are also in a foreign language) and his lack of any trading 
experience. 
In taking all this into account, and considering what Mr G wouldve done, Im satisfied, given 
the telephone calls Ive listened to, that if Mr G had been warned in clear and unequivocal 
terms, in writing and on the telephone, that there was a high risk of him losing his money, 
and that Fortrade did not believe trading CFDs was appropriate for him, Mr G wouldve 
chosen not to go ahead. I say this bearing in mind that he should not have been misled the 
way he was  and the absence of those communications wouldve made him even less likely 
to proceed had he been given an appropriate warning at the right time. 
Putting things right
Given what Ive said above, Im therefore satisfied that Fortrade Limited needs to put things 
right for Mr G. And I agree with the investigators approach. Fortrade needs to compare what 
Mr G deposited in his trading account, versus what he was eventually able to withdraw. 
And it needs to pay him the difference. I agree that Mr G has clearly been caused trouble and upset by Fortrades actions, and the 
fact that it allowed him to be exposed to such a complex and high risk investment despite 
him not having sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks. Im satisfied 
that £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for that. 
I also agree that if Mr G had decided, at the outset, not to go ahead with investing in CFDs, 
his money would likely not have been invested. Fort his reason, Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable not to award any additional interest.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Fortrade Limited must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr G has accepted this 
final decision. If it does not pay within this time frame, itll need to add 8% per year simple 
interest on the awarded sum, from the date on which we told it Mr G accepted the decision, 
until the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman