DRN-2309128
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as F have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited caused delays in 
repairing a vehicle under their motor insurance policy. Mr E, director of F, has complained on 
Fs behalf. 
What happened
Mr E contacted Aviva to claim on his policy on 13 April 2020. When he hadnt heard anything 
for a few days Mr E got back in touch. Aviva said the van was taken to repairers on 17 April 
2020 and returned to Mr E on 28 April 2020. 
Mr E complained to Aviva. He said it had caused a delay in repairing his van and wanted 
compensating as he hadnt been able to work, due to not having a van.
Aviva said it wouldnt have been able to guarantee that the repairs would have been done 
sooner. It said the decal printer didnt open until 20 April 2020, so this wouldnt have been 
ordered any sooner. However, it offered F £75 compensation. 
Mr E was unhappy with Avivas response and brought his complaint to our service. He felt 
hed been unable to work for longer than he should have and thought Aviva should 
compensate him for this. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
14 days was an unreasonable time for Aviva to have taken to complete repairs. And he also 
didnt think F had been able to demonstrate that theyd experienced a financial loss as a 
result of delays. Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons. 
When dealing with a claim, Aviva has a responsibility to do so promptly. 13 April 2020 was a 
bank holiday. So, the earliest Aviva would have been able to get the van to the repairer 
would have been 14 April 2020, which is three days before it was taken to the repairer. I can 
understand why Mr E feels that if his van had been taken to the repairer three days earlier it 
might have been repaired three days sooner. However, I dont think that necessarily follows. 
I say that because the repairer would need to plan the work around its other work and there 
isnt a guarantee that it will be completed within a certain timeframe. Also, the decal printer 
didnt open until 20 April 2020 which meant they couldnt be ordered until then. I appreciate 
Mr E said his van has been returned to him without these in the past, but I think its most 
likely this would have been factored into the timescale even if the van had been taken to the 
repairer sooner. 
So, even though there was a delay in Aviva taking the van to the repairer. I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that he would have received the van back sooner. And overall I 
think 14 days is a reasonable amount of time for repairs. 
In any event, I also dont think that Mr E has sufficiently demonstrated that not having his 
van back sooner has caused F to lose money. Mr E provided evidence of Fs turnover from 
the previous year, but this doesnt show that F had to cancel or turn down work for those 
three days. I understand F had a contract with another company, but I also understand that 
contract was fulfilled. Also, when talking to Aviva, Mr E said there wasnt a lot of work on at 
that time. 
As Im not persuaded Aviva caused F a loss, Im not going to require Aviva to pay for loss of 
earnings and think the £75 Aviva offered is enough to compensate F for having to chase up 
the repairs. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr E, but Im not going to require 
Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman