DRN-4029905
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr B had a current account and savings account with TSB. In 2021, theyd found that his
post was being returned. There was an overdraft limit of £1,750. TSB wanted to verify Mr Bs
identity and address (IDV) and tried calling him, without success. On 12 November 2021,
TSB wrote a letter to Mr B to give notice that they were going to close his accounts on 12
January 2022. The letter wasnt sent  as TSB didnt have Mr Bs up to date address on file.
Mr B gave TSB correct IDV documents on 8 December 2021.
On 14 January 2022, Mr Bs current account and savings account were closed. The current
account balance was £1,739.09. The overdraft limit was cancelled and demand for
repayment of the overdraft was made on 23 February 2022. The debt was passed to a debt
collection agency (DCA) to manage. The balance was then £1,835.11. A default was
registered on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B agreed regular monthly payments of £35.29  which
have been made since then - up to September 2022 (when Mr Bs complaint came to us).
The balance was then £1,392.00 debit.
Mr B complained. He said he hadnt been contacted by TSB about the closure  he had no
idea it was going to happen. He said the closure of his accounts and the default werent fair.
He needed an account to receive his weekly wages into. He had been a customer of TSB for
many years and he didnt think that was a fair way to treat him.
TSB said theyd written a letter to Mr B on 12 November 2021  giving two months notice of
closure. The letter wasnt sent as they didnt have a current address for Mr B. Before that,
they said theyd tried several times to contact Mr B to verify his address and ID but couldnt
get hold of him. They therefore went ahead and closed his accounts and passed his debt to
their recoveries department. Demand was made and the debt passed to a DCA in March
2022. In their final response, TSB said Mr B had provided the correct IDV documents on 8
December 2021. They didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said TSB hadnt acted reasonably. He
said because Mr B had provided the necessary IDV documents on 8 December 2021 
within the notice period that TSB had given to close his accounts  TSB shouldve stopped
the account closure. If they had, then TSB wouldnt have closed Mr Bs accounts, nor made
demand for repayment. It also followed that Mr Bs debt wouldnt have been defaulted. Our
investigator said the default should be removed and compensation of £350 paid to Mr B. Any
interest and charges applied because of the closure should also be refunded.
TSB didnt agree. They said Mr Bs accounts had been closed by a central unit. Theyd tried
to contact him in calls dated 11 October 2021, 19 October 2021; and sent letters on 11
October 2021 and 26 October 2021. TSB said as the account closure process had
commenced before Mr B provided his IDV documents, it went ahead.
Because TSB didnt agree, Mr Bs complaint has come to me.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
TSB did try to contact Mr B and have told us they tried to call him twice and wrote to him
twice  in October 2021. But they couldnt get hold of him and went ahead with the process
to close his accounts. This would be in line with their procedures where a customers IDV
couldnt be verified.
So  they sent Mr B a letter dated 12 November 2021 which gave him two months notice to
close his accounts. The letter said Were writing to let you know that after a review of your
account, we can no longer run a bank account for you. We will be closing your account on
12th January 2022. Please make alternative banking arrangements immediately.
But  the letter wasnt received by Mr B  as it wasnt sent because TSB didnt have his
address. I can see how that happened  we cant reasonably expect TSB to send a letter in
those circumstances.
But it is what happened next where I think that, in the circumstances of this complaint, TSB
didnt act reasonably. On 8 December 2021  Mr B did provide the correct IDV documents to
TSB. That was five weeks before his accounts were due to close under the notice of closure.
So I think its reasonable to say that TSB should have then reviewed Mr Bs IDV and
accounts and stopped the closure. I couldnt see any other reason why wouldve closed his
account - such as returned cheques, or overlimit positions  he ran his account within his
overdraft limit; and the account received a regular weekly salary into it.
If TSB had stopped the closure, they would not then have made demand for the repayment
of the debt, nor defaulted the account and passed it to a debt collection agency. So those
were all direct consequences of what had happened  and its therefore reasonable to say 
that those actions should be undone and Mr B put back in the position he was in. The default
should be removed from his credit file, the debt taken back from the DCA and a mutually
agreeable repayment programme put in place. I couldnt see that any additional interest and
charges were applied to Mr Bs account because of the default - but ask TSB to check if that
was the case.
I suspect Mr B doesnt have another bank account and probably needs one to pay his salary
into  I dont have that information. I cant insist that TSB reopen Mr Bs current account (I
heard him say on calls that he doesnt want a savings account). Mr Bs situation may have
changed such that he doesnt qualify for a TSB account anymore. But I would ask TSB to
contact Mr B and reopen the account if he qualifies  indeed, if Mr B wants or needs an
account with TSB. He may, by now, have found another bank.
Mr B didnt have an account to pay his weekly salary into, nor was he able to draw money
out of his account  after it was cancelled and blocked on 13 January 2022. This must have
been very stressful for him. I listened to the calls he made to TSB on 13 January 2022 and 1
February 2022. Mr B wanted access to his money and to be fair to TSB, they made
arrangements for him to withdraw money that week.
But  Mr B was also calling to find out what had happened and why his account had been
blocked (bearing in mind he hadnt had the letter dated 12 November 2021). But  TSBs call
handlers didnt clearly explain his account had been closed, and why  so he was left in the
dark. I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect TSB to clearly explain that on the calls.
On the call on 13 January 2022  there was also an unclear discussion during which TSB
asked Mr B to verify his ID and address again  its not clear why that was needed  as he
had done that on 8 December 2021. So  in summary , the calls werent handled well.So  I agree TSB should also pay compensation of £350 for what happened.
Responses to the provisional decision:
No comments were made by either TSB or Mr B.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither TSB or Mr B made any comments, my final decision is in line with the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc must:
Remove the default from Mr Bs credit file.
Take back the debt from the DCA and agree a mutually satisfactory repayment 
programme with Mr B.
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £350.
Look positively at re-opening Mr Bs current account, providing he qualifies for one  
if Mr B wishes to do that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman