DRN-4325119
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society gave him a warning about his behaviour 
during a phone call.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In October 2022 Mr C called the society to cancel a direct debit instruction hed recently 
approved with the recipient, but which he couldnt yet see on his account via internet 
banking. He had difficulty getting through to a member of staff and was then unhappy 
with the way his call was handled, including that the direct debit instruction couldnt be 
found. He terminated the call after saying he was going to raise a formal complaint. 
Nationwide subsequently sent a written warning to him about his behaviour during this 
call.
Mr C complained to Nationwide about the warning, in particular that he hadnt been given 
a chance to defend himself. Nationwide looked into the matter but concluded that its 
actions had been reasonable. Mr C disagreed and referred a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unreasonably. But Mr C remained 
unhappy and so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons. 
I would first say that it can take a number of days for a direct debit instruction to appear on a 
bank or building society account after authority for the instruction is given by an individual to 
the beneficiary  in Mr Cs case, a telecoms company. Mr C confirmed during the call that 
the instruction had only recently been set up with the telecoms company. And the call-
handler explained that he would need to speak to the company about cancelling it because 
the instruction had not yet appeared on Mr Cs account. I havent seen anything which 
suggests Nationwide made a mistake with regards to the administration of the direct debit 
instruction. And Im satisfied the call-handler correctly advised Mr C. I can also see, from Mr 
Cs account statements, that a direct debit payment left his account later that month, to the 
same telecoms company.
I can see why Nationwide considered Mr Cs behaviour to be unacceptable. I appreciate he 
may have had to wait longer than he would have liked to be connected, the call-handler did 
ask him to repeat two pieces of security information and was unable to locate the direct debit 
instruction. But I also think the call-handler remained professional and courteous throughout 
the call. She apologised for any inconvenience Mr C had already experienced, explained 
throughout the call what she was trying to do to help and tried to explain why the instruction 
was not yet visible on his account. I think the call-handler was doing her best to help solve 
the problem, but Mr C took an overly aggressive, confrontational tone almost from the start 
of the call. In all the circumstances, I dont think it was inappropriate of Nationwide to send 
the warning letter to Mr C, without first consulting him about the call.
Mr C is concerned that Nationwide has added a black mark against his name, and this is 
part of a campaign to end its relationship with him. 
I note the society explains on its website how it defines unacceptable behaviour and what 
steps it will take when an incident is reported by its staff. This includes that a written warning 
may be given and Provided there are no further incidents of a similar nature, we will hold 
details of the Unacceptable Behaviour incident for a period of 6 years, after which the file will 
be deleted. 
Nationwides warning letter explained that the call-handler felt Mr Cs tone was aggressive 
and this type of behaviour was unaccepted, so I think its likely the details of this incident will 
remain on Mr Cs customer record for at least six years. But I dont think thats the same as 
saying Nationwide has recorded a black mark against him or that the society is already 
working towards closing his account. Having said that, account closure is listed as being an 
action Nationwide might take in response to unacceptable behaviour and this is also detailed 
in the account terms and conditions. So I cant rule out the possibility that account closure 
might occur if Mr C exhibits unacceptable behaviour again in the future. 
If Nationwide does end its relationship with Mr C at some point down the line, and the 
decision to do so causes him concern, then he will be free to pursue a complaint with the 
society about that. And he will be entitled to bring a new complaint to this service if he is 
ultimately unhappy with the answer he receives from the Nationwide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman