DRN-1936231
The complaint
Miss R has complained about loans granted to her by Everyday Lending Limited (EDL). 
She says that the loans were unaffordable for her and EDL was wrong to have agreed to 
them. 
What happened
EDL agreed two loans for Miss R: a loan of £6,000 in July 2018; a second of £7,500 in June 
2019. The second loan was used to repay the balance on the first leaving an amount of 
£2,136 which was paid directly to Miss R. Some of the information EDL provided is shown in 
the table below, with all figures rounded to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
Loan Start date End date PrincipalMonthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
payable
1 19/07/2018 03/06/2019 £6,000 £331 30 £9,924
2 03/06/2019 - £7,500 £382 48 £18,343
Miss R says that she was borrowing from other lenders at the same time, including high cost 
short term lenders, and couldnt afford the high repayments for these loans. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that EDL should have seen that Miss R 
wasnt likely to be able to repay her second loan sustainably. Its affordability checks showed 
that her debt had increased considerably since her first loan and agreeing a second loan 
meant she would have too little left over each month to be able to meet her loan repayments 
sustainably.
EDL didnt agree that it had been irresponsible when it agreed to a second loan for Miss R 
and asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Rs in part as Ive found that EDL was irresponsible to 
agree a second loan for her. I appreciate this will be disappointing for EDL and to some 
extent for Miss R also. I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this 
conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when EDL lent to Miss R. Its rules 
and guidance obliged EDL to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that EDL needed to take reasonable and proportionate 
steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a 
sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1G1 stated that
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting other reasonable commitments;  without having to borrow further to 
meet these repayments or without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G - 61). 
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an 
appropriate assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The 
FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit 
being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation, amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the borrower. In other words the assessment needs to be 
borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, 
but of the risk to the borrower of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. 
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the borrower. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an 
extended period).
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
1 This was set out in CONC section 5.2A.12R in a revision to the text in November 2018Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Rs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
- did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Rs 
loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did EDL make fair lending decisions?
- did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL says it gathered information from Miss R about her income and rent. It estimated an 
amount for her general living expenses, based on a percentage of her income, and checked 
her credit file. The customer notes show EDL verified some of this information, for example it 
verified Miss Rs rent and monthly income from her bank statements and her payslip. 
Ive summarised some of the information EDL says it used in its affordability assessment in 
the table below (with numbers rounded). 
Loan 1 Loan 2
Income £2,067 £2,273
Rent £695 £695
Creditor repayments £144 £631
Estimated living expenses £752 £796
Minus consolidated debt payment -£61 -£298
Monthly cost of EDL loan £331 £382
Estimated remaining income £206 £68
EDL says that its assessment showed that for all loans the monthly repayments would be 
affordable for Miss R, leaving her with money to spare. 
Our adjudicator found that EDL needed to go further in its checks and clarify Miss Rs 
expenses, given the amount Miss R was borrowing and that she would need to meet her 
repayments for at least a year. 
I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate in these circumstances for EDL to 
have looked into Miss Rs spending in more detail. EDL looked at some of Miss Rs bank 
statements but I dont know to what extent it used these to explore or verify her spending. 
That said, the spend I can see on the bank statements provided by EDL isnt at odds with its 
estimated figures and so I dont think further probing would have led it to decline to lend to 
Miss R the first time.
Miss R says EDL shouldnt have agreed to lend to her because of her existing debt levels. 
The creditor payments shown on the above table for loan 1 dont include all of her debt  she 
also had two high cost short term loans and was repaying a credit card via a debt 
management company. However, it seems Miss R was going to use the loan to consolidate 
her debts and I can see from the information provided by EDL that it checked the 
outstanding balances on her short term loans. So while EDL knew about her existing debts, 
its loan was ostensibly to repay most of them.
Taking everything into account, I cant say that EDL was irresponsible to have agreed this 
loan for Miss R.Miss Rs second loan was also to consolidate debts, including her first EDL loan. However, I 
dont think EDL treated Miss R fairly when it agreed to lend to her again. By this point, just a 
year later, Miss Rs debts had increased significantly from about £6,500 to £8,000 (excluding 
her first EDL loan of £6,000). She still owed over £2,000 on a credit card and over £2,500 on 
a short term loan, so she either didnt consolidate these with her first EDL loan or had re-
borrowed. And she had loans from two different short term lenders and several new running 
credit accounts, some high cost. 
Altogether, its clear Miss Rs financial situation wasnt improving and her indebtedness had 
increased. It doesnt seem to me that shed managed to free herself of a need for credit and 
granting a second loan simply prolonged her indebtedness, potentially for another four 
years. 
Furthermore, EDLs affordability assessment for Miss Rs second loan left her with £68 a 
month to meet any unexpected or seasonal costs. I note that its estimated spend doesnt 
seem to have considered that she had two dependents. In her circumstances, leaving her 
with this margin each month meant it was highly likely she would have difficulty meeting her 
loan repayments without borrowing further. And so EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to 
lend to her again. 
Miss R didnt manage to repay her second loan as agreed. She explained to EDL the month 
after taking it that her car was not roadworthy and she could not afford to repair or replace it 
without rescheduling the loan. I understand that a repayment plan was agreed. 
Miss R says that she is in serious debt as the result of a downward spiral from lending 
increasing, high interest rates and limits being increased even though my borrowing is 
already high. She has also explained that her debts have had a serious impact on her 
wellbeing.
I dont doubt that Miss R has had a very difficult time of it and Im sorry to hear of this. I have 
considered whether any compensation should be awarded to her because of the impact of 
EDLs lending decisions on her circumstances. Ive borne in mind that Miss Rs debts were 
established before EDL agreed to lend to her and it was not her only credit provider. I think 
this Services usual approach to redressing irresponsible lending decisions is the most 
appropriate way to put things right in this case and Ive set this out in detail below.  
Putting things right
Ive concluded that EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Miss R a second time. 
Where we find a loan to have been agreed irresponsibly, this Services approach to putting 
things right is to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower above the capital 
amount borrowed. In addition, we usually direct the lender to pay a refund of 8% per annum 
simple interest on these payments where the borrower was unfairly deprived of their money.  
Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as they have had the use of these 
funds. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of 
£7,500 she borrowed for her loan agreed in 2019. To put things right for Miss R, EDL should:
a) remove any interest, fees and charges that make up the current loan balance; and
b) treat all payments made by Miss R as payments towards the capital amount; and
c) treat her fairly and sympathetically in coming to an agreement on a repayment plan 
for the remaining capital balance; and
d) remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file in relation to loan 2, once 
this has been settled.
In the unlikely event that Miss R has already settled the full outstanding balance of the loan, 
any payments over the capital amount borrowed should be refunded to her with 8% simple 
interest per annum from the dates the overpayments occurred to the date this complaint is 
settled. (HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.)
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Miss Rs complaint in part and require 
Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman