DRN-3046490
The complaint
Mr Hs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited, 
referred to as Sanlam or the business. 
In short, the CMC says that Mr H had no need for a long-term investment, and he shouldve 
been recommended a different option with a 10-year contract.  
What happened
In August 1989, Mr H was advised to take out The Savings Programme  a whole of life 
unit-linked product  referred to as the plan. 
The plan began in September 1989, with a £50 monthly contribution. It was recorded that Mr 
H was 23 years of age and in a relationship. He had a young child with another child 
imminently on the way. He was also employed and owned his home through a mortgage and 
had £5,500 in savings. 
The plan was surrendered in December 2011 and Mr H received £16,618, having 
contributed a total of £13,350 over 21/22 years.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Given that the sale took place over 20 years ago, and the plan was surrendered 10 
years ago, hes not surprised that Sanlam has limited paperwork surrounding the 
sale of this plan. 
He understands that businesses arent generally encouraged to retain information for 
more than six years. So, in the circumstances he doesnt know for sure what was and 
wasnt discussed with Mr H.  
Despite what the CMC says about his circumstances, Mr H had a stable family  a 
girlfriend, a child and another on the way  and owned his own home with a 
mortgage. Mr H also earned enough money to save towards his medium-term goals. 
So, in the circumstances a longer-term plan (with life cover) wasnt unsuitable. 
Despite what the CMC says about performance, without the benefit of hindsight, its 
impossible to know which plan wouldve performed better.    
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view. It said that he hadnt considered Mr Hs 
medium-term goals. The plan, written to 65 years of age, secured substantially higher 
commission for the salesman. The plan would only achieve meaningful returns if held for 20 
years or more. 
The CMC also said that the alternative investment programme isnt a different fund, its a 
ten-year contract with lower charges. Mr H wouldve been eligible to pay the £50 monthly 
contribution, and extend the contract if need be, so it was a superior plan to the 
recommendation. But the sales team never discussed these contracts because of lower 
commission.      
The investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said that he understands what the CMC is saying about medium-term 
goals, but most people are bound to have short, medium and long-term goals. The recorded 
aim of this product was to provide financial security, and given that it ran for 21/22 years, 
suggests that Mr H was comfortable with the long-term nature of the plan. 
The investigator maintains that its only with the benefit of hindsight that the CMC can say 
that another product wouldve done better.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators response and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation to invest £50 a month in the plan was unsuitable for Mr 
H.   
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr H, and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not my role to 
control financial businesses and or punish them. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Given the passage of time, Im not surprised that Sanlam isnt able to provide more 
information surrounding the sale of this plan. Businesses arent required to retain information 
indefinitely, therefore I cant blame Sanlam for not being able provide more evidence on a 
plan that was sold over 20 years ago and surrendered 10 years ago. 
 
Despite his age, Mr H had a young family, owned his own home and earned enough money 
to be able to contribute comfortably towards this plan. I note the plan was maintained for 
21/22 years which suggests that Mr H wasnt unhappy with it or had any affordability issues.   
I appreciate what the CMC says about Mr Hs goals, but I agree with the investigator that 
many people have short, medium and long-term gaols, and one doesnt necessarily have to 
affect the other. In this case, it seems that Mr H earned enough money to be able to pursue 
his short/medium-term goals, alongside this plan, without one materially effecting the other.  
Im mindful that by 1989 Mr H had already achieved many milestones in his life that a lot of 
people around his age would probably still be planning/saving up for. So, in this instance, I 
dont think a longer-term plan was unsuitable for Mr H given his circumstances. And given 
that Mr H already had a young child, and another on the way, I dont think an affordable 
longer-term plan, with an element of life cover, was unsuitable.   
The CMC will know that fund performance isnt an issue that wed consider in isolation, 
because its dependent on a number of factors that a business cant control or predict. Its 
only with the benefit of hindsight that we know that a different product performed better, but 
this doesnt mean that the recommendation was unsuitable, for the reasons Ive explained 
above. 
 
I appreciate what the CMC says about Mr H having to maintain the plan for over 20 years to 
get a meaningful return. But I note he maintained it for 21/22 years  and made a return  
which doesnt suggest that he didnt want a longer-term plan, or that the plan wasnt what he 
expected. Despite what the CMC says, on balance I cant safely say that Mr H wouldnt have 
chosen to go with the plan on his own volition.   
I appreciate Mr H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask Sanlam to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr H what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint, and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman