DRN-3431415
The complaint
Mrs B complains Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled her income protection 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs B held an income protection policy which was incepted in 2003 and was underwritten by 
Fairmead. The policy was designed to provide a benefit to cover Mrs Bs mortgage 
payments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. And Mrs B paid a monthly 
premium, which was collected by direct debit. 
In 2020, Mrs B was unfortunately made redundant, and contacted Fairmead about making a 
claim. However she found her policy had been cancelled in 2017.
In 2017, Mrs B had changed her bank account from one provider to another. She said she 
thought the direct debit had been successfully transferred during the bank account switch 
over. However Fairmead said it was notified that the direct debit had been cancelled. 
Fairmead provided a copy of a letter showing it wrote to Mrs B on 2 August 2017 about the 
cancellation of the direct debit. It asked her to get in touch and provide a new direct debit 
instruction within 14 days, if she wanted to continue her policy. And it said if it didnt hear 
from her within that time, the policy would lapse. As it didnt receive contact from Mrs B, 
thats what happened. 
Mrs B has said she didnt cancel the direct debit, and provided a letter from her new bank, 
confirming the direct debit instruction carried over to the new account. It said a payment was 
taken on 1 August 2017, but no further attempts to request a payment using that direct debit 
instruction were made. Mrs B has said she didnt receive the letter Fairmead sent on 2 
August 2017. At this time she no longer lived at the address Fairmead held for her, but said 
she had a postal re-direction in place.
Mrs B made a complaint, and Fairmead didnt uphold it. It said it was notified the direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled. And said it wrote to Mrs B at the address it held for her, and 
the letter hadnt been returned undelivered. It said as Mrs B hadnt responded, the policy 
lapsed. And it said due to the amount of time that had since passed, it was unable to 
consider reinstating it.
Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think Fairmead had 
done anything wrong. 
Fairmead made no further comments. However Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view. 
She said Fairmead had taken a payment from her new bank account in August 2017 without 
any problem, and it would have been able to continue taking the payment from that account, 
as the direct debit instruction was correctly in place and remained that way for some 
considerable time. She said she would like to be compensated due to being unable to make 
a claim when she needed to. And she said Fairmead had no proof she cancelled her policy. 
As Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Fairmead has acted unreasonably or unfairly, and Ill explain 
why. 
Fairmead has said it was notified by the bank that Mrs Bs direct debit instruction had been 
cancelled. Its been unable to provide a copy of this. However Im sufficiently persuaded by 
the evidence Ive seen, that Fairmead received some form of banking notification about a 
direct debit issue. I say this because I think its likely Mrs Bs bank account switch over could 
have caused a banking system notification, due to the direct debit from her original bank 
being transferred to her new bank. And Ive seen nothing which persuades me there is any 
other reason Fairmead would have written to Mrs B to query her direct debit instructions at 
that time.
Although the first payment taken from Mrs Bs new account had been successful on 1 
August 2017, I dont think it was unreasonable for Fairmead to want to query the instruction, 
after receiving information that it had been cancelled. In this situation, I would have expected 
Fairmead to contact the policyholder to find out more information, and thats what it did. Mrs 
B has said that the direct debit instruction on her new bank account was valid and Fairmead 
could have collected the next premium payments due after August 2017. And her bank has 
confirmed this. However, I still dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably in not requesting 
another payment and instead attempting to contact Mrs B. I say this because it had received 
some form of notification that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled, which would 
indicate there was a problem of some kind.  
Fairmead contacted Mrs B about the direct debit cancellation, and it did so using the address 
details it held for her. And this is what I would have expected it to have done. Fairmead has 
provided a copy of the letter, so I accept that this was sent. Fairmead has said that it wasnt 
provided with any updated contact details for Mrs B until she got in touch in 2020 when she 
needed to make a claim. And Mrs B has confirmed that by 2017 she was no longer at the 
address Fairmead held for her. I think it was Mrs Bs responsibility to have kept Fairmead up 
to date with her correct contact details. And I think Fairmead did enough by writing to Mrs B 
using the details it held.  
Mrs Bs premiums had been collected monthly since 2003. Her last payment was taken in 
August 2017, following her change of bank account. And no further premiums were collected 
after that. Ive not seen any evidence Mrs B made contact with Fairmead until she needed to 
make a claim in 2020. I accept that the first direct debit payment in August 2017 successfully 
left Mrs Bs new bank account, so this would have led her to believe the instruction had been 
successfully transferred. However I dont think its unreasonable to expect that Mrs B could 
have noticed that no money had been taken for her policy at all after that time, and that she 
could have contacted Fairmead about this. 
Ultimately the reason for the direct debit issue is unclear, but the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
persuade me that Fairmead made an error. When it identified there was an issue with the 
direct debit, I think it acted fairly in its attempt to contact Mrs B to resolve the problem. Mrs B has said Fairmead has no proof that she cancelled her policy. But I dont think thats a 
relevant consideration here  Fairmead thought the direct debit had been cancelled, which 
could indicate the policyholder no longer wanted the cover. And Im satisfied Fairmead had 
the right to cancel the policy after it received no contact from Mrs B, and collected no further 
premium payments. And there was no obligation on Fairmead to reinstate the policy after so 
much time had passed with no premiums being paid. 
Whilst Im very sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Mrs B has faced due to being unable 
to make a successful claim when she lost her job, Ive not found that Fairmead has done 
anything wrong. So I wont be directing it to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Fairmead Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman