The complaint
Mr A has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he opened a credit card in October 2000. 
What happened
Mr A took out this credit card in October 2000 whilst he was at a business store making a 
purchase. At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy associated with the credit card 
account. Mr A has complained that the PPI was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld his 
complaint. 
Mr A wasnt happy with AXAs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr A didnt agree with that 
recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Mr A took out his credit card and the PPI at the business premises. AXA has provided a 
copy of the application form that Mr A completed and signed. 
I can see there is a section on the form headed Protecting Your Account . This contains the 
following statement: Yes I want to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to 
eligibility). Please debit my account with the relevant premium until further notice. Mr A had 
to sign in this specific section to say that he wanted to take out the PPI, and I can see he did 
sign here, as well as in the separate credit agreement section.
Looking at the form and the information I can see was provided on the form, I think Mr A 
should have been aware that he had a choice about taking out the PPI and he signed to say 
he wanted it. The fact he signed separately to indicate he wanted the cover, makes me think 
Mr A knew this was an optional policy. 
It is also indicated on the form that the insurance would provide cover for the monthly 
repayments of the credit card if Mr A was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So this gave basic information about what the PPI was for.
DRN-1917174I cannot be certain what, if any, additional information would have been provided at the time 
to Mr A when he was completing the form for the credit card application. I think it unlikely he 
would have discussed the PPI in any detail.
The only information provided on the form was that Mr A had to meet eligibility criteria. From 
the information Mr A has told us it seems he did meet the basic criteria for the policy and so 
was eligible for the policy, even though he wasnt informed of the actual criteria at the point 
of sale.
I cannot see that Mr A was given full information about the cost and the benefits of the policy 
at the point he took it out. The cost was £1.00 for every £100.00 of balance showing on the 
credit card each month. If there was no balance no PPI would have been charged. Although 
this level of charge was slightly more than an average credit card PPI, the benefit paid if a 
claim was made was higher at 15% of the balance outstanding on the card at the point of 
claim. So the cost was fair for the benefits available. 
Mr A seems to think a one-off premium was added when he took out the card and policy. 
That was not the case. The card account was open from 2000 to 2005, the PPI was active 
on the account from 2000 until January 2004. The first premium charged in November 2000 
was £1.03. Mr A has provided a copy of a statement from October 2001 which shows a 
premium charged of £1.15. And the last charge for PPI made in January 2004 was for £0.48.
The data provided from the computer records of AXA shows that whilst the account was 
open Mr A spent a total of £456.18 for purchases for his own use. The total cost of the 
monthly premiums for the PPI added to the account was £105.56. When the premium 
amounts were in the balance on the account, some interest would have been caused by 
them, but only a small amount compared to that caused by the spending by Mr A on his 
account.
I hope this information clarifies for Mr A how the PPI was charged and how much he paid for 
the PPI, as he seemed to think he only ever spent under £200 on the account and paid over 
£100 in premiums. That was not the case.
As I have said, the costs of the PPI were fair when taking account of the benefits that could 
have been paid in the event of a claim being made.
Its possible the information given to Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been at the point he completed the application form. But based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, it looks like he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or 
limits on, the PPI cover. For example, he had no unusual employment conditions and no 
medical conditions he already knew about that could have limited claims for sickness. 
So, the policy would have been useful for Mr A if something went wrong.Mr As employer 
would pay sick pay if he was unwell and he has also indicated he had some savings. But the 
PPI wouldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay Mr A received and if he wasnt 
working for any reason his savings could have been used for other living expenses which 
may have been needed at a difficult time. 
It looks like the PPI was affordable and the benefit that could have been paid in the event of 
a claim was reasonable taking account of the cost of the PPI.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs T off taking out the cover at the point of sale. So, it follows I dont think 
the PPI was mis-sold. As AXA was the underwriter of the policy and not the lender of the finance, it is not 
responsible for any excess commission that may have been charged as part of the 
premiums, so it isnt responsible for repayment of any excess commission. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im not upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-
sold to Mr A by AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman