DRN-4036350
The complaint
Mr S complains that Western Union International Bank GmbH (Western Union) refuses to 
refund him losses after he fell victim to a scam.
Mr S was originally supported by a representative, but I understand he is now dealing with 
this case himself. 
What happened
Mr S says he has been the victim of a romance scam. He met the scammer (who Ill call R) 
on a social networking platform and thought he was in a relationship with her. R asked Mr S 
for £60,000 towards flights, hotels and personal expenses so she could come to the 
United Kingdom. Mr S sent money to R using Western Union. 
Between 2017 to 2022, Mr S says he sent £66,475 to the scammer. Including fees and 
charges, Mr S says he lost £66,888. When Mr S became unwell, he had a stay in hospital 
where R asked Mr S for more money. At this time, Mr S was persuaded by doctors in 
hospital that he had been the victim of a scam. 
Mr S, with the help of his care worker, raised a complaint with Western Union  explaining 
he had been the victim of a scam, and wanted Western Union to refund the money he had 
lost. He said Western Union ought to have protected him from falling victim to a scam. Mr S 
has also detailed a number of health issues he is suffering from and explained how 
distressed he was. 
Western Union refused to refund the money Mr S had lost, saying it had done nothing 
wrong. It explained that, as the money had already been paid out by the time Mr S raised his 
concerns with Western Union, it could not refund the money to him. Western Union did say it 
would cooperate with local police if Mr S wanted to report a crime. 
Unhappy with its response, he referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and didnt think Western Union should have to return the money 
to Mr S. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter re-iterating that he had been the victim 
of a scam, and whether he sent small payments or large payments didnt change that he had 
lost out financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that Im aware Mr S has also raised these concerns against another 
bank. But this decision only relates to his complaint against Western Union. 
As Mr S may now be aware, financial businesses (like Western Union) are expected to:
Process the payments Mr S authorises it to make. 
Take measures to prevent Mr S from falling victim to a scam. 
Western Union therefore needs to strike a balance between appropriately intervening 
in some payments to prevent scams, and not unnecessarily inconveniencing or 
delaying legitimate transactions. 
What this means is that Western Union is usually expected to process any payments Mr S 
authorises, but it is also expected to monitor transactions. If any transactions are flagged as 
suspicious, or unusual  Western Union should take measures to prevent Mr S from falling 
victim to a scam. 
Mr S might now also be aware of this, but for completeness I think it may also be helpful to 
explain the following: 
Western Union didnt scam Mr S and was not the perpetrator of his losses. 
As Mr S authorised the payments, the starting point is that he must bear the losses 
that arise from such payments. 
To uphold this complaint, and hold Western Union liable for the losses instead of 
Mr S, Id need to be satisfied that: 
oWestern Union failed in its duty to protect Mr S in some way.
oIf Western Union had instead done what it should have done, this either 
would have stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to 
mitigate the losses once notified of the potential scam. 
As explained by our investigator, Mr Ss transaction history shows that the transactions were 
for relatively small amounts although they were frequent. There isnt a single transaction or a 
series of transactions in a short space of time, that I think ought to have triggered an 
intervention by Western Union. Mr Ss statement shows that while he sent significant sums, 
this was spread over many years. Each transaction looked like usual spending on his 
account. So, I dont think its unreasonable that Western Union didnt flag these transactions 
as unusual or suspicious. Due to the nature of the transactions, in my view, Western Union 
didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to identify the scam. 
Having looked at all the evidence provided, I dont think there was anything happening on 
Mr Ss account that ought to have triggered an intervention from Western Union. 
Unfortunately, Western Union also wasnt able to recover the funds as they had already 
been collected by the beneficiary in the destination country  so there was nothing further it 
could do for Mr S. 
As I have previously said to Mr S, Im very sorry he has suffered so greatly and believe that 
this has caused him significant upset and hardship. But as Ive said above, Western Union 
did not scam him, and I dont think it was ever presented with a realistic or reasonable 
opportunity to prevent the scam. So, as I cant say it unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
prevent the loss, I dont think its fair for it to be held liable for Mr Ss losses. 
My Final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman