DRN-1601935
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by West Bromwich Building Society (WB). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a joint mortgage with WB in 1987. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover their repayments if either were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost their jobs. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs P disagree. They say the policy wasnt presented as optional and they didnt 
need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
The sale took place over 30 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
WB needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr 
and Mrs P havent provided any real specific details about the sale which is understandable 
considering the amount of time that has passed. And WB havent given us any of the 
documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about 
MPPI or how it was presented.
From what Mr and Mrs P have told us the policy was sold during a meeting with an advisor. 
WB have provided us with a sample MPPI application form and explained that there was a 
box on the mortgage application which the customer could select to get information on 
MPPI. If the customer wanted to take out a policy a separate application would need 
completion.  
So based on the information I have I think it is likely MPPI was discussed with the advisor 
and because a separate application form needed completing I think its likely that made Mr and Mrs P wouldve understood that MPPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs P had MPPI 
because they freely chose to take it by completing an application form for it rather than 
anything else.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice or that they didnt agree to buy 
it.
To put Mr and Mrs P in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if WB advised them 
to take the policy. What this means is that WB not only had to provide information about 
MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs P could make an informed 
choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend MPPI that 
the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs and circumstances.
I dont know if WB did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs P for the following reasons:
They were eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like they wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr and Mrs P say they were entitled to sick pay and had savings and help from 
parents to make their repayments if they couldnt work. But there is no guarantee 
their parents could help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits 
and savings and for potentially longer, covering them for up to 12 months if they were 
unable to work due to accident or sickness or if they lost their jobs. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs P in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs P wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs P at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it.
 
I also need to consider whether WB gave Mr and Mrs P information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if WB did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs P have told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper information.
So this means Mr and Mrs P arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by WB.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against West Bromwich 
Building Society.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman