DRN-3183649
The complaint
Mrs L, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Using records supplied by Morses, here is a brief table of the approved loans for Mrs L. 
Mrs Ls representative has explained that Mrs L was in financial difficulties and had little 
income. It says that Mrs Ls situation was: 
Her monthly income was £600 and her expenses mounted up to £550, which left our 
client with £50. This left her with barely enough funds to meet her needs, much less 
cover the weekly loan amortizations on multiple loans. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that by loan 4 Morses ought to 
have ceased lending to Mrs L. Morses disagreed and gave some reasons as to why, all of 
which I have reviewed. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Weekly 
Repayment
109/10/2015 04/05/2016 33 £100.00 £5.00
208/02/2016 25/08/2016 33 £200.00 £15.00
325/08/2016 15/03/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
415/03/2017 01/11/2017 33 £400.00 £20.00stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator thought that this applied 
to Mrs Ls circumstances at loan 4 and Ill come back to this later in the decision.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mrs L didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be deciding 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs L had with Morses 
and relevant for that reason.  
Morses records show that it knew she was a widow and she had told Morses she was 
claiming her pension. Mrs L had declared for loans 1 to 3 respectively a variable income of 
£170 a week, £206 and £155 a week. For loan 4 it had recorded her weekly income as £170. 
And for loan 4 it had recorded she spent money each week on childcare which does not 
appear to fit with her date of birth or her circumstances as a retired widow. 
So, these points, plus the varied declarations on expenditure (which ranged from £60 to 
£107), and the rather odd declaration relating to childcare ought to have prompted some 
additional verification by the time Morses received her fourth application. In addition, as 
loan 4 was for £400, which was four times the amount she had asked for at loan 1, then 
I think that ought to have prompted some additional questions by Morses as well.   
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for the last loan because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mrs L, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances of Mrs Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because of the reasons Ive outlined above as the details it had for Mrs L showed she 
was a low earner and the figures did not necessarily match up. 
I also think that by the time Mrs L was applying for loan 4 she had been indebted to Morses 
for about 18 months with a particularly low income and one which was not likely to be 
augmented by a partner as she was a widow, and not likely to increase as the nature of 
pensions is that they are static. Mrs L had been constantly in debt for almost 18 months 
without any significant gaps in borrowing which should have been a concern to Morses.
In addition:
Mrs Ls first loan was for £100 and loan 4 was for £400. And there had been an 
incremental increase in the intervening loan amounts as the months went by. 
At this point  loan 4 - Morses ought to have known that Mrs L was likely borrowing 
to meet an ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates her problems may have 
been worsening. So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mrs Ls indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Mrs L wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 4 was 
taken out around 18 months after Mrs Ls first loan. And it was for four times the 
amount. Mrs L had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. I think 
that Mrs L lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing at loan 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ls indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs L borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things right 
for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs L at loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs L may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs L would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs L loan 4 and ought to do as follows:
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs L towards interest, 
fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs L 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs L the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ls borrowing for loan 4 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ls credit file. If Morses has 
sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman