DRN-3983523
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Trading 212 UK Limited closed her trading account, causing her 
financial loss as well as a great deal of upset and frustrating her investment plans. 
Mrs R wants financial compensation to put things right.
What happened
On 13 September 2022, Mrs R contacted Trading 212 via its automated chat bot function 
when she was unable to log in to her account. She was asked to supply a photo of her ID 
document along with a selfie of her holding that same document so that her query could be 
passed on to a call handler.
The information Mrs R then provided however related to someone else, not Mrs R herself  
and when she was put through to a call handler, the name and account number she 
provided related to that same third party.
When Mrs R supplied another account holders private account details and personal 
information, this caused Trading 212 to be concerned as it appeared that confidential 
information relating to one or more account holders was not secure.
Trading 212 sent a message to Mrs R and asked her to provide certain information to 
validate her identity. Mrs R was told that she wouldnt be able to open positions or deposit 
with cards until the matter was resolved and warned that failure to provide the requested 
information within three days would result in closure of her Trading 212 account.
Mrs R spoke to a call handler at Trading 212 the next day as she didnt understand why she 
was being asked to provide her personal information and bank details. She said her account 
was ok but as the third partys account was locked she had used my account for chat. 
On 19 September 2022, Trading 212 told Mrs R it was terminating their relationship with 
immediate effect and that any open positions would be closed according to the relevant 
market price and any funds on the account returned.
When Mrs R complained, Trading 212 told her that when it discovered that she was 
operating her personal account and a third-party account as well, in direct breach of the 
Business Agreement she had signed with Trading 212, it made the business decision to 
terminate her trading account.
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Rs complaint but didnt feel that Trading 212 had 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly by closing her account. 
Mrs R remained dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsman referral, so the matter comes to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. I will take into account the relevant 
law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice when deciding if Trading 212 has 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The background facts arent in dispute. Confidential account details belonging to a third 
party, who also had an account on Trading 212's platform, were provided using Mrs Rs 
account. 
Relevant terms and conditions that applied to Mrs Rs account with Trading 212 include the 
following:
You acknowledge that you are not permitted to open and/or operate an Account with us on 
a third party's behalf, regardless of your legal relationsWe reserve the right to unilaterally 
close any such account that we become aware of, and we shall not be liable for any losses, 
damages, costs, or expenses arising from our actions under this clause.
I've taken into account that Mrs R didnt think she was doing anything wrong when her 
account was used to contact Trading 212 when the third party couldnt access their account. 
But it makes no difference, because using or allowing her account to be used this way was 
expressly prohibited under the terms and conditions shed signed up to in order to be able to 
trade using her Trading 212 account. So I cant fairly say that Trading 212 did anything 
wrong when it decided to close Mrs Rs account in line with the terms of the agreement she 
had with Trading 212.   
Mrs R was still entitled to expect Trading 212 to act in a fair and reasonable way and I've 
thought about this carefully. I have kept in mind that Mrs R told us shed invested her life 
savings through her Trading 212 account and when the account was closed, against her 
wishes, investments were sold at a loss. So, I can appreciate that Trading 212s actions 
had a big impact on her.
But I dont find that Trading 212 acted unfairly or unreasonably when it closed Mrs Rs 
account. Its completely understandable why Trading 212 was concerned when it looked like 
both the third party and Mrs R had access to confidential information about each others 
account that shouldnt have been shared. This was further borne out by the fact that when 
checking their account histories, Trading 212 was able to see that the same two devices had 
been used to access and operate both accounts  further suggesting breaches of account 
security. Ive kept in mind that there was never any need for the third party to have access to 
Mrs Rs account. Not being able to log in to their own account wouldnt have prevented the 
third party contacting Trading 212 some other way, by email for instance or phone, which 
would have avoided the security issues that arose here. 
Trading 212 has to meet regulatory requirements set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). And having terms and conditions that say only the account holder can access and 
operate their own account helps keep accounts safe as allowing third-party access risks the 
possibility of unauthorised transactions and fraud. So Im satisfied that Trading 212 did have 
a fair reason for deciding to close Mrs Rs account.In these circumstances, I am satisfied that Trading 212 acted reasonably when it decided to 
restrict Mrs Rs account and ask for verification information whilst it investigated matters and 
ultimately when it closed her account. 
To sum up, I havent seen enough to show that Trading 212 made any error or that it treated 
Mrs R in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So I cant uphold her complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs R but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman