DRN-2835798
The complaint
Ms T has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc  trading a Halifax mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank of Scotland 
charged her a monthly fee for the URCA and provided several potential benefits in return. 
Ms T thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid for the URCA, plus 
interest. 
What happened
Ms T has banked with Bank of Scotland for a long time. Bank of Scotland has looked at its 
records for her, which I believe are reliable, and has told us that for many years she had a 
fee-free account and that it sold her the URCA in July 2009. I understand that Ms T then 
kept the URCA until early in 2021.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ts complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give her any money back. 
Ms T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms T and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ms T has told us quite a bit about her recollections of the way Bank of Scotland sold her the 
URCA. Shes said that she went into one of its branches to enquire about a loan, but it told 
her that her fee-free account  was no longer  suitable  for (her)  needs.  Shes  said that 
basically, (she) went into (her) bank for a loan and came out with (the URCA). Shes told us 
that she wasnt given an option to have a different account and that Bank of Scotland told 
her a fee-free account wasnt suitable for the loan she wanted.
Bank of Scotland seems to have accepted it sold the URCA to during a meeting and that she 
took a loan at around the same time, but it thinks it gave her a fair choice to keep her fee-
free account. 
Obviously, I wasnt present during the discussion between Bank of Scotland and Ms T, and 
neither party has been able to send us any detailed records from the time, so I cant be 
certain about what happened. But I have considered the evidence that is available to decide 
what is most likely to have occurred.
In 2009, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Ms T, as well as giving her a choice, I would 
have expected it to tell her about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised 
sale I would also have expected it to check that the URCA was appropriate for her 
circumstances. 
Ms T has told us that Bank of Scotland advised her to buy the URCA. She has linked this 
directly with her view that it gave her no other option but to buy it.
Bank of Scotland has told us that it sold the URCA to Ms T on an information-only basis. 
This was its usual approach in 2009 and I havent seen anything to make me think it 
changed its normal practice for Ms T. So, I have considered this complaint to be about an 
information-only sale.
To me, the crux of Ms Ts complaint seems to be her statement that Bank of Scotland gave 
her no choice but to take the URCA if she wanted the loan. So, I would first like to confirm 
that she almost definitely could have had a loan without buying the URCA, as banks rarely 
consider the type of account a customer holds when deciding whether to lend money. 
Indeed, I understand that Bank of Scotland had previously loaned quite a large sum to Ms T 
while she had her fee-free account. 
However, two of the benefits of the URCA in 2009 were that customers with them who took 
loans over a certain amount would receive some cashback; and in certain circumstances if 
they overdrew their accounts (which Ms T did from time-to-time) Bank of Scotland would 
charge less interest than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. 
It seems unlikely to me that Bank of Scotland told Ms T her fee-free account was not suitable 
for a loan, as this would have been wrong and contrary to the way it had considered her 
previous request to borrow money. It may well have talked positively about the cashback 
and possible lower cost overdrafts that came with URCA, but this isnt the same as telling Ms 
T that a fee-free account wasnt suitable for her. I fully accept that Ms T is doing her best to 
remember what happened over ten years ago, but I doubt Bank of Scotland misled her in the 
way she has described.
Similarly, as fee-free accounts have been widely available in the UK for many years, both 
from Bank of Scotland and from other banks, I doubt that Bank of Scotland denied Ms T the 
option to keep hers. 
There isnt any significant dispute that Bank of Scotland told Ms T about the fees she would 
have to pay, and as it was trying to sell the URCA to her I think its highly likely that it told her 
about its potential benefits. These benefits seem to have included some which may have 
been of use to Ms T. For example, they included travel insurance and I understand that Ms T 
travelled to Europe from time-to-time so may have found this potentially attractive.  
So, in summary, while I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got everything right in 
the way it sold the URCA to Ms T, Im satisfied that it gave her a choice and told her about 
the accounts potential benefits and costs. I dont think it mis-sold the URCA to her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ts complaint that Bank of 
Scotland Plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold the URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her 
any money back.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman