DRN-2759695
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc wont refund a payment that he didnt make 
from his account.
What happened
Mr S says he was abroad and used his card to make genuine payments to a merchant on 26 
May 2019. But on 19 June 2019 a further payment to the same merchant for £1,270.39 plus 
fees was debited from his account.
The Co-op said it wouldnt be refunding this payment. It initially said that this payment was 
made when the chip on the card was read and the PIN entered as had the others that day. It 
clarified with this service that the chip had been read but a signature taken at the time. But it 
said that this didnt change the outcome as there was no clear way in which the card itself 
had been compromised.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The card had been used for 
another chip and signature payment at 07:25 that morning for £27.49 and then for the one 
that had been disputed at 10:50. Mr S accepted he had made genuine payments with the 
card at 12:28 and 12:33 to that later merchant. The Co-op had provided an audit showing 
that the chip was read for all payments and wed not seen evidence of it being possible to 
clone the chip on a card. Given the time that had passed there was no other information 
available. He didnt think it likely that someone would have been able to take  Mr S card and 
replace it without him knowing. And he couldnt see why a fraudster wouldnt have attempted 
to use the card to make other payments. Mr S hadnt explained how anyone else could have 
used his card. It was a relatively long period before this payment had been debited but that 
didnt affect whether the payment had been authorised here. And he didnt think that The Co-
op ought to have flagged this as unusual especially as all the evidence points to Mr S having 
authorised it.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he was working abroad 
and was with his partner. The work had been gruelling, and it didnt make sense for him to 
have got up early on that Sunday morning to commit fraud or that his partner would have 
done this without him knowing. He hadnt initially noticed the other payment at 07:25 but said 
he wouldnt have made that either. Mr S said he didnt see how he could obtain further 
information to explain what happened when neither this service nor The Co-op could. He 
didnt think that there had been a sufficient investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr S wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr S authorise the payment on the account, or allow someone else to use the card 
as The Co-op says?
- Did The Co-op act reasonably?
It is disappointing that Mr S was originally given the wrong information about how the 
payment he had disputed was authenticated. That was spotted by our investigator and Ive 
seen the relevant audit trail. Im satisfied that the chip on the genuine card was read when 
the payment was made. I can see that this was recorded as a payment where a signature 
was taken. Now Mr S has seen the other earlier payment that day he says that he disputes 
that one too. I note that this was to a different merchant and agree with the timings for all the 
payments our investigator has quoted. We havent seen cases of the chip on a card being 
cloned for everyday use and I find that these disputed payments were authenticated with   
Mr S genuine card. 
I need to think about whether he consented to the payments. There are some aspects of the 
payments which I know make Mr S suspicious about them. This includes the delay in them 
being applied to the account. That seems to be down to the actions of the merchant and the 
payment system. Notably the now two disputed payments to different merchants cleared to 
Mr S account on the same day. The other coincidence is that Mr S had presented his card to 
one of the merchants. But the audit trail shows that the large disputed payment was 
recorded by the system well over an hour before the genuine ones  and the first one much 
earlier than that.
Mr S has maintained he was asleep at the time of the payments. And he doesnt see any 
reason why his partner would have made these payments. He accepted in response to our 
investigator that the idea that his card could have been taken and then replaced from his 
room was unlikely. That would be a significant risk for a fraudster, and I dont see why further 
attempts instead to use the card wouldnt have been made instead. I also note that Mr S was 
asked for his PIN at the same merchant later that day. I dont know how a fraudster could 
have anticipated being able instead to verify such a large payment only with a copy of Mr S 
signature.  
There is a significant amount of money at stake here for Mr S. I wont be able to say exactly 
what happened and will need to base my decision on the information available and what I 
think is most likely. Having done so I dont think that the most likely explanation is that a 
person acting without Mr S authority was able to make the disputed payments. So, Im afraid 
I think it was reasonable for The Co-op to hold him responsible for the payments on his 
account and not to have flagged this one initially disputed as suspicious. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman