DRN-3317315
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, provided him with new and further credit 
which he feels was unaffordable for him at those times.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr M applied for a NewDay administered credit account. Mr Ms application 
was approved, and NewDay opened a new credit account for Mr M with an initial credit limit 
of £900.
In September 2016, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mr Ms account to £1,900. Further 
credit limit increases followed in February 2017 and March 2019, to £2,500 and £4,500 
respectively.
In July 2021, Mr M raised a complaint with NewDay because he felt that both the initial 
provision of credit and the later credit limit increases hadnt been affordable for him at those 
times, and that NewDay should have been aware of that, had they undertaken checks into 
his financial position before providing him with that credit.
NewDay looked at Mr Ms complaint. They confirmed that they had undertaken checks into 
his financial position before providing him with credit, and they felt that theyd been nothing 
resulting from those checks that should have given them reasonable cause to suspect that 
Mr M might not be able to afford the credit he was being offered. So, NewDay didnt uphold 
Mr M's complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it should have been apparent 
from the information that NewDay had assessed when Mr M had first applied for the credit 
account in June 2016, that Mr M wouldnt in all likelihood have been able to afford any 
further credit at that time, and so they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ms 
favour accordingly. 
NewDay didnt agree with the recommendations put forwards by our investigator, and so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
 
NewDay believe that they did that here, and note that at the time of the application they took 
information from Mr M directly about his employment status and annual income, as well as 
obtained information from a credit reference agency so as to get a better understanding of 
Mr Ms wider financial position. And NewDay contend that there was nothing resulting from 
that information that they feel should have given them any reasonable cause to believe that 
Mr M might not be able to afford the credit he was subsequently approved for.
It's notable that when Mr M applied for the credit account in June 2016, he told NewDay that 
he was employed with a gross annual income of £23,800. NewDay also learned that Mr M 
had existing total unsecured borrowing of £17,700 at that time, which equated to 
approximately 74% of Mr Ms gross annual income at that time. Following the opening of the 
NewDay account and the provision of £900 new credit to Mr M, this ratio rose to over 78%
This is a high percentage of existing debt to income, and as such its difficult to understand 
why NewDay classified Mr M at the point of application as being of low indebtedness. And 
while Mr Ms credit file appeared to demonstrate that he was managing to maintain his credit 
commitments at that time  given that there was no record of Mr M being in arrears on any of 
his other existing credit commitments  I feel that this high debt to income ration should have 
given NewDay causes to suspect that Mr M might not be able to reasonably afford the 
provision of any further credit at that time.
At the very least, I feel that the information that NewDay gathered about Mr Ms amount of 
existing debt should have prompted NewDay to conduct more detailed checks into whether 
Mr M would reasonably be able to afford any further credit before providing it to him. And I 
feel that these additional checks should, in all likelihood, have included the review of Mr Ms 
current account statements for the months leading up to the credit account application.
Accordingly, Ive asked Mr M to provide his current account statements for these months, 
and having reviewed these I feel that had NewDay reviewed these as a part of their further 
checks, that it should have been apparent that Mr M wouldnt in all likelihood be able to 
afford any further credit at that time.
This is because its evident from Mr Ms statements that his net income at that time, while 
regular, was of variable amounts, and that Mr M was making regular payments to an existing 
loan and other credit commitments that took up a large portion of his net income. Its also 
notable that Mr Ms current account balance was regularly and consistently overdrawn, and 
that following income payments quickly became overdrawn again.
As such, while it may have been the case that Mr M hadnt fallen into any arrears on his 
existing credit commitments at the time of the credit account application, Im satisfied from 
the information that NewDay did and reasonably should have gathered that Mr Ms financial 
position was delicately poised, such that the provision of further credit to him at that time 
carried a notable risk of placing Mr M into an unsustainable financial position.  
I note that after the opening of the new credit account, Mr M took £800 of the available £900 
credit limit as a cash withdrawal and incurred a charge on the credit account because of this. 
Given the expensive nature of such cash withdrawals from credit accounts, I feel that this 
likely confirms that Mr M was struggling to maintain the integrity of his finances. 
Finally, its notable that when NewDay chose to increase the credit limit on Mr Ms account a 
few months later in September 2016, that they recorded Mr Ms total amount of existing debt 
to have increased to approximately £20,500  an increase of close to £3,000 in just three 
months  which I consider to be further confirmation of Mr Ms deteriorating financial position 
at that time.All of which means that I dont feel that NewDay acted fairly towards Mr M by approving him 
for the new credit account following Mr Ms application for that account in June 2016, and it 
follows from this that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour accordingly.
Putting things right
NewDay must reimburse to Mr Ms account all interest, fees, and charges incurred or 
accrued on the account since its inception.
If these reimbursements result in an account balance in Mr Ms favour, this balance must be 
paid to Mr M along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of payment.
NewDay must also remove all adverse credit reporting relating to this account from the point 
of account opening onwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman