DRN-4130570
The complaint
Mr H complains that Covea Insurance plc declined his claim for storm damage to his home. 
What happened
Mr H had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Covea. It had a home 
emergency extension that was underwritten by another insurer. 
In September 2022 he made a claim on the home emergency cover following water ingress 
to his home after a spell of bad weather. He had issues with the call out initially but his home 
was attended around a week later and the roof was repaired.
After this he made a claim on his home insurance with Covea for the damage to his property. 
It declined the claim as it said the weather on and around the date of the damage didnt meet 
the definition of a storm as laid out in the policy, so cover wouldnt apply. 
Mr H made a complaint but Covea didnt uphold it. So he brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She said while she thought 
Covea had acted fairly by declining the external damage under the storm cover, it hadnt 
considered cover under the accidental damage section of the policy for the internal damage. 
And she thought it should consider this. She also recommended it pay Mr H £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused by not doing this sooner.
Mr H accepted our investigators outcome. However Covea didnt. It said Mr H had failed to 
substantiate his claim with photos of the damage to the roof. So it had been unable to 
validate it and therefore cover wouldnt apply. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy contains a clear definition of what constitutes a storm. It states there need to 
be wind speeds of over 55mph and over 25mm of rain within an hour. From looking at the 
weather reports for the days around when the damage happened, I agree these thresholds 
werent met. So I think Covea acted fairly by declining Mr Hs claim for the external damage 
on this basis.
However Mr Hs policy also contains cover for accidental damage, defined as:
Unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden means
Where there has been damage to the external part of a property due to bad weather, and 
there is accidental damage included on the policy, wed expect the insurer to consider the 
internal damage under this section even if the external damage isnt covered elsewhere. 
Covea has said it hasnt considered this as Mr H has been unable to substantiate his claim 
as he didnt take any photos of the damage to the roof. However I dont think this is a fair 
approach. 
Mr H has provided photos and videos of the water damage to his home that clearly shows 
the damage he is claiming for. Hes also had a contractor attend to fix the damaged roof, so 
would likely be able to provide further evidence of this if requested. It appears Covea has 
done very little to determine if there is a valid claim under accidental damage and has made 
no attempt to assess the claim properly under the policy.
For this reason, I agree with our investigator that it should consider the claim for the external 
damage under the accidental damage cover. As it has provided a poor service so far and 
this has caused Mr H unnecessary distress and inconvenience, it should pay £150 
compensation to apologise for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Consider Mr Hs claim for the internal damage to his property under the accidental 
damage cover in his policy.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman