DRN-3765997
The complaint
Mr T complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) 
provided him with differing pension plan fund valuations.
What happened
In around 1982, Mr T took out a personal pension plan  a unit pension builder with profits  
with a predecessor business of Scottish Friendly. The pension plan was transferred to 
Scottish Friendly in July 2019. 
Mr Ts pension plan matured in mid-May 2020, when he reached 75 years of age. 
Mr T phoned Scottish Friendly on 12 August 2020 to discuss his options, given his pension 
plan had matured. Scottish Friendly then wrote to him, said a retirement pack had been 
requested and listed the value of his plan as £39,403.96 on 10 August 2020. 
Scottish Friendly then wrote to Mr T on 14 August 2020 and provided details of the options 
available to him regarding his pension funds. It told Mr T the value of the pension fund was 
£44,811.52 on 13 August 2020. 
Scottish Friendly wrote to Mr T again on 3 September 2021. It said that as he had reached 
age 75 and hadnt selected one of the options available to him, it had ceased his pension 
plan and moved his funds to a holding account. 
Mr T contacted Scottish Friendly in February 2022 to again request details of the options 
available to him. Scottish Friendly responded and said the value of Mr Ts plan, when it 
matured on his 75th birthday, was £35,668.13.  
Mr T complained to Scottish Friendly in April 2022 about the differing fund valuations that 
were provided, including that a Scottish Friendly adviser told him by phone that the value 
was nil. 
Scottish Friendly responded and acknowledged providing different valuations. It said it had 
delayed locking in the value of the pension plan on Mr Ts 75th birthday, which is why he was 
provided with incorrect valuations. Scottish Friendly said the correct value of the pension 
fund, at the date of his 75th birthday, was £35,668.13. It offered Mr T £400 by way of an 
apology. 
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. He also told us the 
predecessor business transferred his pension plan to Scottish Friendly in 2019, and hed not 
wanted it to do this, as it was just months away from maturing.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that while Scottish Friendly initially 
provided an incorrect, higher valuation, the correct pension fund amount was £35,668.13. So 
while the error caused Mr T distress and inconvenience, there was no financial loss. Our 
Investigator thought the £400 compensation already offered by Scottish Friendly was fair.  
Mr T didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr T has found this situation frustrating. Hes been provided with a pension 
plan valuation of £44,851.42, only to have Scottish Friendly inform him later that the 
valuation was incorrect, and that the correct valuation was significantly lower, at £35,668.13
It might help to explain that, as per the plan terms, Mr Ts pension fund matured on his 75th 
birthday. What this means is that the value of the pension fund on that date is locked in. 
I know Mr T was concerned about not receiving correspondence from Scottish Friendly 
about his options once his fund matured. He thought this might have had an impact on the 
value. But any error made by Scottish Friendly in relation to how it corresponded with Mr T 
hasnt had an impact on the actual value of the pension fund. Even if Mr T withdraws the 
funds at a much later date, the amount he will receive is still what the value was on the date 
of his 75th birthday. 
The error made here by Scottish Friendly is that it didnt lock in the value of the fund on 
Mr Ts 75th birthday as it should have done. So when it wrote to Mr T on 14 August 2020 it 
listed the value of the fund on 13 August 2020, when it should have listed the value as it 
stood on the date of Mr Ts 75th birthday, which was around three months earlier. 
So Im satisfied that Scottish Friendly acted fairly, and in line with the plan terms, when it told 
Mr T that the value of the fund was as it stood on his 75th birthday. I know that Mr T is 
concerned about the drop in the value of his pension fund at his 75th birthday. Unfortunately, 
the maturity date of his plan coincided with significant market turmoil due to Covid. Scottish 
Friendly has provided a statement showing that the amount locked in on that date was 
£35,668.13, so Im also satisfied that this valuation is correct. 
It's clear Mr T has experienced both distress and inconvenience here. I can see how being 
provided with three different valuations would have been confusing, and hes had to get in 
contact with Scottish Friendly to try and sort this matter out. But I think the £400 
compensation already offered by Scottish Friendly is fair in this instance. 
I can see that Mr T was concerned about his pension plan being moved to Scottish Friendly 
in 2019. He said he hadnt wanted his plan to be transferred, and I can see he was also 
concerned that the decrease in value of his plan and the transfer might be connected. 
However, the complaint Im dealing with is against Scottish Friendly and so I cant look at the 
actions of another business in this decision.  
I know my decision will disappoint Mr T, but I could only ask Scottish Friendly to take a 
different course of action here if I thought it had done something wrong, but Im satisfied it 
hasnt. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman