DRN-3658802
Complaint
Mr L has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr L with a loan for £3,500.00 in June 2015. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £143. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ls 
complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr L with his loan. Avant 
Credit didnt agree, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. 
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check. The 
results of which are more likely than not to have demonstrated that Mr L was already 
significantly indebted. He had more than one default  albeit they were historic but he also 
had more than one revolving credit account which was close to its limit and another which 
was over its limit. And while Avant Credit says this loan was for debt consolidation, the 
amount didnt correspond to what Mr L owed. So its unclear to me how or what was going to 
be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mr Ls financial position. 
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Ls expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr L was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also seen why this 
was the case. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr L has said about already being in a difficult financial position at 
the time. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out 
more about Mr Ls income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr L. As Avant Credit 
provided Mr L with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him and it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr L by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made, to Avant Credit (and any debt purchaser since the account was 
sold), should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3.500.00 originally 
lent. If Mr L has already repaid more than £3,500.00 then Avant Credit should treat 
any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr L;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr L to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ls 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account (should it buy it back from to third-party debt purchaser it sold his 
debt to), and its the case that Mr L is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman