DRN-1769412
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited is holding him 
responsible for a debt which he says isnt his.
What happened
In June 2016, an account was opened in Mr Ss name with a credit card provider, A.
By August 2017, there was a debt of £1,692.86 on the account. A defaulted the account 
and assigned the debt to Cabot in September 2017. The default was registered on Mr Ss 
credit file.
Mr S said he only became aware of the debt in 2019, after his business had been turned 
down for credit. He said he checked his credit file and thats when he saw the default.
He contacted Cabot and told it that the account wasnt his and he knew nothing about it. He 
said he believed his wife had applied for the credit card as it was her address on the 
application. He said he wasnt in the country when the application was made and, as he 
didnt live at the address, he hadnt seen any statements or correspondence from Cabot. 
However, as he needed the default removed, he agreed to settle the debt and he paid it off 
in August 2019. Cabot closed the account with a zero balance. However, the information 
relating to the debt remained on his credit file.
Mr S complained to Cabot. He said he still couldnt get any credit because the debt was 
showing on his credit file. He asked it to remove all adverse information relating to the debt 
from his credit file and to refund the money that hed paid. He also instructed lawyers to take 
legal proceedings against Cabot.
Cabot replied that it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had no reason to doubt the debt 
was his when A assigned it to Cabot. It said his details were on the application form. Also, it 
had acted correctly by sending him notices that it was the legal owner. And it said that once 
an account has defaulted, it will remain on the credit file for six years from the date of 
default. However, his file has been updated to show that hed paid off the debt. It said he 
needed to contact A if the application was made fraudulently.
Mr S didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She had 
contacted A who carried out its own investigation. A confirmed that Mr S had been the 
victim of impersonation fraud and was taking steps to remove the account from his credit file.
She recommended that Cabot repay the £1,692.86 with interest and £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr S.
Cabot didnt accept our investigators view. It said Mr S knowingly made a payment to settle 
the debt and, if it had known of the fraud, it wouldnt have accepted the payment. It 
maintained it acted correctly and had done nothing wrong. It saw no reason to refund him.
This case how now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
A carried out an investigation into Mr Ss complaint. It determined that the application had 
been made fraudulently and that Mr S was the victim of impersonation fraud. Cabot, in its 
response to our investigators view, confirmed it wasnt challenging this aspect. I can 
reasonably conclude, therefore, that Mr S didnt apply for the credit card account and the 
debt wasnt his. 
I recognise that Mr S paid off the debt before A had completed its investigation but, of itself, 
I dont consider this means he accepted legal responsibility for it. He always made it clear 
that his objective was to clear his credit file. But, in any event, as Mr S was the victim of 
impersonation fraud  and Cabot doesnt dispute this - then I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for Cabot to refuse a refund. 
I will now be instructing Cabot to put things right. As Cabot couldve settled this dispute 
earlier, I will be asking it to pay the compensation for trouble and upset as recommended by 
our investigator. Mr S said his credit file is still affected so I will also be asking Cabot to 
amend his credit files.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and Im instructing Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited to:
repay the £1,692.86 to Mr S
pay 8% interest from date Mr S made the payment until settlement
pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S
remove all adverse information relating to the debt from Mr Ss credit files.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman