DRN-1831352
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the advice they were given by the Mortgage Advice Bureau 
about taking out a bridging loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C contacted MAB in 2014. The term of their existing mortgage had expired and 
they wanted to raise capital to invest in a business. MAB recommended a bridging loan. 
Mr and Mrs C say the bridging loan wasn't suitable. They say they needed a loan for more 
than one year and the repayment strategy was speculative as it relied on them selling land 
without planning consents. Mr and Mrs C say the rolled up interest eroded their capital, 
meaning they didn't have enough equity to buy a new property. They say it wasn't suitable 
advice to refinance. 
Mr and Mrs C also complain that MAB wasn't transparent about the fees it received from the 
lender.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the bridging loan met 
Mr and Mrs C's stated requirements. It didn't seem they had other options at that time.
Mr and Mrs C didn't agree. Mr C said the previous lender wasn't taking steps to foreclose. 
He said MAB wasted time and manufactured a sense of urgency. It then recommended an 
unsuitable product, which was considerably more expensive than their existing loan, instead 
of telling them no suitable product was available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C provided information about their circumstances in 2014, what they say their 
objectives were and why they feel the bridging loan didn't meet these objectives. It's helpful 
to have an understanding of their situation. In fairness, I must also take into account the 
information provided by MAB about what Mr and Mrs C told it in 2014, when it recommended 
the bridging loan.
MAB recommended the bridging loan. So it needed to obtain all relevant information and 
ensure it was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs and circumstances. Im satisfied that it did 
this.
When Mr and Mrs C contacted MAB the term of their existing mortgage had expired. Mr C 
provided notes of a meeting with his previous lender as evidence it wasn't about to start 
repossession action. But the meeting was in January 2014: I don't think this proves the 
lender wouldn't have started action when the term extension ended in August 2014. The notes make it clear the lender wouldn't extend the loan again and it expected Mr and Mrs C 
to provide evidence they'd put the property on the market.
MAB did a fact find with Mr and Mrs C. It provided a copy of its fact find, recommendation 
letter, mortgage offer and notes. These documents say Mr and Mrs C intended to downsize 
to a property costing between £900,000 to £1,300,000. They were in the process of selling 
their house for between £2.8 to £3 million. The house was on the market, but they didn't 
have time to complete a sale as their current lender hadn't agreed to extend their loan, of 
about £1 million, which was due to expire in August 2014. They also wanted to raise about 
£200,000 for business and personal use. 
MAB said Mr and Mrs C's income at the time made it unlikely they'd be offered a traditional 
mortgage. MAB recommended interest roll up to keep monthly costs to a minimum. And it 
recommended the lender as its criteria matched Mr and Mrs C's needs, and it accepted that 
their income was relatively sparse and non-traditional.
MAB's recommendation letter says it recommended a term of 12 months because, while Mr 
and Mrs C were confident of selling their house sooner, this gave them some leeway, and 
any retained interest would be refunded. The property was valued by a surveyor, who gave 
the property a market value of £2.6 million for a sale within six months.
The mortgage offer sets out the terms of the lending, including interest, and the fees payable 
and that the lender would pay commission to MAB. Mr and Mrs C agreed to this when they 
agreed to take out the bridging loan.
I don't think MAB manufactured a sense of urgency. I think Mr and Mrs C needed to 
refinance because the term of their existing mortgage had expired and their existing 
lender wouldn't extend the term again. Mr and Mrs C's options were limited. The bridging 
loan allowed them time to complete a property sale and raised capital for their business. I 
think, based on the available evidence, it was reasonable for MAB to recommend 
the bridging loan as suitable for Mr and Mrs C's stated needs and circumstances at the time.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman