DRN-1822667
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has restrictions 
on the vouchers they were issued as part of their contents insurance claim.
To resolve their complaint Mr and Mrs G want to be able to use the vouchers they accepted 
without any restrictions.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs G are looking to receive vouchers with no restrictions, as they, through 
their representative were not informed of the restrictions when they accepted the 
vouchers. They say this was despite asking about this. However, as our investigator 
set out, this was an error. So the vouchers always had restrictions, they were just not 
told about them. Putting them in the position now of having vouchers without 
restrictions would not create a position they ever could have been in, so its not 
something I agree is fair.
RSA has offered for Mr and Mrs G to return the vouchers and receive a cash 
settlement instead. So in effect, letting them re-make their decision about whether to 
accept the vouchers knowing the true restrictions on them  or instead accept a cash 
settlement. This looks to recreate the position they shouldve been in initially, so I 
think this offer is fair.
RSA has also offered £100 in compensation and to arrange for a discount on the 
item Mr G wanted to purchase with the vouchers, but couldnt. Considering the value 
of the item, this discount does equate to a large sum of money. Looking at the case 
overall, I think this compensates them for the disappointment theyve experienced 
and the time it took to receive the correct information. I havent been shown they 
suffered any other losses, so I dont think RSA needs to increase this compensation 
offer.
I don't think it would be fair or reasonable to ask RSA to do anything further, as I 
think the offer its made is fair in the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman