DRN-2585877
The complaint
Mr K complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited mishandled his rejection of a car, that hed 
acquired under a hire purchase agreement, which wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr K acquired a used car under a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. Mr K says, within a few days of collecting the car, he complained to the 
dealership about a grinding noise it was making when turning the steering wheel to the left. 
The car was checked and returned to Mr K.
Mr K says that over the following months he repeatedly took the car back to the dealership 
over it pulling to the left when being driven. In February 2020, the dealership agreed that the 
car was unsafe, and that Mr K could reject it and unwind the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr K didnt get his deposit back for around 28 days and, without this lump sum he wasnt in a 
position to arrange a new finance agreement for another car. He says he had no choice, due 
to his personal circumstances, but arrange a hire car for that period.
Mr K complained to MotoNovo about the dealerships handling of his complaint and the 
amount he had been reimbursed. He said that, as the car had been dangerous to drive and 
caused him significant distress and inconvenience, he should receive back all of his monthly 
payments under the agreement. MotoNovo said that, as Mr K had driven the car an 
additional 4,675 miles in the time he had it in his possession, it was fair to charge him for 
that use. It said it was not going to reimburse the three monthly instalments he had made 
under the agreement.
Mr K was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld as she thought MotoNovo could have 
done more when he had brought it his complaint. The dealership had agreed Mr K was 
entitled to reject the car due to its quality and our investigator said that, in these 
circumstances, MotoNovo should have been looking at not only putting Mr K back in the 
position he would have been in had he not taken out the agreement, but also recognising 
any distress and inconvenience caused to him by dealing with a faulty car.
Looking at the return of Mr Ks deposit and the amount provided for the part exchange for his 
previous car, our investigator said that it had taken the dealership around 28 days to 
reimburse Mr K. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, this amount should have been 
returned within 14 days. As the dealership had been acting as an agent for MotoNovo, then 
it was fair for Mr K to be reimbursed for two of the weeks hed had to hire a car. She also 
said Mr K should receive interest on the deposit amount that was repaid.
Our investigator said that, although Mr K had made use of the car and that deduction for use 
was fair, she thought in the circumstances Mr K had had little choice but to use it. And that 
his enjoyment in using the car had been spoilt, as he was concerned about whether it was 
safe to do so. Mr K had also had to take the car back and forth to the dealership while the 
issue with it was investigated. Our investigator said she thought Mr K should be reimbursed 
15% of each of the monthly payments hed made.
Our investigator said that Mr K had explained this had been a difficult time, due to a family 
members ill health and the need to attend hospital appointments. Hed also been asked by 
MotoNovo to supply information about any other expenses hed faced due to the faulty car 
but, when he had responded to that request, MotoNovo hadnt replied. She said, looking at 
this, she thought compensation of £200 would be fair and reasonable.
Mr K said he thought additional compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him would be fair. MotoNovo said that there wasnt evidence Mr K had made 
repeated trips to the dealership, and that it was unfair to hold it responsible for the 
dealerships delay in refunding the deposit and part exchange amounts, as it wasnt involved 
in that. It said that it was fair to make a deduction from any refund for the amount of use Mr 
K had had of the car. 
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As it isnt disputed the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, I dont need to 
set out the details of that, save to say that the fault with the car was that it pulled severely to 
the left. The dealership said, in February 2020, that the car was unsafe to use. So, the issue 
for me to resolve is what would make a fair settlement to Mr K for having to deal with the 
faulty car.
Looking first at the return of the deposit and part exchange amount, I appreciate this was 
arranged by the dealership with no involvement from MotoNovo, but I disagree that means 
MotoNovo has no responsibility for the delay and the impact this had on Mr K. Mr K had 
purchased the car via a regulated financial agreement and MotoNovo, as the credit provider, 
was responsible for the quality of the car that was supplied. So, with MotoNovo responsible 
for the quality of the defective car, and with Mr K entitled to reject it, I think it is fair to see 
MotoNovo as liable for how that rejection and cancelling of the agreement were handled by 
the dealership.
I think Mr K is credible when he explains that, until he received his deposit and part 
exchange amount back, he wasnt in a position to take out a new agreement for another car. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015, says that a refund should be made within 14 days, and Mr 
K has provided evidence the monies werent returned to him until 28 days later. I think Mr K 
renting a car in the interim was a reasonable thing to do, and he has provided the invoice for 
that. I agree with our investigator that MotoNovo should refund him two weeks car rental. I 
also agree that he should receive interest on the deposit and part exchange amount, from 
the time he paid the money and handed his original car in to the dealership until the date he 
was repaid.
Ive seen both Mr K and MotoNovo are unhappy about the reimbursement of part of his 
monthly instalments, although for very different reasons. I agree that, under the Consumer 
Rights Act, MotoNovo was entitled to make a deduction from any refund for the use Mr K 
had of the vehicle. 
Here, Mr K continued to use the car, even though he was very unhappy about the way it 
drove and its safety. For personal reasons he had no choice but to drive it while his 
complaint about the cars fault was being investigated. As he drove just over 900 miles per month, I think a deduction for use is fair so I dont agree with Mr K that he should have the 
whole of his instalment reimbursed.
MotoNovo has queried whether Mr K returned the car to the dealership on multiple 
occasions, but I think there is sufficient evidence that corroborates what Mr K says about 
that. This includes an email from the dealership itself that sets out the car had been tracked 
and subject to re-alignment on several occasions. Mr K has also provided the invoices for 
when the car was seen at the dealership. So, taking that into account, as well as the fact that 
Mr Ks use of the car was spoiled by this fault, I think Mr K is entitled to receive part of his 
instalments back. 
Mr K has raised the dangerousness of the car and the potential for an accident and, 
although I accept being told the car was dangerous to use would be alarming, I cant award 
compensation for what might have happened. 
Taking everything into account I think our investigators approach of reimbursing Mr K 15% 
of each monthly instalment he paid is fair.
I accept this has been a very stressful time for Mr K and he has also had to deal with a 
family members ill health, which meant having a reliable car was essential. Ive seen Mr K 
was distressed at the dealerships handling of his complaint and, as explained to him by our 
investigator, that isnt something I can look at. However, I think dealing with the faulty car 
has caused Mr K unnecessary distress and inconvenience so, in addition to the 
reimbursement of part of his monthly instalments, I think MotoNovo should pay Mr K £200 
compensation for the impact this has had on him.
So, for the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint although I am not 
increasing the compensation recommended by our investigator.
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo Finance Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr K two weeks of the car hire rental cost due to the delay in receiving back 
his deposit and part exchange cost.
Add interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple to the amount re-paid for the deposit and 
part exchange cost from the date of payment by Mr K to the date of settlement.
Refund Mr K 15% of the three monthly instalments paid by him under the agreement 
together with interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused dealing with 
the faulty car.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im asking MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr K two weeks of the car hire rental cost due to the delay in receiving back 
his deposit and part exchange cost.
Add interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple to the amount re-paid for the deposit and part exchange cost from the date of payment by Mr K to the date of settlement.
Refund Mr K 15% of the three monthly instalments paid by him under the agreement 
together with interest on that amount at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused dealing with 
the faulty car.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 07 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman