DRN-3259551
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods, has not 
rebated interest on her catalogue shopping account. 
What happened
Mrs G has a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, 
trading as Littlewoods (SDFC), from which she has purchased goods using SDFCs Buy 
Now Pay Later (BNPL) facility. In 2021, Mrs G made an overpayment to clear her account 
balance, however she noticed that SDFC hadnt applied any form of interest rebate when 
she checked her next account statement.
Mrs G complained to SDFC in March 2021. However, she didnt receive any reply to her 
complaint points, so Mrs G referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. She said, in summary, that SDFCs terms 
and conditions explained how interest would be charged on BNPL accounts and that Mrs G 
had the option of clarifying how these worked if she was unsure. Our investigator also said 
that the entitlement to a rebate effectively ended when SDFC decided to no longer send 
separate credit agreements for purchased goods after 2010. 
Mrs G didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has made a number of points in relation to how SDFC has operated the catalogue 
shopping account, and in particular how BNPL transactions are treated. I think the main 
thrust of Mrs Gs complaint is around a few key points, which Ill summarise below:
SDFC used to provide early settlement rebates and so it was reasonable to think this 
hadnt changed; 
If SDFC had specifically told her this had changed, or their terms and conditions had 
made that clear, she would have either fully repaid in the BNPL periods or stopped 
using the account;
Its unfair for SDFC to apply the full amount of payable interest once the BNPL period 
has ended;
SDFC has potentially breached the Consumer Credit Act by not rebating interest.
Essentially, the way in which Mrs Gs account operates changed shortly after 2010. Ive seen 
that, prior to this, when Mrs G ordered goods, she signed separate fixed-sum loan credit 
agreements. Ive also seen that each credit agreement specifically set out that Mrs G was 
entitled to settle them at any time and that the amount owed might have been reduced by a 
rebate depending on when payment was made. 
Since 2010 though, the goods Mrs G ordered went through her catalogue shopping account 
with no separate fixed sum loan credit agreements being put in place. So, what SDFC did in 
effect was to introduce interest bearing terms into the account at that time. And, as the 
catalogue shopping account operates as a running account credit facility, there is no 
entitlement to an interest rebate under Section 95 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This is 
set out in The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 under section 2.(2)(b). 
Mrs G says she wasnt told about this change and I am inclined to agree with her. I say this 
noting that SDFC has said that they didnt send a notice of variation because the fixed sum 
loan credit agreements were offers which they chose not to continue. However, while it may 
have been helpful for SDFC to have explained what had changed to Mrs G, I dont think they 
were obligated to do so. And, even if I am wrong about that, Mrs G would have been aware 
that she was no longer signing credit agreements for each order. I think that could have 
prompted Mrs G to have asked SDFC whether anything had changed and that likely would 
have led to SDFC explaining how the account would operate from then on, and how orders 
for goods and their payment terms would work.  
Mrs Gs account and the BNPL option has, to my knowledge, operated in broadly the same 
way since SDFC introduced interest bearing terms into the account in 2010. I dont find that 
the way it which this has operated has disadvantaged Mrs G or that the terms for ordering 
and paying for goods using the BNPL option werent applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mrs G was also presumably aware of how the payments she 
made were applied to each order and budgeted for this accordingly.
Mrs G has mentioned that it is unfair for SDFC to hold her (and other customers) liable for 
the total amount of interest due if payment for ordered goods arent received by the end of 
the respective BNPL periods. Mrs G gives an example where someone could be liable for 
four years worth of interest if they repay the cost of the ordered item one month after the 
BNPL period ends. I take Mrs Gs point here, but this doesnt as far as I know contravene 
any regulation set out in the Consumer Credit Act or any other legislation. I am aware that 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced new rules for BNPL products effective 
from November 2019, which included banning firms from charging backdated interest on 
money thats been repaid by a consumer during the BNPL period. However, that is a 
specific, non-retrospective change made by the FCA and doesnt to my mind have any direct 
relevance to or bearing on Mrs Gs complaint. 
I realise that SDFCs account may operate differently to other credit providers. However, 
SDFC is entitled to operate their accounts as they see fit if they comply with all relevant law 
and legislation and do not create unfairness or material disadvantages to their customers. I 
havent seen anything to make me think SDFC has acted outside of those parameters in the 
way in which it has operated Mrs Gs account. And I see no possible reason why it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask SDFC to refund all of the interest applied to the account as she 
requests. 
So, for the reasons given above, I wont be upholding Mrs Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman