DRN-3951894
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) is refusing to refund 
him the amount he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr M contacted a third party on Instagram having seen videos offering financial 
investment services being advertised. The business Mr M was in contact with was called 
expert trades 247 (X). X explained Mr M would see a return of ten times what he invested 
and that the minimum investment was £300.
Believing the investment opportunity was genuine Mr M made an initial investment. But 
when Mr M attempted to withdraw funds from the investment, he was told he would need to 
send more money first, which he did. 
After sending a total of almost £1,000 to X via the legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges 
Moonpay and Coinbase Mr M realised he had fallen victim to a scam and was unable to 
recover the money he had lost.
Mr M made the following payments using his Visa debit card:
1. 12 May 2022 - £99.73
2. 12 May 2022 - £200
3. 12 May 2022 - £300 - blocked
4. 12 May 2022 - £200 - blocked
5. 12 May 2022 - £200 - blocked
6. 12 May 2022 - £200
7. 13 May 2022 - £300
8. 13 May 2022 - £200
9. 13 May 2022 - £200
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr M 
disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr M made in relation to this 
scam to Moonpay and Coinbase.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr M was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr M didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges 
(Moonpay and Coinbase). This is important because Halifax was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchants he paid (Moonpay and Coinbase), not another 
party (such as X).
The service provided by Moonpay and Coinbase would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Moonpay and Coinbase 
provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr M paid. As Moonpay and 
Coinbase provided the requested service to Mr M any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr M has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Moonpay and Coinbase, so the 
starting point here is that Mr M is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mr M was making.
All the payments Mr M made were for a relatively low amount. So, I wouldnt expect the 
amounts of the payments to trigger Halifaxs fraud prevention systems. While I can see that 
Mr M had not previously made payments to Coinbase or Moonpay before the scam these 
were legitimate businesses so I also wouldnt expect the businesses he was paying to 
necessarily trigger the fraud prevention systems either. After all it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to say Halifax should step in every time a customer tried to pay someone new.
I can see the third, fourth and fifth payment Mr M attempted to make were automatically 
blocked by Halifaxs system but that four other payments were processed. I think this is 
reasonable even though the payments were blocked, Mr M reattempted the payments 
confirming it was himself attempting to make each of them.
Overall, I dont think Halifaxs fraud prevention systems would have been triggered by the 
payments Mr M was making, or that it should have stepped in to prevent the payments being 
made, especially as Mr M confirmed each of the payments as being genuine in the Halifax 
app.
As Halifaxs fraud prevention systems were not triggered by the payments Mr M was making, 
I dont think it missed an opportunity to step in and prevent the scam from taking place. So, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Halifax to refund any of the payments Mr M made in 
relation to the scam.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman