DRN-2943510
The complaint
Mr L complains that he has suffered a financial loss because Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited delayed the payment of his pension tax free cash. He also complains that 
he received poor customer service. 
What happened
Mr L contacted Prudential in September 2019 to obtain the options for taking his pension. 
Specifically he asked Prudential for a number of annuity quotations. There was a phone call 
in the latter part of September 2019 to discuss the available options during which it was 
agreed that Prudential would send Mr L various quotes. Despite Mr L chasing Prudential for 
the quotes they were not sent, so in December 2019 he complained. Prudential looked into 
the complaint and upheld it. It said Mr L had experienced long call waiting times and that 
there had been a delay in providing him with his quotes. Prudential paid Mr L compensation 
of £200. 
Prudential sent Mr L his retirement quotes in January 2020 and he made his selection 
towards the end of the month. Despite doing so, Mr L continued to receive poor customer 
service, so in late January 2020 Mr L complained to Prudential again. He said he was 
unhappy about the delays in processing his pension claim and Prudentials failure to call him 
when promised. Prudential processed Mr Ls selection in March and he received the tax-free 
cash into his bank account in early April. 
Prudential issued its final response to Mr Ls complaint in May 2020. It agreed he had 
received poor customer service on his retirement journey for which it was sorry. Prudential 
said it had a duty of care to help its customers along their journey and to make it as 
straightforward as possible. It said that as Mr Ls journey had taken 7 months itd clearly let 
him down. To apologise for the trouble and upset it had caused him, Prudential paid Mr L 
further compensation of £500. In addition, as it had delayed the processing of his pension, it 
had looked at whether the delay hed suffered had caused him any financial disadvantage. 
Prudential said, if the process had gone according to plan, Mr Ls pension shouldve been 
settled on 8 October 2019.
But Prudential went on to say that if Mr Ls pension had been settled then, the value of his 
fund wouldve been lower resulting in a smaller tax-free cash payment and a smaller annual 
annuity. So Prudential said it was setting up his annual annuity with a revised start date of 
4 December 2019 as Mr Ls fund was worth more on this date. Prudential said that the tax-
free cash shouldve been paid on the same date but wasnt actually paid until 30 March 
2020. So Prudential calculated interest on the tax-free cash amount from 4 December 2019 
to 30 March 2020  equating to £497.71 (using this services rate of 8% simple per year). 
Prudential also said itd noticed itd continued to collect Mr Ls premiums from him in error 
from December 2019 to March 2020 which had now been refunded to him but it was also 
adding interest to them totalling a further £2.74.
Prudential also referred to a conversation itd recently had with Mr L when hed mentioned 
itd been his intention to invest his tax-free cash in mid-March 2020 into a particular share 
when its price was at its lowest as hed wanted to capitalise on the state of the stock market. 
Prudential acknowledged Mr Ls complaint that the delay in it paying his tax-free cash might 
have prevented him from being able to make the investment but said that it was difficult to 
assess compensation for any financial loss based on an intention. So, it said, it would need 
to see evidence of other shares Mr L had purchased around the middle of March 2020, or 
since, before it could consider the loss Mr L said hed suffered. 
Mr L told Prudential he wasnt satisfied with the outcome of his complaint. He said his health 
conditions had deteriorated as a result of the worry Prudential had caused him. Mr L sent 
Prudential some contract notes for shares he had bought along with his shareholding 
statement to assist it with his complaint about the delay in paying his tax-free cash causing 
him a financial loss as hed been unable to take advantage of a low price for a particular 
share. Mr L said it was still his intention to use his tax-free cash to buy the same shares 
once his complaint with Prudential was concluded. Mr L also complained about the number 
of different complaint handlers that had dealt with his complaint. 
Prudential looked again at Mr Ls complaint and issued a second final response letter in late 
July 2020. It apologised again for the shortcomings in the customer service Mr L had 
received and the number or different complaint handlers that had dealt with his complaint. 
Prudential paid Mr L a further £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused. It said that it was unable to complete a financial loss calculation until Mr L had 
invested in the shares. 
Mr L went ahead and purchased the shares in July 2020 by which time they were at a higher 
price than they had been in March 2020. Mr L sent the information about the purchase to 
Prudential so it could consider his financial loss. After chasing Prudential throughout 
September 2020, Mr Ls complaint was passed to a new complaint handler who told him he 
would now carry out a financial loss assessment. Six weeks later, when hed heard nothing 
further, Mr L chased Prudential again and was reassured hed receive a call back. When he 
didnt, he called again in early December 2020. 
Prudential issued its third final response letter on 17 December 2020 paying Mr L a further 
£150 in compensation for the trouble and upset its poor customer service had caused him. 
But in respect of his complaint about suffering a financial loss as a result of being unable to 
purchase the shares he wanted in March 2020, Prudential said itd seen no evidence of any 
intention by Mr L to buy the shares prior to April/May 2020. So, it said, it was unable to agree 
to his request for financial compensation for the loss he was claiming. 
Mr L told Prudential he was very disappointed with the outcome of his complaint. He said 
Prudentials complaint handler had told him in July 2020 to buy the shares and send in the 
contract note when hed done so. He repeated his complaints about the poor service hed 
received and he said hed been told by two complaint handlers that they would calculate his 
financial losses for not being able to buy the shares in March 2020 but they had not done so. 
Prudential called Mr L at the end of January 2021 and said it was sending him a further £250 
in compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused. It also told him it would not be 
compensating him for any loss of investment value because there was no evidence to 
suggest he wasnt making his claim with the benefit of hindsight. Mr L said hed have never 
purchased the shares in July 2020 if Prudential hadnt insisted he needed to so it could 
calculate his financial loss. 
Prudential issued a further final response letter at the end of January 2021. It said it thought 
its stance on the purchase of the shares was a reasonable one but said it understood that it 
was difficult to evidence an intention to do something. Prudential said it thought the interest it 
had paid Mr L for the delay in making the tax-free cash payment was appropriate as the amount paid was greater than the FTSE 100 investment growth over the same period. But it 
also thought that itd failed to handle Mr Ls complaint as efficiently as it should have 
particularly in relation to a lack of strategy when asking for evidence of share buying. It said 
the involvement of numerous complaint managers meant its message was not always clear 
and consistent. Prudential acknowledged its communications in July 2020 may have led 
Mr L to make the share purchase so, it said, if he now felt he shouldnt have done so he 
should sell them in order to mitigate his loss. It said it would then look at any loss made and, 
with evidence, put him back in the position he wouldve been but for the purchase. Prudential 
referred to the £250 compensation it had recently mentioned it was going to pay him. 
In February 2021, Mr L complained to this service. He said that with his tax-free cash of 
£24,060 he couldve bought 2704 shares at their lowest price in March 2020. When he 
purchased the same amount in shares in July 2020 though, hed had to pay £33,300. After 
deducting charges he said hed suffered a loss of £9,420. Mr L said this was the amount he 
sought from Prudential. And he said it should compensate him for the impact its actions had 
had on his health. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint, first obtaining Prudentials consent to look at 
all the complaints hed made back to January 2020. She noted that the service Mr L had 
received from Prudential had caused a fair amount of frustration, disappointment and anxiety 
which she thought, along with the delay in processing Mr Ls pension, was avoidable. But 
our investigator also noted that Prudential had paid Mr L total compensation of £1,200 which 
she thought was fair in all the circumstances and in line with this services approach to 
compensation payments. So she didnt recommend that Prudential pay Mr L any more 
compensation. 
With regard to Mr Ls complaint about the lost investment opportunity as a result of the delay 
in processing his pension selection, and the financial loss Mr L ended up incurring by buying 
the same amount of shares at a higher price, our investigator didnt think Prudential had 
treated Mr L unfairly or unreasonably. She thought Prudentials backdating of Mr Ls annuity 
and tax-free cash to December 2019 when his fund was worth more and adding interest for 
the delays was in line with this services guidelines. And she thought its offer to consider 
Mr Ls loss if he had sold the shares again was also fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld.
Mr L disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he remained unhappy that two 
different complaints managers had said they would calculate his financial losses but neither 
had done so. Mr L thought Prudential should honour those offers. He also said that our 
investigator hadnt taken the impact his dealings with Prudential had had on his health into 
account. Our investigator replied to say that she had and that she thought the compensation 
offered by Prudential overall was fair. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know my decision will cause Mr L, I dont think his 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Poor customer service and delaysIve set out the sequence of events in some detail above, so I hope that Mr L is reassured 
that Ive considered all aspects of his complaint and have understood, in full, what 
happened. I can see, and appreciate, that he experienced a significant degree of frustration 
and inconvenience by the overall handling of his pension set-up.   
But its not in dispute that Mr L received poor customer service from Prudential. Prudential 
has admitted the service Mr L has received between September 2019 and January 2021 
(the date of its last final response letter) was unsatisfactory. I can see it has apologised to 
Mr L and I can see that it has paid him compensation totalling £1,200 for the trouble and 
upset the shortcomings in its customer service has caused him. 
Its my role to decide, taking all the circumstances into account, whether Prudential has 
treated Mr L fairly and reasonably in how it has addressed this aspect of his complaint and I 
have to say that I think it has. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk without 
any compensation having been paid, I have to say that is unlikely that Id have awarded any 
more than £1,200. Ive thought too here about this services approach to compensation 
awards and I think that the amount paid by Prudential to Mr L is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and is in line with this services approach to such awards in general; Im not 
minded to award any more. 
I would like to reassure Mr L that in considering £1,200 to be a fair and reasonable amount 
to pay him for the trouble and upset he was caused, I have taken into account his comments 
about his health conditions and how they were affected by the stress caused by the delay in 
getting his pension processed and by Prudentials consideration of his financial loss claim. 
It also isnt in dispute that Prudential delayed the processing of Mr Ls pension. As it says 
itself, if things had gone according to plan then Mr Ls annuity shouldve been set up and his 
tax-free cash paid by 8 October 2019. As it was, it wasnt until the 30 March 2020 that this 
was completed. 
I have to look at what Prudential did about the delay it caused and decide if it responded 
fairly and reasonably  I think it did and Ill explain why. When Prudential issued its final 
response letter in May 2020 which responded, amongst other things, to Mr Ls complaint 
about the delays hed experienced in the processing of his pension, Prudential stated that if 
Mr Ls pension had been processed in a timely way then his pension fund would have been 
smaller on 8 October 2019. 
Prudential looked at the fund and noted that Mr Ls fund was worth more on the 4 December 
2019 so, it said, it would use this as date the start date for his annual annuity and the 
payment of his tax-free cash. I think thats fair. This meant that Mr L received tax-free cash 
of £24,060.84 as opposed to £23,772.42 on 8 October 2019. Mr Ls annual annuity 
payments were also higher - £8,402.88 (gross per annum) against £8,221.56 per annum in 
October 2019. I think that Prudential treated Mr L fairly and reasonably by identifying the 
date at which his fund was worth the most and using that figure when processing his 
pension. 
And I think Prudential also treated Mr L fairly by paying him interest on his tax-free cash from 
4 December 2019 to the date it processed the payment, namely 30 March 2020. I can see 
the interest paid totalled £497.51 (net of income tax) and was calculated using this services 
usual rate of 8% simple per annum. And I can see this interest payment also included 
interest on the interest (from 30 March 2020 to the date of the first final response letter 
namely 14 May 2020). A further amount of £2.74 in interest was also paid on the premiums 
Prudential continued to collect (in error). So whilst I fully accept that Mr L was financially disadvantaged by Prudentials failure to 
process his pension request in a timely manner, and by continuing to collect premiums from 
him when it shouldnt have, I think that the interest it has paid Mr L fairly and reasonably 
compensates him for those failings. 
I also considered whether Prudential shouldve backdated the interest it paid Mr L to October 
2019 but I dont think it should have. I say this because, to do so wouldve meant that the 
value of Mr Ls fund wouldve been lower at that point. And, as Ive set out above, the tax-
free cash figure used to calculate the interest would also have been lower. So I dont think 
Mr L has been treated unfairly by Prudential not backdating his interest to October 2019.
Lost investment opportunity
Mr L has said that if Prudential had paid him his tax-free cash when it should then he 
wouldve used it all to buy a particular share when it was at its lowest price in mid-March 
2020. He said the fact he was unable to avail himself of this opportunity has caused him to 
suffer a financial loss because when he did purchase them in July 2020, the same number of 
shares cost him over £9,000 more to buy. 
As Ive stated above, Prudential has said that if Mr Ls pension had been processed on time 
hed have been paid his tax-free cash in October 2019. Because of the type of loss Mr L is 
asking Prudential to compensate him for, I need to consider what is likely to have happened 
if Mr L had received the tax-free cash payment on time. I can see that Mr L did in fact 
purchase a small share-holding of the same share in October 2019. But I can also see that 
the share price at that time for that share was 2228.01 pence. Mr L has said that if hed 
received his tax-free cash at the start of March 2020 then hed have purchased the shares at 
a price of 889.70 pence per share. 
It can be easy, with the benefit of hindsight to say certain decisions wouldve been taken at 
certain times but it is very hard to conclude that it was possible to predict that the share price 
wouldve dropped so significantly because of the global pandemic. And I cant see that Mr L 
informed Prudential at any point that he needed to receive his tax-free cash as soon as 
possible because an investment opportunity depended on it. The first I can see that the 
investment in the shares was mentioned to Prudential was in late April/early May when it 
contacted Mr L by phone to discuss his complaint. So I dont think Prudential was on notice 
that Mr L wanted to make the investment or that it had the opportunity to take any steps to 
address the urgency of the issue. 
And I cant ignore that Mr L didnt purchase the shares in April 2020 (having received his tax-
free cash) when the share price was between 1348 and 1492 pence per share  still 
significantly lower than in October 2019 when Mr L had been happy to purchase a small 
shareholding for a much higher price. 
I dont think I can reasonably uphold this aspect of Mr Ls complaint because Ive not seen 
any evidence that he definitely wouldve purchased the additional shares on the one day in 
March 2020 when they hit their lowest point. Mr Ls investment pattern suggests that he was 
investing in shares (at a much higher price) in October 2019. So whilst I dont doubt he may 
have purchased additional shares had his tax-free cash been made available to him sooner 
Ive not seen any evidence that he wouldve waited to the middle of March 2020 to do so. 
The other investments Mr L has made dont support this strategy of investment. 
So, had Prudential not caused any delays then Mr L wouldve received his tax-free cash in 
October 2019 and I think its reasonable to say  based on his previous actions  that this is 
the point that Mr L is most likely to have invested in the shares. Whilst the small quantity of 
the same shares purchased in October 2019 indicates that Mr L may not have invested all his tax-free cash at the time if hed had it, the fact remains that the share price in April 2020 
was much lower than it was in October 2019 (when Mr L was with funds) so I cant 
reasonably conclude that he was disadvantaged by the delay. 
Separately, Mr L says he was encouraged by Prudential to buy the shares (in July 2020) so 
he could evidence his intent to invest and so it could then calculate the loss hed suffered. I 
can see that he was told by two complaint handlers that they would undertake this 
calculation. Mr L thinks Prudential should be made to honour its promise to calculate his loss 
using the shares he bought in July 2020.
Partially, this aspect of Mr Ls complaint goes to the poor customer service element of his 
complaint that Ive already considered above. I can see that part of the overall compensation 
payment made by Prudential was for the lack of strategy, clarity and inconsistency on the 
part of its numerous complaint handlers when asking Mr L to evidence his share buying. I 
can appreciate why Mr L wants Prudential to be made to honour the reassurances it gave 
him that it would calculate his financial loss. But Prudential has changed its mind about how 
it wants to address this part of Mr Ls complaint and I have to decide if what it has now said  
that it has financially compensated Mr L for the mixed messages he received  along with its 
offer to subsequently address any loss if Mr L sold his shareholding  is fair and reasonable.
 
I am satisfied that the overall compensation Mr L has received from Prudential has fairly 
addressed this aspect of his complaint. And insofar as Mr Ls complaint about being 
encouraged by Prudential to belatedly purchase the shares in July 2020 goes, I think the 
alternative steps (by which I mean alternative to the previous reassurance that it would 
undertake a loss calculation) taken by Prudential to address the issue are reasonable in the 
circumstances. It told Mr L in January 2021 that if he felt he wouldnt have bought those 
shares then he could sell them as soon as possible to mitigate his loss. Prudential said that it 
would then consider any evidenced loss Mr L made in order to put him back in the position 
he wouldve been in had he not made the purchase in July 2020; I think this was a fair and 
reasonable way to address this aspect of Mr Ls complaint. Mr L told our investigator in May 
2021 that he still had his shares and, looking at the share price, it has continued to stay 
above the price Mr L paid in 2020. It follows that I consider the offer Prudential made in this 
regard to now be redundant.  
Poor complaint handling
Mr L has also complained about the way that Prudential has handled his complaints; 
specifically about the number of complaint handlers he had and their failure to do what they 
promised. Not all complaints this service receives are ones we can consider. Only those that 
fall within our rules can be looked at. Unfortunately, as complaint handling isnt an activity 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, it isnt something we are able to consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman