DRN-3254737
The complaint
W complains about information that was given when arranging a Credit Relief Plan with 
American Express Services Europe Limited trading as American Express (AMEX).
  
What happened
 In March 2020 W contacted Amex to enquire about a Credit Relief Plan on its charge card. 
Amex agreed to the plan and put a two-month payment break in place. But when W 
attempted to make several payments on its card, it found the limit had been reduced. W said 
that due to the reduced limit, it had to take a government loan to keep up payments from the 
business. W said that had it known the limit would be reduced, it wouldnt have agreed to the 
Relief Plan. W says it will now be paying off the government loan for many years, so, W 
logged a complaint with Amex. 
Amex looked into the complaint and upheld it. Amex found W shouldve been told on the call 
with its advisor that the credit limit would be reduced. It offered W £30 compensation for the 
inconvenience the incorrect information had caused. W didnt think this was enough, so it 
brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Amexs offer was fair. Our 
investigator said that had W been given the correct information on the call with AMEXs 
advisor, he found it most likely W wouldve still taken the two-month payment break. 
W didnt agree with the investigators views, so the complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that on the call with the Amex advisor on 23 March 2020, W wasnt given all the 
information relating to the Credit Relief Plan it shouldve been. Both parties agree to this 
point, so its not something I need to investigate again. What I need to decide is whether the 
compensation offered by AMEX for its error is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
When W applied for the payment break, it said it was doing so in case the business started 
to be impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. At the point the break was approved, W has 
evidenced it couldve paid off the balance of the card. So, when the limit decreased, W did 
have funds available for it to use. This is significant because W had two payments declined 
around the same sort of time. So, although it must have been frustrating to find the 
payments declined, other than the frustration I dont find W has suffered any loss  as the 
payments were made with funds that were available. 
Ws main complaint is that it had to take out a £50,000 bounce back loan from the 
government to cover the impact the decrease in card limit had. W says it will now have to 
pay this off over many years due to AMEXs error. 
Ive thought about this point very carefully and Ive also considered the additional information 
W provided after the investigators view, but I dont find it changes my decision.
 
If the AMEX advisor had given W all the correct information, I also find it most likely it still 
wouldve agreed to the Credit Relief Plan. I say this as by taking the government loan shortly 
after, it was clear that W did suffer financial difficulties and more likely than not, wouldnt 
have been able to pay back any money subsequently spent on the AMEX card. Im also 
satisfied that if W took the loan but didnt need it, the money wouldve still been available to 
pay the loan back at a much earlier date.  
Ive also found that If W had been left on the higher limit, its likely it wouldve spent around 
£50,000 on the card over the two months, based on previous spending. This is around the 
same amount the loan provided. So, if W couldnt pay off the loan amount in the two months 
it used the funds, I find it unlikely it wouldve been able to do the same with the card 
payments. 
By W taking the bounce back loan, it has also been put in a better position than it wouldve 
been, had it just maintained the AMEX card payments on the higher limit and without the 
break. The terms of the charge card mean it needs to be settled to a nil balance every 
month. The bounce back loan gave W 12 months to repay the amount with no interest 
added.
W said its spending habits changed because of the two-month break, which it said made it 
more comfortable with its spending. I can understand the point W is making here, but dont 
find this is any fault of AMEXs or something it couldve foreseen happening. W decided to 
use the bounce back loan knowing the terms, and that it would need to be paid back over 
the 12 months. 
Based on the above Im satisfied AMEX did make an error on the telephone call in March 
2020, but the £30 offered fairly compensates W for the inconvenience of the declined 
payments and having to use an alternative method to pay. 
Putting things right
If they havent done so already, Amex must pay W a £30 trouble and upset payment.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct American Express Services 
Europe Limited trading as American Express to pay W £30 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman