DRN-3013707
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that TM Advances Limited (TMA) didnt do enough to check that he could 
afford to repay a number of loans that it granted to him. 
Mr L is represented, but for ease I will refer only to him throughout. 
What happened
Mr L has applied for and been granted four personal loans with TMA since October 2017, as 
follows:
Loan 
numberDate Amount 
borrowedTerm APR Monthly 
repayment 
1 October 2017 £1,500.00 24 months 232.7% £173.75
2 January 2018 £1,500.00 36 months 208.7% £152.92
3 March 2018 £3,000.00 24 months 166.9% £297.50
4 June 2018 £3,000.00 40 months 149.1% £249.00
Loans one and two were settled before any monthly repayments had been made. Loan three 
was settled in full after two monthly repayments had been made. Loan four was settled in full 
in April 2019.
In December 2019, Mr L complained that TMA hadnt done enough to check that he could 
afford to repay the loans before granting them to him. And that had it carried out appropriate 
checks, it wouldve realised that he couldnt afford to make the repayments. 
TMA didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had conducted credit searches and verified  
Mr Ls income before agreeing to lend. And that in each case, it found Mr L to have a very 
good disposable income and there was no suggestion of any financial difficulty. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to this Service.
An investigator here looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, 
that:
- Under the relevant regulations, TMA was obliged to lend responsibly. It had to 
reasonably assess whether Mr L could afford to meet the repayments in a 
sustainable way over the term. The assessment of Mr Ls circumstances needed to 
be borrower focused.
- At the point of each loan application, there were signs that Mr L had recently 
experienced problems managing his money. He was heavily reliant on short-term 
lending. The loans were being settled quickly, but most likely due to additional short-
term borrowing being taken. 
- Given what we know about the nature of short-term borrowing and the reasons why 
customers take such loans, there were clear signs from the checks TMA completed 
that repaying any new or additional borrowing might be unsustainable. 
- By the time the fourth loan was taken out, Mr L was also in early arrears and in 
arrangements to pay on some of the existing debt he had. 
- TMA ought to have realised from the checks it carried out, that by granting the loans 
to Mr L, it was increasing his indebtedness in a way which was detrimental to him. 
- Because of this, TMA should refund all of the interest and charges applied and 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges.
TMA disagreed and asked for the case to be escalated to an ombudsman. It said that it 
didnt feel it had lent in an irresponsible manner. And that where a customer is stuck in a 
cycle of payday lending, the loans it provides gives customers like Mr L a chance to repay 
those loans and have a much more sustainable monthly payment. 
I asked Mr L for some further information. I asked why he had cancelled loans one and two 
shortly after taking them out and before making any loan repayments. I also asked how he 
had been able to fully clear loans three and four early.  
Mr L said that for loans one and two, he had been able to borrow money from his parents 
instead and that his parents helped him to repay the final loan. In respect of loan three, he 
said that this may also have been as a result of help from his parents, or possibly by using 
all of his monthly pay or from a gambling win. Or a combination of these things. 
I also asked Mr L to clarify why he had been taking out the payday loans in the lead up to 
applying for loans with TMA and how he had been able to repay them as he went along.  
Mr L said that whenever he borrowed money, this was to pay off existing debts. He also told 
me that he ended up with a gambling problem, which he is still receiving treatment for. 
I also asked TMA to clarify how each loan had been taken out. It said all loans were taken 
out via telephone but that it didnt have any of the call recordings available. 
Based on this and everything else Id seen on the file, I sent both parties some provisional 
thoughts. I said, in summary, that:
- I agreed with the investigators findings in relation to loans three and four. This was 
based on the extent of Mr Ls borrowing at the points of application, evidenced by 
credit information that TMA had obtained as part of the checks it carried out and its 
own application records. 
- The information showed that in the time between applying for loans two and three,  
Mr L had opened five new loans with other credit providers and at least one of those 
loans had an outstanding balance. Mr L had also accrued a £1,000 overdraft and had 
recently taken out two new credit cards, with balances close to the limits. - I thought that TMA ought to have known that Mr L would likely struggle to repay loan 
three in a sustainable manner. And that by agreeing to lend, there was a real risk it 
would be increasing his indebtedness in an unhelpful way.
- Regarding loan four, Mr Ls situation was similar but the information TMA had also 
showed that Mr L was by this point in arrears on at least one item of outstanding 
credit.
- However, in relation to loans one and two, I wasnt convinced that TMA shouldnt 
have lent based on what it knew at the time, including the checks it had carried out. 
Rather, I thought the extent of the payday lending that TMA was aware of, ought to 
have prompted it to carry out further checks to better understand Mr Ls situation and 
satisfy itself that Mr L would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
- For loan one, I noted that TMA had calculated Mr Ls disposable income to be £1,050 
per month, yet he was looking to borrow only slightly more - £1,500, over a two year 
period. This too ought to have prompted TMA to verify Mr Ls income and 
expenditure, beyond that which it did. The situation was similar for loan two.
- I said that in terms of getting a better understanding of Mr Ls financial situation, in 
particular in relation to his income and outgoings, TMA couldve done this in a 
number of ways. In the investigation of complaints like these, this service usually 
asks to review relevant bank statements.
- I had seen a number of Mr Ls bank statements in the lead up to both loans one and 
two. In the absence of anything else from TMA showing what this information would 
have shown, I thought it fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ls financial circumstances were likely to 
have been.
- Having looked at the bank statements in the lead up to loan 1 (July to September 
2017), I found evidence of significant expenditure on gambling. In the three-month 
period, Mr Ls gambling transactions totalled in excess of £36,000. There were 
gambling receipts (presumably winnings) of a little over £33,500 in the same time 
period.
- I had also seen that in the same time period, Mr L borrowed a total of over £33,000 
in Payday Loans or similar, repaying a total of just under £24,000. The statements 
also appeared to show Mr L borrowing significant amounts of money from family.
- I considered that if TMA had known about this at the time, it would not reasonably 
have lent to Mr L  in that it both would have been irresponsible and 
unaffordable/unsustainable. 
- As such, I invited TMA to settle the case in line with the investigators 
recommendations. 
- Given that all of the loans appeared to be settled, this meant a refund of all interest 
and charges on each of the loans, plus 8% interest simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. And that TMA should remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ls credit file, as a result of the interest and charges. 
- And that if it wasnt prepared to settle the case, it should provide any further 
evidence and comments that it wished me to take into account. Mr L said he was happy to accept what Id said.
TMA said that with the levels of gambling visible on the bank statements, it wouldnt have 
lent to Mr L. However, it didnt confirm that it was prepared to settle the case in line with what 
Id set out. 
So, its been necessary to go on to issue final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this case. Ill explain why. 
For all four loans, the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) regulations apply. The following 
CONC regulations are particularly relevant in this case:
5.2.1R 
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake an assessment of 
the creditworthiness of the customer.
(2) A firm carrying out the assessment required in (1) must consider:
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement.
5.2.3G
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment. in a given case, should be 
dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) The type of credit;
(2) The amount of the credit
(3) The cost of the credit;
(4) The financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) The customers credit history, including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties
(6) The customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water 
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) Any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) Any future changes in circumstances which could reasonably be expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;.
5.2.4G
(2) A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, 
for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the 
customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.(3) A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use in its creditworthiness 
assessment. which may, depending on the circumstances, include some or all of the 
following:
(a) Its record of previous dealings
(b) Evidence of income
(c) Evidence of expenditure
(d) A credit score
(e) A credit reference agency report
(f) Information provided by the customer
5.3.1G
(2) The creditworthiness assessment.should include the firm taking reasonable steps to 
assess the customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a 
sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences. 
(6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
a) Without undue difficulty, in particular
(i) The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and 
(ii) Without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
 
So, in essence, TMA needed to check Mr Ls creditworthiness (focused on affordability) and 
the checks it carried out needed to be proportionate given the relevant factors. It also 
needed to take account of what it already knew about Mr L, when making its lending 
decisions. 
I said in my provisional findings that I didnt think the checks TMA had carried out for loans 
one and two were proportionate. Given the nature of the borrowing, Mr Ls credit history (in 
particular the extent of short term borrowing in the lead up to the loans) and the incongruous 
disposable income TMA accepted/calculated, a proportionate check wouldve involved some 
reasonably detailed verification of his income and expenditure  to be satisfied that Mr L 
could sustainably make the loan repayments. There is no evidence that TMA did this.
As I set out in my provisional findings, in terms of getting a better understanding of Mr Ls 
financial situation, in particular in relation to his income and outgoings, TMA couldve done 
this in a number of ways. As TMA didnt take these steps, I cant know what the checks 
wouldve revealed.  However, Ive seen a number of Mr Ls bank statements in the lead up to 
the loan applications. 
In the absence of anything else from TMA showing what  proportionate checks would have 
shown, I still think its fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on this 
as an indication of what Mr Ls financial circumstances were likely to have been. And what 
TMA wouldve likely uncovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
As set out in my provisional findings, Mr Ls bank statements show considerable gambling 
transactions, with a significant deficit over time. The statements also indicate a much higher 
level of short term borrowing (again, with a substantial deficit in terms of money borrowed 
compared to repaid) than the credit information TMA was aware of and also that Mr L was 
relying heavily on money from family. Had TMA been aware of this, I dont think it would reasonably have agreed to give Mr L 
either of loans one or two. 
In respect of loans three and four, as set out in my provisional findings, I think TMA 
shouldve realised based on what it already knew, that Mr L would be unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay either of the loans. The information it had indicated that between applying 
for loans two and three, Mr L had opened five new loans with other credit providers and at 
least one of those loans had an outstanding balance. And that Mr L had also accrued a 
£1,000 overdraft and recently taken out two new credit cards, with balances close to the 
limits. 
I think knowing this, TMA ought to have realised that Mr L would be unlikely to be able to 
sustainably meet the repayments for loan three. And that by providing him with the loan, 
there was a real risk that it was increasing his indebtedness in an unhelpful way. 
Regarding loan four, Mr Ls situation was similar to loan three, except that by this point he 
was in arrears with at least one of his existing credit commitments. As such, I find that TMA 
ought to have realised that Mr L would be unlikely to be able to sustainably meet the 
repayments for this loan, too. 
Ive thought about what TMA has said about the merits of its lending to Mr L, compared to 
him being stuck in a cycle of short-term lending. But Im not persuaded by what its said. 
Ultimately, before agreeing to lend, it needed to ensure that Mr L could sustainably meet the 
loan repayments. And I dont think it did this. 
So, I think that TMA has done something wrong and that it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr L in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loans in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr L 
was given the loans and he had use of the money. And, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr L back in the position he would be in 
if he hadnt been given the loans in the first place. However, I dont think it appropriate for 
TMA to benefit from unfair lending decisions.
Bearing this in mind, TMA needs to refund all of the interest and charges on each of the 
loans and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
It also needs to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file as a result of 
the interest and charges. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint about TM Advances Limited. I direct TM Advances Limited to do what Ive said above under putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman