DRN-3748857
The complaint
Ms B complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proper affordability checks before it advanced her loans. Had it carried out proper checks it
wouldve discovered Ms B couldnt afford her loans.
What happened
Ms B took six loans between June 2015 and April 2018. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 23/06/2015 12/02/2016 34 £15.00
2 £400.00 01/12/2015 22/07/2016 33 £20.00
3 £400.00 22/07/2016 24/02/2017 33 £20.00
4 £400.00 24/02/2017 08/09/2017 33 £20.00
5 £400.00 08/09/2017 20/04/2018 33 £20.00
6 £400.00 20/04/2018 10/12/2018 33 £20.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running at the
same time Ms Bs weekly commitment was £35.
Morses considered Ms Bs complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses concluded
it had made a reasonable decision to provide these loans and so it didnt uphold her
complaint.
Ms Bs representatives didnt agree and her representative referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to lend
had been made for loan 1. But in the adjudicators view, loans 2 (and all future loans) 
shouldnt have been granted as Ms B was committed to using a significant portion of her 
income in order to meet the repayments for the loans. The adjudicator also thought by and 
from loan 4, the loans were now harmful for Ms B.
Ms Bs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment.
Morses partly agreed with the adjudicators recommendation and Ive summarised its
response below;
Although the loans were taken in a consecutive manner Ms B couldve closed the
lending relationship at any point.
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties Ms B was having.
Morses doesnt consider six loans in just under 3 years to be excessive.
It accepts loan 2 shouldnt have been provided.
Ms B had sufficient amount of disposable income to be able to afford the payments
she was committed to making.
The checks for loans 3  6 were proportionate.
However, Morses did accept that loan 2 shouldnt have been granted and it offered
compensation in line with the adjudicators recommendation  this led to a refund of £368.56
due to be paid to Ms B.
Ms Bs representative confirmed receipt of the offer, but Ms B didnt accept it because she
thought the outcome reached by the adjudicator was fair.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partially uphold Ms Bs 
complaint about loans 2 and 6 only. A copy of my provisional findings follows this in italics 
and a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms B. These factors include:
Ms B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms B.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms B was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Bs complaint.Ms B appears to have agreed with the outcome that the adjudicator reached and Morses
hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 and 2. Therefore, these
loans are no longer in dispute so I know longer think I have to make a finding about them.
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship, and
Ive included what Morses needs to do in to put things right for loan 2, and what it has
already agreed to do in the redress section at the end of this decision.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses was right (or wrong) to have advanced
loans 3 - 6.
Loan 3
The adjudicator upheld this loan, because in his view the repayment for loan was too high a
portion of Ms Bs income, and therefore loan 2 and future loans should be upheld. In effect,
the adjudicator has concluded, that because of loan 2 being unsustainable then the rest of
the lending was as well.
Morses has accepted that loan 2 shouldnt have been advanced, so as I said above, I dont
need to make a finding about that loan. However, looking at the circumstances of this loan, I
dont think that Morses wouldve likely concluded that the lending was unsustainable.
Loan 3, was taken on the same day as loan 2, being repaid, but this was the first time a loan
had started in consecutive manner. Loans 1 and 2 appear to have been repaid without
undue difficulty and the information Ms B gave for her outgoings was broadly similar for loan
3 as they were for loan 2.
When loan 3 was advanced there was no other outstanding loans with Morses which
reduced her weekly commitment to £20 per week  which could potentially have been
helpful in terms of affordability.
The difference between loans 2 and 3 is the significant increase in Ms Bs declared income.
For loan 2 she declared this to be £150 per week, whereas for loan 3 her weekly income
(still recorded as being from benefits) had increased to £285.
As a result, of this increase in her declared income, I cant fairly conclude that Morses
wouldve automatically thought this loan was unsustainable for Ms B given that there
appears to have been a change in her circumstances.
However, that doesnt mean that Morses did all it ought to have done. Given, the value of
this loan, the fact that Ms B was committed to being indebted for another 33 weeks and that
her income had increased significantly while being in receipt of benefits ought to have
prompted Morses to have checked and to have made further inquiries into Ms Bs
circumstances around her finances to confirm the increase in income.
So, while, I dont think Morses ought to have autonomically declined this loan - I dont think it
did all it ought to have done before approving it. Morses, in my view, needed to have taken
some steps to check Ms Bs finances. It couldve done this a number of ways such as asking
evidence of her income and outgoings through say benefit statements or bills, a copy of her
credit file or her bank statement.
However, for me to be able to uphold this loan I have to be satisfied that Morses wouldve
likely discovered  with further checks that this loan wasnt affordable.
Neither Ms B or her representative has provided copies of her bank statements or credit file
from the time or anything else to show what her living costs were at the time. Without this, I
cant fairly say that Morses, by carrying out further checks it wouldve concluded it shouldnt
have provided this loan.
Therefore, Im intending to not uphold Ms Bs complaint about this loan.Loans 4 and 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan because he concluded that by now this loan was harmful for
Ms B and so it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded that these loans were now so harmful to Ms B for the reasons Ive outlined below.
I accept, that Ms B had been indebted with Morses for 20 months, which in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least was
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
consecutive, which could be a sign that Ms B had a continued need for credit  without a
break. But I also must keep in mind the loan repayments were fairly modest at £20 per week,
and there were no other overlapping loans at this time.
There also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems  up to this point all the loans had
been repaid at least a week early. So, I dont think I can fairly uphold these loans solely
because in effect Ms B had been indebted to Morses for around two years.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised that
these loans were unsustainable for Ms B. But that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve
done before advancing this loan.
For loans 4 and 5 Morses believed Ms B had a disposable weekly amount of at least £225 to
meet her loan repayment of £20 per week. This may have then led Morses to believe that
Ms B had sufficient disposable income and could afford the loan repayment.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think, by this stage
in the lending relationship, considering the time in debt and the fact that Ms Bs lending
hadnt decreased since she started borrowing and the large decrease in her declared
expenditure for loan 5 ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about
Ms Bs financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms B declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms B could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Bs actual financial position to
ensure these loans were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements. This mightve helped
verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other information Morses
mightve needed to consider about Ms Bs general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Ms B couldnt afford the loan.
Ms Bs representative hasnt been able to provide copies of her bank statements (which
may have shown us and Morses what other commitments Ms B had and / or her living
costs) or any other information that may have shown what Ms Bs financial position was at
the time.
So, without any further information from Ms B about her living costs and her wider financial
position, its difficult for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better
checks.
Looking at everything together, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest Morses
shouldnt have lent loans 4 and 5. Even considering what Ms B declared to Morses for her
income and expenditure. Im therefore minded to believe it was reasonable for Morses tohave provided these loans.
As this is the case, on current evidence, Im intending to not uphold Ms Bs complaint about
these loans.
Loan 6
For this loan, Morses has shown that it asked Ms B for details of her income and
expenditure. She declared an income £362 with outgoings of £108 per week. This left
Ms B with a weekly disposable income of £254 per week to meet her largest repayment of
£20.
Based solely on Ms Bs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making.
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms B had been
indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew about 
Ms Bs finances. For example, according to Morses, it still knew that Ms Bs sole source of
income was benefits and Ms Bs main expenditure was groceries, and £15 for utilities.
I dont think given the vast fluctuations that there had been within Ms Bs expenditure figures
during the lifetime of the loan agreements that these could really be plausible. By now, it
wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have verified the
information it was being given.
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for her I say this because I
now think it had reached the point where the loans were unsustainable for her.
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern
of Morses lending history with Ms B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further
loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan
6. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms B was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. This was now Ms Bs sixth loan within 34 months. So, Morses
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms B was having to borrow further
to cover a long-term short fall in her living costs.
Ms B was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous loan was repaid. By
loan 6, it was the fourth time that this had happened and the loans were all for the
same value. To me, this is a sign that Ms B was using these loans to fill a long-term
gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Bs weekly commitments stayed
roughly the same  reaching weekly commitments of £20 per week. But it is worth
saying here that neither did Ms Bs weekly commitment show signs of decreasing or
her indebtedness reducing. Each loan to date had been due to be repaid over at
least 33 weeks, which I think shows that she was, more likely than not, having longer
term problems with a consistent need for credit.
Ms B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was
taken out 34 months after Ms Bs first loan. Her final loan was for more than her first.
She was also committing to spending at least another 33 weeks indebted to Morses.
Ms B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over
an extended period.
I think that Ms B lost out when Morses provided loan 6 because:this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her to
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im planning to uphold Ms Bs complaint about loans 2 and 6 only.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Ms B and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible but no later than 13 October 2022. 
Morses responded, agreeing with the proposed outcome in the provisional decision. 
Ms Bs representative also confirmed she was accepting the findings in the provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Morses and Ms B have accepted the findings in the provisional decision I see no 
reason to depart from those. So, I still dont think Morses ought to have approved loan 2 or 6 
for Ms B and Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right. 
Ms Bs representative has asked for a breakdown of the refund, and I dont consider this to 
be an unreasonable request, so Morses should also provide this if the final decision is 
accepted. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not given Ms B loans 2 and 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses shouldnt have given Ms B loans 2 and 6.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms B the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information Morses has recorded on Ms Bs 
credit file in relation to loan 2. The overall pattern of Ms Bs borrowing for loan 6 
means any information recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the 
loan entirely from Ms Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Bs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman