DRN-2644588
The complaint
Mr A complains that Home retail Group Card Services Limited applied a late payment fee to 
his Argos card account. Hes also unhappy that the missed payment will show on his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr A held a credit account with Argos. In or around March 2020 he purchased an item. In 
April 2020 Mr A received a letter from Argos advising him that hed failed to make the 
minimum payment and that because of this, a £12 late payment fee had been charged.
Mr A contacted Argos to complain. He said he hadnt received a statement. In response, 
Argos said a statement had been issued to Mr A on 5 March 2020 advising that he had a 
minimum payment of £5 due by 3 April 2020. It advised Mr A that because his payment 
wasnt received, a £12.00 late fee was applied to the account on 5 April 2020. Argos advised 
Mr A that he had registered for electronic statements and was required to access his online 
account to view the monthly statements.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Argos had provided information 
showing that Mr A had opted for electronic statements to be sent to him by email, and that a 
statement had been sent to him on 5 March 2020 showing the due date for payment. The 
investigator said the £12 late payment fee had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and that Argos had a duty to report this to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed never received a statement by email. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the screenshot provided by Argos. This shows that in October 2018 Mr A 
opted for electronic statements to be sent to him by email. Argos has said that it sent an 
electronic statement to Mr A by email on 5 March 2020. It has also said that it didnt receive 
an error message advising that the email wasnt delivered.
This service has checked with Argos and has confirmed that the email details it holds for Mr 
A are the same email details provided to this service.
I appreciate that Mr A says he didnt receive an electronic statement by email. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Argos issued the electronic statement to Mr A at the 
correct email address. I think its more likely than not that it was received. 
Because Im satisfied that Argos issued the electronic statement to Mr A, Im of the view that 
it was Mr As responsibility to make sure that his payment was made on time. I can see that 
it wasnt made on time, so I dont think Argos has done anything wrong by sending an 
arrears letter.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. These say that a £12 fee will be 
charged if a payment isnt made on time. In this case, because Mr A was late with his 
payment, Im satisfied the fee was correctly charged in line with the terms and conditions.
I appreciate that Mr A is concerned about the impact of this on his credit file. All lenders are 
obliged to report information (including late payment) to the credit reference agencies. 
Because Mr A was late with his payment, Im unable to say that Argos made an error when it 
reported the information.
For the reasons Ive explained Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman