DRN-2818074
The complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card then increased the credit limit a few months later. 
  
What happened
In September 2018 Mr T applied for a credit card with Marbles. The application said Mr T 
lived with his parents and didnt give details of a job. Mr T gave an income of £5,220. 
Marbles looked at Mr Ts credit file and found he had around £4,800 of unsecured credit 
outstanding at the time of his application but didnt find any adverse information reported. 
Marbles says the application was approved in line with its lending policy and Mr T was given 
a credit card with a £900 credit limit. 
By October 2018 Mr T owed Marbles around £835. In January 2019 Marbles increased the 
credit limit to £1,650. At that point, the data Marbles had available shows he owed over 
£6,000 on other unsecured credit. My March 2019 Mr Ts balance was close to the £1,650 
credit limit. 
In April 2019 Mr T told Marbles he was experiencing financial difficulties and it went on to 
agree a range of payment arrangements, including waiving interest. 
Mr T went on to complain that Marbles had lent irresponsibly, but it didnt agree. Mr T 
referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld Mr 
Ts complaint and asked Marbles to refund all interest and charges applied to his credit card 
and remove adverse information from his credit file. Marbles didnt agree and said it had 
completed the necessary checks when it approved Mr Ts application and increased his 
credit limit. As Marbles asked to appeal, Mr Ts case has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business considers whether to approve an application for credit it should complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower can make repayments 
in an affordable and sustainable way. Lenders should consider factors like the type of credit, 
the amount and borrowing limit as well as frequency of payments and overall term.  In cases 
where an applicant has a lower income or other unsecured borrowing that appears high for 
their circumstances lenders should consider whether to complete additional checks to 
ensure repayments are affordable in the long term. 
Ive looked at the information Mr T provided in his application and I think there were signs at 
that point that the credit card wasnt affordable. Mr T gave a reasonably low income of 
£5,220 and didnt tell Marbles he was working. In addition, the application confirmed Mr T 
owed around £4,800 to other lenders at the time, a figure that was broadly in line with his 
annual income. Whilst I take Marbles point that it cant decline an application solely on the 
basis that the consumer is in receipt of benefits, I dont agree it completed proportionate 
checks in this case. I think the fact that Mr T wasnt working and already owed other lenders 
a substantial amount, when taking his annual income into account, shouldve caused it to 
complete a more comprehensive set of checks. 
Had Marbles carried out more comprehensive checks, I dont think it wouldve approved Mr 
Ts credit card. Mr T has sent us some bank statements for the months preceding his 
application. I can see transfers in and out which appear to broadly cancel each other out. But 
the only regular income I found were weekly benefits payments of around £65. In addition, I 
can see Mr T made payments of around £255 to his other unsecured creditors. From the 
information Ive seen, it doesnt appear Mr T was in a position to meet the monthly payments 
for a new credit card when he applied to Marbles. As a result, I agree with the investigator 
that Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ts initial application. 
The only change in situation I can see in Mr Ts overall position between the initial 
application and credit limit increase a few months later is that he had used almost all the 
£900 limit of his Marbles credit card and increased his other unsecured borrowing further to 
around £6,000. In my view the substantial increase in Mr Ts outstanding borrowing 
shouldve been a further indication that he was in an unsustainable position and caused 
Marbles to carry out more checks. For broadly the same reasons as Ive given above, I think 
Marbles wouldve decided not to increase Mr Ts credit limit if it had carried out more detailed 
checks. 
As I think Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ts credit card and went on to 
increase the credit limit, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles to 
settle as follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges to Mr Ts credit card balance and ensure its 
administered on an interest free basis until the outstanding balance is repaid
- Remove any adverse information reported on Mr Ts credit file 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman