DRN-3015483
The complaint
Mr H complained that Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) made a fraud allegation against him 
following claims for two separate leaks at his home, but it didnt formally decline his second 
claim.
Mr Hs legal representative brought the complaint, and a Loss Assessor also acted on his 
behalf. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr H throughout my decision and any reference to actions 
include those taken by his representatives.
What happened
Briefly, in June 2018 Mr H claimed under his buildings insurance for an escape of water from 
his bathroom (Claim 1). When Zurichs loss adjuster (LA) inspected the damage, Mr H 
mentioned that there was another leak from his en-suite which he hadnt yet claimed for 
(Claim 2). He asked the agent to take photos of both areas of damage while on site, in 
preparation for making his second claim. 
Mr H made his second claim the following week, and Zurichs LA attended. However, there 
was some doubt about whether all the damage reported was caused by the second leak. 
From here followed a detailed exchange of opinions, expert reports, and information 
requests. 
Mr H complained about Zurichs handling of his claim and its failure to formally decline Claim 
2. He refused to allow further investigation at his home because he thought Zurich had 
carried out enough visits. Zurich then declined Claim 2 because it thought Mr H had 
deliberately concealed and misrepresented information; made false statements, and failed to 
co-operate. But it accepted Claim 1 less Mr Hs excess, and less the cost of its investigation 
into Claim 2. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint because she didnt think that Zurich had fairly 
applied the fraud condition. While she accepted there were discrepancies in the information 
Mr H gave, she thought that was likely due to misunderstandings, with no intention of trying 
to gain more out of the claim than he was entitled to. Our investigator thought Mr H had only 
become uncooperative in response to Zurichs requests for further investigation because it 
applied the fraud condition and cancelled his policy. So, she didnt think it was fair to apply 
the failure to cooperate condition either. Our investigator recommended that Zurich:
 shouldnt apply the fraud condition; 
 shouldnt deduct the investigation cost from Mr Hs first claim; 
 should reinstate the policy, giving him another chance to cooperate with its 
investigation, and
 remove the negative markers from Mr Hs record.
Mr H accepted this outcome and confirmed he would allow a suitably qualified person to 
attend his home to inspect the flooring.
Zurich didnt agree with the outcome or recommendations because it thought it had enough 
evidence to warrant invoking the fraud condition.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
To be clear, it isnt within my remit to decide whether fraud has taken place. Ive looked at 
whether Zurichs decision to decline the claim for the reasons it gave was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with the policy terms. In doing so, Ive relied on 
the same expert evidence as that available to both Mr H and Zurich. While I wont comment 
on every piece of information, and our rules dont require me to, Id like to reassure both 
parties that Ive given it all considerable thought.  Ive focused on what I think the key issues 
are, which Ill explain now.
When making a claim under an insurance policy, each party has a responsibility. Here, Mr 
Hs responsibility was to show that hed suffered an insured loss. Zurichs responsibility was 
to settle the claim unless it could show that an exclusion applied.
Claim 1
Zurich accepted Mr Hs first claim for escape of water from his bathroom. It seems the 
outcome of the claim itself is not in dispute, but Mr H is unhappy that Zurich reduced the 
settlement for Claim 1 so that it could recover its costs for investigating Claim 2. As the 
settlement was only adjusted because Zurich declined the second claim, Ill cover the 
reduction of the Claim 1 settlement as part of my overall decision about Claim 2.
Claim 2
Mr H made this claim for escape of water from a mixer tap in his en-suite shower. He said 
the water was dripping through the floor, ceiling and light fittings, and onto a chair, lamp, and 
wooden floor below. The focus of the claim, but not limited to, was the damaged floor. Zurich 
didnt think the floor wouldve been damaged to the extent it was in the circumstances Mr H 
described.
The complaint Mr H brought to this service was about Zurichs failure to formally decline his 
claim. Since bringing his complaint, Zurich declined his claim and agreed to us considering 
this aspect of the complaint in the spirit of reasonableness. Zurich declined Mr Hs claim for 
breach of Conditions 4 and 2:
Deliberately concealed information from us;
Deliberately misrepresented information to us;
Deliberately made false statements to us;
Failed to co-operate with us.
Further, in line with the fraud condition, Zurich cancelled the policy with effect from the date 
of Claim 2, and said it would take the money it paid out to investigate Claim 2 from the 
settlement amount it agreed to pay Mr H for Claim 1. 
Date of the leak
Looking at the evidence, I can see that Zurich questioned Mr Hs account of events leading 
up to his discovery of the second leak. But I cant see that he provided a reasonable 
explanation for the differing accounts. Mr H reported that he discovered the leak mid-week, 
but also said it was on a Sunday after a weekend away. He said the plumber repaired the 
leak the next day, which the evidence shows was a Monday. Zurich didnt think Mr H 
wouldve been unable to recall the exact day, especially if hed just returned from a short 
break, and I agree. While this in isolation might not amount to fraud, I think its reasonable 
that Zurich wanted to investigate further.
Access and repairZurich spoke to the plumber who said hed broken tiles to access and repair the mixer-tap 
leak. Mr H reported that the ceiling was cut away to gain access, and that the tiles werent 
broken. But he also said the ceiling came down because of the leak. The photos show 
undisturbed tiles around the mixer-tap and a repaired ceiling. Again, in isolation this might 
just show confusion between Mr H and the plumber but, in the absence of a reasonable 
explanation for the differing accounts, I accept that this cast further doubt on the claim for 
Zurich. I think its reasonable that Zurich wanted clarity around the circumstances, especially 
as part of the claim was for repair of the full ceiling, and without it, I think its delay providing a 
decision was fair.
Lamp and floor damage
Mr H said the wood floor was damaged because water had pooled underneath a lamp. The 
photos show a circular mark broadly the size of the lamp base, with further uneven edges, 
typical of a spreading water stain, and some swelling. Mr Hs expert report says the damage 
couldve been caused within 48 hours and the marks were typical of that seen when water is 
in contact with ferrous metal. Zurichs expert says the damage was there much longer and 
cant be attributed to water dripping for just 48 hours. Unfortunately, Mr H immediately 
disposed of the chrome lamp so neither party could determine whether it showed signs of 
involvement in the floor damage, and they relied on its identical pair for base size 
comparison.
The issues which caused Zurich to doubt Mr Hs claim about the lamp contributing to the 
floor damage are these:
he disposed of the lamp immediately, preventing verification of his claim; 
Mr H said the purchase price of the lamp was around £700, but he hasnt claimed for 
the loss;
its unlikely that the leak Mr H described wouldve damaged the lamp to the extent 
that he didnt try to get it repaired;
Zurich has seen one lamp, but Mr H hasnt provided evidence that he bought two 
identical lamps, and
the expert reports give conflicting information about the cause and extent of the floor 
damage.
 
With these points in mind, I can see why Zurich had doubts about the claim. Mr H couldnt 
provide evidence of his loss, and he chose not to claim for items which Zurich says couldve 
been added to the claim for consideration. At this point, Zurich has concerns about three 
parts of Mr Hs claim, none of which he was able to verify or explain.
Expert reports
Two experts gave conflicting assessments of whether the floor wouldve been damaged to 
the extent shown in the photos by a 48-hour dripping leak. But Mr H wouldnt agree to a third 
expert assessment to bring this matter to a conclusion. In situations such as this, Id expect a 
third assessment and I think Zurichs request was fair because it wouldve given Mr H the 
opportunity to prove his loss. While Mr H thought enough people had already inspected his 
home,  a total of four people for two separate claims - given the value of his claim and the 
possibility of Zurich invoking the fraud and/or failure to cooperate conditions, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable to agree a further inspection. So, I can see why Zurich considered 
his refusal to cooperate with its request evidence of an exaggerated claim.
Floor invoices
Both experts described the varnished wood floor as high-end and in (at least) good 
condition. During the claim investigation, Mr H provided Zurich with the original floor 
purchase and installation invoice from May 2010, and a quote for full replacement by the same company, dated July 2018. Zurich considered the documents to be false for these 
reasons:
the purchase invoice charged VAT at 20% - the rate at the time was 17.5%;
the VAT number handwritten on both documents isnt a valid number, and
the flooring company was dissolved four years before the quote was issued.
Ive confirmed this information with HMRC and Companies House. While Mr H cant be held 
responsible for a company recording its VAT registration number incorrectly, I think its 
unlikely that a company would make the same handwritten mistake on two occasions four 
years apart. I also think Zurich fairly concluded that Mr H wouldve known that the company 
was no longer operating, and a dissolved company wouldnt have quoted for work. Based on 
this information alone, I think Zurich had reasonable cause to think Mr H had supplied false 
documents to support his claim. 
So, Zurich had doubts about the validity of the claim because of the description of events, 
the date on which they happened, the differing expert reports, and the issues around the 
lamp. Together with the evidence suggesting Mr H provided false documents  a proof of 
fraud in itself  I think Zurich has shown that its decision to invoke the fraud condition was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr H has now agreed to the third expert assessment of his damaged floor. But Zurich 
confirmed that its decision to invoke the fraud condition wasnt due to Mr Hs refusal to have 
a further inspection  it was because it had sufficient evidence to think hed made a 
fraudulent claim. So, if I suggested that the third assessment goes ahead, I would simply be 
prolonging this matter. Zurich declined the claim under the fraud condition and, for the 
reasons Ive given, here, I think it was fair to do so. I wont be asking Zurich to make 
arrangements for a further assessment.
Overall, then, I think Zurich has shown that, on the balance of probability, the evidence Mr H 
provided to support his claim was likely to be false and exaggerated in order to gain from his 
policy. The Insurance Act 2015 states that if a fraudulent claim is made,
the insurer is not liable to pay the claim,
the insurer maytreat the contract asterminated with effect from the time of the 
fraudulent act. 
The policy conditions state:
Fraud
If you or anyone acting on your behalf have intentionally concealed or misrepresented any 
information or circumstance that you had a responsibility to tell us about, or engaged in any 
fraudulent conduct, or made any false statement relating to this insurance, we will:
void the policy in the event of any fraud which occurred during the application 
process, which means we will treat the policy as if it had never existed; or
terminate the policy with effect from the date of any fraud which occurred during the 
period of insurance; and in either case, we will:
not return to you any premium paid;
not pay any fraudulent claim or a claim which relates to a loss suffered after any 
fraud;
seek to recover any money from you for any claim we have already paid which is 
later established as invalid, including the amount of any costs or expenses we have 
incurred;
informother financial services organisations and anti-fraud databases.Zurich declined Mr Hs claim under the fraud condition, cancelled his policy and confirmed it 
would recover its costs for Claim 2 from the Claim 1 settlement. Im satisfied that its actions 
were in line with those provided for within the Act and the terms of the policy, so I wont be 
asking Zurich to reinstate the policy or remove any fraud marker from the database.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Zurich had nothing further to add.
Mr H responded with further comments under each of the headings in my provisional 
decision, and he disagreed with the overall findings. Ill summarise and respond to each 
point in turn.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I realise hell be disappointed 
with this outcome, but I havent seen anything to suggest that Zurich handled his claim 
unfairly. 
As a first point, Mr H commented that hed not seen the correspondence provided by Zurich 
to our service. Some of the information is commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied that my 
decision summarises the key pieces of evidence. I understand Mr H is aware of how he can 
obtain any personal data.
The insured peril/loss
Mr H believes he demonstrated his loss, but Zurich doesnt think the level of damage seen 
couldve happened in the way he describes. Mr H hasnt provided any further evidence to 
support his claim, but he comments that Zurich hasnt paid any part of the settlement for the 
first claim, or shown its costs for the second claim to be removed from the first.
As Mr H hasnt provided any further evidence, and after reconsidering what was already 
available, my view on the loss and the circumstances around it hasnt changed. Ill address 
the specific points of the claim under the relevant heading below. In terms of any settlement, 
my decision is based on the understanding that Zurich will, if it hasnt already, settle the first 
claim which is not disputed. If Mr H doesnt receive the settlement, hed need to raise that 
with Zurich in the first instance.
Date of leak
Mr H said his travel dates were confirmed by Zurich and reliance shouldnt be placed on any 
mistake made when giving the day and dates of the insured peril. He says any inconsistency 
was a misunderstanding because he had two ongoing claims for escape of water. He also 
explained that Zurich spoke with his plumber who confirmed the exact dates.
If thered been a simple misunderstanding once, or perhaps twice, then I might accept this. 
However, having looked through the documents again, its clear that Mr H repeatedly 
reported the claim differently. I can see that he said the damage was found after one night 
away from home, after a weekend away, on a specific mid-week date, and on a Sunday 
evening. But, the point I made was that he gave Zurich conflicting information, so it was 
reasonable that it wanted to investigate further. I agree that confusing the dates, alone, 
might not amount to fraud, but it does go to explain why Zurich delayed giving a decision 
about the second claim, which was Mr Hs original complaint.Access and repair
Mr H explained that the plumber wouldnt necessarily be aware of the difference between 
trace and access, and simply repairing a leak. So, he doesnt think it was fair for Zurich to 
criticise him for any comments the plumber made.
The concern isnt what amounts to trace and access  rather that Mr H said tiles werent 
broken and the plumber said he broke them to effect the repair. Further, it was reported that 
the ceiling came down because of the leak and that the ceiling was purposely cut away to 
gain access. Again, the issue here is that Zurich received differing accounts of the work 
done and how the leak was accessed, so I think it was reasonable to delay its decision about 
the claim while waiting for clarification. I dont think Zurich did anything wrong here.
Lamp and floor damage
Mr H thinks its odd that Zurich doubts his version of events because he didnt claim for his 
damaged lamp. However, I dont think his decision not to claim for it was the key factor in 
Zurichs consideration of the claim. Mr H threw away what was an expensive lamp rather 
than keep it to support his claim, or to see whether it could be repaired or replaced. If the 
water leaked down the lamp and pooled underneath, leading to the floor damage, then its 
reasonable that Zurich would want to see it to confirm it was the source of rust present in the 
floor stain. 
So, I think it was reasonable that Zurich questioned Mr Hs decision not to keep or claim for 
the lamp. Partly because it was one of a matching pair, and for which he had a receipt, and 
partly because it wouldve allowed him to prove his claim. In the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for Zurich to take this into consideration when assessing the overall claim.
Expert evidence
Mr H says he hasnt been able to confirm that Zurichs engineers are more qualified than the 
expert he appointed. He points out that his expert carried out comparative testing and 
disputed Zurichs suggestion that the damage couldve been caused by a potted plant. 
I see that Mr Hs expert report says the damage didnt contain any organic matter, which is 
why he ruled out a potted plant. He went on to say that the damage was metallic in nature, 
suggesting the water had come into contact with ferrous metal. Setting aside the fact that 
plant pots can be metaI, and a pot inside the home is unlikely to have drainage holes which 
might let organic matter through, Zurich pointed out that the lamp was chrome plated and 
unlikely to be a source of rust over such a short time. I also note that Mr Hs expert says that 
a domestic water supply naturally contains traces of ferrous elements and couldve 
contributed to the staining. So, I dont think the expert report provides anything conclusive. 
Further, Mr Hs expert carried out tests on a sample of similar wood and reported that the 
resulting stain was similar to that on the wooden floor. Mr H reported that the water dripped 
through his ceiling, down the lamp and pooled around the base. The test his expert carried 
out involved submerging a small piece of wood in water for 48 hours. I cant fairly say that 
the test mirrors the circumstances of the claim, and Im not persuaded that Mr Hs expert 
was better qualified to comment on the damage than Zurichs expert.
With all this said, the overriding issue is that if Mr H had kept the lamp to show its damage, 
this matter couldve been avoided. Instead, there were two conflicting expert reports, and I 
dont think it was unreasonable that Zurich proposed a further inspection. 
Mr H said he is willing to have a further inspection but, at this point, I dont think theres any 
benefit. A further inspection would just give another opinion of the same facts, without the 
lamp as firm evidence to support it either way. VAT invoices
Mr H says he cant be expected to know the trading status of the original floor supplier, so 
Zurichs comments about it being dissolved several years earlier are irrelevant. He also says 
he submitted an estimate, not a VAT invoice, so there was no attempt of fraud.
The point here is that the VAT number on the paid purchase invoice is invalid, and the VAT 
percentage is incorrect for the date of issue. Mr H presented it as the original floor 
installation invoice, so I can see why Zurich questioned its authenticity, when considered 
alongside all other points raised here. 
The estimate Mr H presented had the same invalid VAT number, but he says he cant be 
expected to know the companys trading status, especially as the same person has a 
similarly named company now. The trading status is not the only issue here. The VAT 
number is the same on both the invoice and the estimate, and it isnt valid. I think its 
reasonable Zurich doubted the authenticity of the invoice because it showed current VAT 
rates and an incorrect registration number, and Zurich questioned whether it was, in fact, a 
more recently created invoice. 
Summary
Looking at each point in isolation detracts from the overall view of the circumstances. Zurich 
declined Mr Hs claim and invoked the fraud condition because, put together, these issues 
led it to believe that Mr Hs second claim wasnt genuine, and that hed provided false 
documents to support it. Mr H rightly pointed out that it isnt my role to determine a fraud 
allegation. My role is to decide whether Zurich fairly declined the claim and whether it was 
reasonable to invoke the fraud condition for the reasons it gave. For the reasons Ive given 
above, Im satisfied that Zurichs decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and 
in line with the terms of the policy. I see no reason to ask Zurich to remove the fraud marker 
or carry out a further inspection of the floor.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman