DRN-3414324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National House-Building Council trading as NHBC unfairly 
declined a claim made under their Buildmark policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought their new home in 2016. In 2021 they discovered water marks on their 
ceilings and found that water had been escaping from both showers at the property. 
They made a claim to NHBC but this was declined. NHBC said the leak was a plumbing 
issue and wasnt covered by the policy. Unhappy with NHBCs decision to decline the claim, 
Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint. NHBC didnt uphold the complaint, saying the initial 
decision had been correct and that the criteria under Section 3 of the Buildmark policy hadnt 
been met. They advised Mr and Mrs H to contact a plumber to rectify the issue.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered all the information provided, but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She said there wasnt a defect that had caused physical damage to the property  
which was affecting the structural stability of their home and/or its weather tightness, as 
required by their policy.
Because Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Hs Buildmark policy covers them for various issues with their property and these 
are set out in the policy terms and conditions booklet. 
As they bought their home in 2016 and made a claim in 2021, their claim was made during 
years three to ten after their propertys completion date (or within the 8 years after the initial 
builder warranty period).
During this period, claims can only be made under Section 3 of the policy. But this section 
doesnt cover everything that could go wrong with a newly built home. The policy says this 
section applies:
if there is physical damage to your home because the builder failed to build the 
following parts of your home to comply with the NHBC requirements:
Foundations, walls, external cladding, curtain walling, external render and external 
vertical tile handing, roofs, ceilings, balconies, load-bearing parts of the floors, flues, 
chimneys and access steps, to the main structure.
Staircases, floor decking and screeds, to the inside of the main structure, if they fail 
to support normal loads.
Retaining walls, if they are necessary for the structural stability of the main 
structure, if newly installed at the completion date.
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible. 
Whilst the above wording doesnt suggest the policy would appear to cover the issues Mr 
and Mrs H have had with their bathrooms, Ive still considered whether the damage Mr and 
Mrs H found could be covered under Section 3. In doing so Ive considered the photographs, 
invoices and all the other information Mr and Mrs H have provided.
Mr and Mrs H have said they were advised by a bathroom company that the damage was 
due to the tiles and grouting becoming compromised and that this had caused a leak behind 
the tile enclosure when the showers were being used in the two bathrooms. Theyve said 
they were also advised that this was due to poor materials and bad workmanship. Im sorry 
to hear they encountered such a problem with their new home, and I appreciate it must have 
been worrying. I can also understand their frustration in having to renovate their bathrooms 
as a result.
But Im afraid that problems with poor workmanship or materials in tiling and grouting 
bathrooms is not something thats covered by the relevant section of their policy. Section 3 
generally covers damage caused by a defect which affects the structural stability or weather 
tightness of a new build. This is also mentioned in the policy booklet, which says that during 
the 8 years after the initial builder warranty period Your home is protected against structural 
problems.
Because the issue and damage caused by the bathroom leaks wasnt damage caused by a 
defect which affected the structural integrity of the home, I cant say NHBC acted unfairly in 
its application of the policy terms and in declining the claim.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but for that reason, Im afraid I wont be requiring 
NHBC to do anything differently here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman