DRN-3442213
The complaint
Miss P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly ended a 
hire purchase agreement and repossessed her car. 
What happened
In May 2019 Miss P entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. Under the 
agreement she was to make a total of 47 monthly payments of just under £174, followed by 
an optional balloon payment if she wanted to keep the car.
The agreement said, at clause 2.1, that timing of the payments was of the essence of the 
agreement. Clause 10.1 said that if Miss P was in breach of any term of the agreement  
VWFS could end it on expiry of the requisite statutory notice.
On occasions, payments were made late or not at all, and VWFS sent regular arrears 
notices throughout most of 2020 and 2021. 
On 9 December 2021 VWFS sent a default notice under section 87(1) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. The letter explained the provisions that had breached (non-payment of 
instalments), what Miss P needed to do to remedy the breach, and what the consequences 
might be  including ending the agreement and recovering the car. Repayment of the arrears 
of  at that point  just over £250 was required by 28 December 2021.
Miss P was unable to make the payment and so contacted VWFS to see what could be 
done. She was told that she would need to provide information about her income and 
expenditure so VWFS could consider whether a payment plan was appropriate. It was not 
possible to agree a plan, and VWFS ended the agreement in February 2022.
Miss P did not think this was fair and referred the matter to this service. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened but did not think Miss P had been treated 
unfairly. Miss P did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The requirement that Miss P make monthly payments under the hire purchase agreement 
was, of course, fundamental to that agreement. And the effect of clause 2 was that it was not 
only fundamental that Miss P make the payments, she had to make them on time. By 
making timing of payments of the essence the agreement was, in effect, saying that late 
payments were sufficiently serious that they would allow VWFS to end the agreement. 
Miss P does not dispute that payments were not always made on time, that they were 
sometimes not made at all, or that her account was in arrears in December 2021. Rather, 
she says that her circumstances meant that VWFS should have allowed her to keep the car, 
regardless of the breaches. 
I do sympathise with Miss P. She has explained why her financial and personal 
circumstances made it difficult for her to keep up with payments. She has also explained the 
impact of not having a car has had and will have on her. However, I think it was clear by the 
end of 2021 that she would probably continue to have difficulties making the payments she 
needed to make. VWFS complied with the relevant statutory requirements before ending the 
agreement and repossessing the car, and I believe it was reasonable for it to have taken the 
action it did.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman