DRN-4161443
The complaint
Miss L complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) dealt with 
a claim on her motor insurance. References to Advantage include other organisations and 
individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss L had motor insurance underwritten by Advantage. Her car was involved in an accident 
which wasnt her fault. She made a claim on her insurance. Under the terms of her policy 
she was provided with a courtesy car. It took approximately eight months for the repairs to 
be completed. 
Miss L wasnt happy with the delays and complained to Advantage. Advantage said during 
the claim process Miss L didnt receive communication and updates, as it would have 
expected. Advantage apologised for any inconvenience and frustration caused and paid 
Miss L £100 compensation.
Miss L wasnt happy with this so she complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. He said he thought the £100 compensation offered was fair in 
recognition of the delays caused by Advantage.
Miss L disagreed with what the investigator said so her complaint has been passed to me. 
Miss L says the repairs hadnt been completed at renewal and she had to stay with 
Advantage even though shed found a cheaper quote elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
It did take about eight months for the repairs to Miss Ls car to be completed. However some 
of the delay was caused because Miss L wanted her car repaired at the main dealership, but 
the dealership was unable to agree terms with Advantage. Miss L then found another garage 
she wanted to use, but it took some months for Advantage to receive the estimate from this 
garage as it seems there was some confusion about the process. Advantage said the 
estimate was then authorised the same day and it told Miss L she could go ahead and book 
the car in for repair. However it was about another three months before the garage could 
complete the repairs.
I can understand why Miss L might want to use the repairer of her choice, but that inevitably 
meant that she needed to spend more time getting estimates and liaising with the garage 
than if she had used Advantages approved repairer. In fact Advantage had allocated an 
approved repairer within days of Miss L making the claim but this wasnt a repairer she 
wanted to use.
So I agree that some, but not all, of the delays were caused by Advantage and I think 
Advantage should compensate Miss L for the delays that were its fault. On balance I think 
the £100 already paid to Miss L by Advantage is fair and reasonable compensation for her 
time and inconvenience, and is in line with the amount of compensation this service would 
usually suggest.
Miss L hasnt provided any details of the other insurance cover she said was cheaper, or 
whether the policy was equivalent to the one she had with Advantage. I cant therefore say 
that she has been disadvantaged by having to stay with Advantage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. So I wont be asking 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman