DRN-3244581
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about how their claim was handled and how they thought the 
claim was unfairly declined by The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P said the inner part of one of their garden walls collapsed during the night, so 
they made a claim on their policy to NFU.
NFU appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. As Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with 
the conclusions drawn, NFU also instructed a surveyor to provide a second opinion of the 
cause of the collapsed wall. Mr and Mrs P have raised concerns that NFU used contractors 
to inspect the damage. NFU reviewed the reports produced by its own contractors and the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs P in support of their claim. Based on this information, 
NFU decided to decline the claim as it said the damage sustained to Mr and Mrs Ps 
property was due to a gradually operating cause and/or frost damage, which it said was 
specifically excluded from the policy. NFU said it was willing to consider new evidence if Mr 
and Mrs P decided to instruct another independent expert.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with NFUs decision and they set out several reasons why. Mr 
and Mrs P didnt think NFU had provided evidence of historical movement of the wall or 
damage due to frost. Mr and Mrs P explained previous maintenance that had been 
completed on the wall and explained none of their other walls had shown signs of historical 
movement or frost damage.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the claim had been 
handled fairly and she explained why she thought the expert reports supported NFUs 
decision to decline the claim. She couldnt see any other aspects of the policy that would 
cover Mr and Mrs P for the damage of the wall. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noticed in the final response from NFU, it said the cause of the wall collapsing was due to a 
gradually operating cause and/or frost damage, which it said is specifically excluded from the 
policy. As Mr and Mrs Ps claim was for accidental damage, NFU could decline the claim 
based on excluded risks, which includes any cause that happens gradually. So, I will say 
NFU has been fair if it has provided evidence that supports this.
I have also noted what NFU said at the time it declined the claim. It said: 
Your policy provides cover for loss or damage to your home by a number of causes which 
can be found listed in your policy booklet. For a valid claim to arise it must be shown that 
one of these causes has operated to bring about the damage for which you are claiming.
[Our contractor has] concluded that damage to your garden wall has occurred due to historic 
movement over time. It has therefore been concluded that the damage you are claiming for 
has not been caused by an insured peril.
I have carefully read the reports provided by Mr and Mrs P and NFUs experts on the likely 
cause of the damage to the wall. I have noted that Mr and Mrs P have done some 
maintenance on the wall in previous years. However, I think the reports are consistent in 
their conclusions that the damage to the wall is most likely to be historic in nature. It has 
been suggested by NFUs experts that the damage is consistent with what damage frost 
would cause if acting over a long period of time. As these reports are consistent in the 
historic nature of the damage, Im persuaded that the damage to the wall wasnt caused by 
an insured peril. An insured peril is a known one-off event which has caused the damage to 
the wall, such as a storm, a fire, or an accident. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs P has provided any evidence to the contrary that shows a recent 
one-off insured peril caused the damage to the wall. And I think NFU has provided evidence 
that the cause of the damage is historical in nature. Therefore, I think NFU has been fair in 
declining the claim, so I dont uphold this complaint.
NFU has said if Mr and Mrs P can provide new evidence on the cause of the damage, it will 
be happy to consider this. I think this is a reasonable approach.
I have also considered whether I think NFU has handled the complaint reasonably. On 
balance, I think it has. Mr and Mrs P were disappointed that NFU has used third party 
contractors to provide opinions on the likely cause of the damage to the wall. Mr and Mrs P 
felt that the opinions made were pre-conceived before the wall was inspected.
Having reviewed the handling of the claim, I dont think Mr and Mrs P were ever misled to 
how the claims process would work. The policy documentation sets this out clearly. The 
approach taken by NFU is common in the industry, as it allows insurers to bring expertise 
into the claim that otherwise they wouldnt have. It wouldnt make sense for an insurer to 
have its own experts ready to deploy in every field. It makes more commercial sense for 
them to call on the expertise as and when they need it and it helps to keep the cost of 
insurance policies reasonable. I dont think NFU has acted unreasonably. I havent seen any 
evidence that the contractors used havent acted properly and professionally. Their views 
are not dissimilar to that provided by Mr and Mrs Ps own contractor. Therefore, as I dont 
think NFU has done anything wrong here, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman