DRN-3579531
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under her 
home emergency insurance policy.
Mrs A is represented in this complaint by her husband but, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs A 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs A had a HomeCare policy with British Gas that included repairs to her boiler and central 
heating, and included an annual service. In July 2020 a British Gas engineer carried out an 
annual service on her boiler. In March 2021 Mrs A noticed water coming out of the bottom of 
the boiler and got in touch with British Gas. It said it might take three weeks to send an 
engineer due to strike action at the time. So, it suggested Mrs A find her own engineer and 
British Gas would reimburse her for the cost of any work done. The third-party engineer who 
visited condemned the boiler as they thought it was dangerous due to the possible leakage 
of fumes. They said the drain valve had failed above the boiler causing water to slowly drip 
onto the top of the boiler. This had caused the casing to rust and rot through. They said the 
extent of the rust would indicate it had been an issue for a while. 
Mrs A complained to British Gas as she said its engineer should have identified the issue 
during the annual service in July 2020. Had they done so they might have prevented the 
damage and the potential dangerous release of fumes.
British Gas visited Mrs As property and said it was clear there had been a leak above the 
boiler for some time which had caused the top of the casing to rust and been left in a 
dangerous situation. But it said it was unable to say what the damage would have been like 
when it carried out the annual service in July 2020 and whether it should have been noted. It 
said the case that rusted was decorative and not integral to the safety of the appliance. And 
as there was no perforation of the room sealed case, there was no danger to Mrs A. It said 
had there been internal rust, it would have been raised as an issue - but this was not needed 
as the external rust wouldnt cause a safety hazard. British Gas offered Mrs A £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the safety issues, having to get a new boiler last minute, poor service 
history and not having an engineer available when she needed one. Mrs A remained 
unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator noted that the terms of Mrs As policy said that British Gas would only 
replace the boiler if it was between seven to ten years old. And as her boiler had been 
installed in 2001, it didnt meet that requirement. She said there was no record of rusting or 
leaking in the job report prepared by the engineer who serviced the boiler in July 2020. While 
Mrs A didnt feel as though the engineer had inspected the boiler properly, our investigator 
didnt think there was any evidence to support this. She also noted that British Gas 
engineers had recommended Mrs A replace her boiler on several occasions since 2013 due 
to its age and the difficulty getting replacement parts. She concluded by saying she couldnt 
say with any certainty that British Gass engineer missed anything during the 2020 annual 
service.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators view and so her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. I came to a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator and so sent a provisional decision to Mrs A and British Gas to give them an 
opportunity to comment. Neither party replied so my findings and my decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As HomeCare policy says British Gas will replace her 
boiler if it cant repair it and its less than seven years old. It will also replace it if its between 
seven and ten years old, British Gas installed it and its been continuously covered under 
either a warranty or a HomeCare product. As Mrs As boiler was installed over 20 years ago, 
Im satisfied it was fair for British Gas to say it wasnt responsible for replacing her boiler 
under the terms of her policy.
The terms of Mrs As policy also sets out what she can expect from British Gas during an 
annual service, including taking the boiler apart if that proves necessary and letting her know 
if it finds a problem or fault that needs to be fixed. The question here is whether the engineer 
who carried out the annual service on Mrs As boiler in July 2020 did so adequately. Is it 
likely rust would have been evident at that time? And, if so, should the engineer have noticed 
it?
British Gas said its unable to say if the engineer should have noted the damage during the 
annual service. It said the engineer would have noted the rust if it had been there and can 
only assume it wasnt rusty at the time. It also said the rust had affected the external casing, 
which is decorative rather than integral to the safety of the boiler, and there was no 
perforation of the room sealed case. So, there wouldnt have been any danger to Mrs A. 
The third-party engineer who condemned the boiler said the top of the boiler was very rusty 
and the extent of the rust would indicate it had been an issue for a while. He said he 
condemned the boiler because of the possible leakage of fumes. Mrs A also said the 
engineer who removed the boiler thought the leak had been there for much longer than the 
eight months since the annual service. And she said the engineer who carried out the annual 
service hadnt looked on top of the boiler. Mrs A also provided an email from the 
manufacturer of her old boiler. They didnt comment on how long the rust had been there but 
they looked at the photographs and agreed the boiler should have been condemned as it 
would no longer be room sealed. 
In situations like this, where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. And having carefully considered all 
the available evidence in this case, including the photographs provided by Mrs A and the 
evidence provided by both parties, Im more persuaded by the evidence put forward by 
Mrs A. On balance and, looking at the extent of the rust in March 2021, I think it more likely 
than not there was some rust there when the engineer carried out the annual service eight 
months previously. Although British Gas has said external rust wouldnt have caused a 
safety issue, which might explain why the engineer doing the annual service didnt note the 
rust, Im satisfied there would have been at least a risk of fumes leaking from the boiler. So, I 
think its reasonable to have expected the engineer to identify that rust as part of the annual 
service and to then have taken action to prevent further corrosion. Putting things right
Having decided that British Gas are at fault for not carrying out an adequate annual 
inspection in July 2020, whats the impact of that? Had British Gas done what it should have 
done at that time, it would have stopped the drip and assessed the damage to the top of the 
boiler. The damage might have been bad enough to condemn the boiler then. In that case, 
Mrs A would have been in the same position. She would have to have paid for a new boiler 
in any event as her HomeCare policy didnt cover her for a replacement boiler due to the age 
of her existing one. 
If the damage hadnt been sufficiently severe to condemn the boiler, British Gas might have 
been able to replace the external casing and Mrs A might have been able to continue to use 
her old boiler. But the boiler was old and I can see that British Gas had been recommending 
she replace the boiler since 2013. So, I think its likely Mrs A would have needed to pay for a 
new boiler at some point in the near future anyway. I think its most likely she simply paid for 
a new boiler sooner than she would otherwise have needed to. So, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask British Gas to pay for the cost of her new boiler. 
But I do think British Gas should do more to recognise the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. Mrs A had to arrange for a third-party engineer to attend in March 2021 as there 
were no British Gas engineers available. Mrs A was also concerned shed been living for 
eight months in a house with an unsafe boiler. That could have been avoided had the annual 
service been carried out adequately. She would also have avoided the inconvenience of 
pursuing the matter with British Gas. And I think British Gas should also reimburse Mrs A for 
the cost of the annual service that was carried out in July 2020. British Gas has already paid 
Mrs A £150 as gesture of goodwill but I think it should increase that to £400. So, it should 
pay Mrs A a further £250. I think that amount is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.    
Mrs A thinks British Gas should reimburse her for the premiums she continued to pay after 
March 2021 but I dont think that would be fair. She chose to continue with her HomeCare 
policy beyond that point and she continued to benefit from the cover provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs As complaint and 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay her a further £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman