DRN-3197550
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
avoided her home insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Ms C took out a home insurance policy with Red Sands. About three months later, Ms C 
contacted Red Sands to make a claim for theft from a shed. Red Sands said Ms C had 
incorrectly answered the question it asked about whether people who lived at the property 
had a conviction. And it considered this to be a careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to cancel the policy from the start. It also refunded the 
premium paid.
When Ms C complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for Red Sands to decline the claim and cancel the policy as her husband 
lived with her and had a criminal conviction.
As Ms C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 29 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Red Sands said Ms C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by 
failing to declare that her husband lived with her and that he had a criminal conviction. Ive 
looked at the policy documents. These dont show what Ms C was asked. However, the 
documents summarised what information Ms C provided and said she needed to check the 
documents were correct and to keep the information up to date. The documents said Ms C 
had said:
You live there with 0 other adults and 3 children under the age of 18, there are no
permanent lodgers, and other than those named policyholders there are no residents with 
criminal convictions.
During the claim, Red Sands concluded that Ms Cs husband lived with her. Im aware that 
Ms C has disputed this and provided information to this service to show various details 
related to her circumstances. I also listened to the phone calls between Red Sands and Ms 
C during the claim. During one phone call, Ms C explained that her husband lived with her 
for about a quarter of the year and lived elsewhere for work. Red Sands then spoke to Ms C 
again to discuss this further. It asked Ms C about her husbands main residence. Ms C 
explained that the accommodation her husband lived in elsewhere was provided through 
work. Ms C said it wasnt his residence and confirmed that he was registered at her address. 
Red Sands also said Ms C had previously declared that she was separated. Ms C said this 
had been the case, but they had got back together.
So, based on all the evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Red Sands to decide 
that Ms Cs husband lived with her. However, I havent seen any evidence to show this, in 
itself, was the reason Red Sands concluded Ms C had misrepresented and so cancelled the 
policy. From what Ive seen, that was because her husband had a conviction. So, Ive also 
looked at this.
In one of the phone calls about the claim, Red Sands asked about convictions. Ms C 
explained that her husband had received a conviction the previous year and had received a 
fine. Red Sands didnt ask for the date of the conviction and it wasnt specifically discussed 
during that phone call. I note that when Red Sands provided details of the complaint to this 
service, it said Ms Cs husband had gone to prison. However, I havent seen any evidence to 
show this was the case.
I also asked Ms C for more details of the conviction. She explained that her husband had 
received a fine in November 2019. So, I looked at the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 
(ROA) to see when this conviction would be spent. The ROA said a fine would normally be 
spent after 12 months. Looking at when the policy was taken out and when the insurance 
claim was made, both of these were more than 12 months after the conviction. So, based on 
what Ive seen, by the time Ms C took out the policy, the conviction had been spent and so 
didnt need to be declared. 
I also asked Red Sands whether it had considered how sentences were dealt with under the 
ROA, including when they became spent, and whether it had any reason to think the 
conviction hadnt already been spent by the time Ms C took out the policy. If Red Sands 
remained of the view that Ms C had misrepresented by not declaring the conviction, I asked 
it to explain how this was in line with the ROA, to provide the exact question Ms C was 
asked about convictions and to clarify the type of misrepresentation Ms C had made and its 
reasons for classifying it in that way. When Red Sands replied it said it should have 
requested more information about the conviction and considered this at the time the claim 
was declined. It didnt provide any of the requested details.
So, I havent currently seen enough evidence to show Ms C made a misrepresentation about 
the conviction when she took out the policy. Red Sands was aware that Ms Cs husband had 
been fined, as Ms C told it this during a phone call. It didnt then seem to follow up on this to 
find out further details, such as the date of conviction, and how this type of sentence was 
dealt with under the ROA. Red Sands now seems to accept that it didnt do enough to look 
at the conviction and it hasnt provided any of the requested evidence to show why it was 
reasonable to decide that Ms C had misrepresented. So, based on everything Ive seen, I 
dont currently think it was reasonable for Red Sands to conclude that Ms C made a 
misrepresentation when she took out the policy that meant the policy should be cancelled.
As a result, I currently intend to require Red Sands to remove all references to the 
cancellation from databases, reinstate the policy and to continue to consider the claim, if Ms 
C still wishes to continue with it. It is my understanding that Red Sands refunded the premiums. Ms C should be aware that any premiums for the policy will normally need to be 
paid as part of it being reinstated.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 26 April 2022.
Ms C said she and her husband were now divorced and that he doesnt live at the property 
at all. She also said Red Sands hadnt refunded the premiums, so she assumed no 
payments would be due from her.
Red Sands said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive found no reason to change my decision. Im aware Ms C has said 
the premiums werent refunded. She should discuss this with Red Sands to clarify the 
position.
Putting things right
Red Sands should remove any references to the cancellation from databases, reinstate the 
policy and continue to consider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Remove any references to the policy cancellation from internal and external databases.
Reinstate the policy.
Continue to consider the theft claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman