DRN-2535602
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) has turned down a storm damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
 On 8 November 2019, Mr and Mrs B got in touch with NFU to make a claim. They said their 
bay window had been damaged during a storm and that rainwater had got inside their home, 
causing damage. 
NFU looked into Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It noted that around the date of the claim, there 
hadnt been storm wind speeds recorded. The repair quotes Mr and Mrs B had sent it from 
their roofer hadnt stated a cause of the damage. So it spoke to their roofer who said he 
thought the damage was down to poor workmanship when the roof had been repaired 
before. On this basis, NFU turned down the claim because it said the damage wasnt down 
to storm, or anything else the policy covered. It also said that as the external damage wasnt 
covered, it couldnt cover the costs of repairing the internal damage. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with NFUs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Ultimately, our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be partly upheld. Given 
the level of rainfall thatd fallen the day before Mr and Mrs B made the claim, he thought 
there had been a wet storm. He wasnt persuaded that the external damage was consistent 
with a wet storm. Thats because he noticed the flashing had lifted, which he didnt think 
would be caused by rainfall alone. And he also thought Mr and Mrs Bs roofer had likely 
been right about the cause of the damage. So he didnt think NFU needed to pay the claim 
for the external damage. 
But he considered the internal damage separately. He thought water damage was consistent 
with a wet storm. And looking at the evidence both parties had provided, he thought the 
damage seemed to be consistent with a one-off event of storm. So he recommended that 
NFU should consider Mr and Mrs Bs internal damage claim under the storm cover. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree that it was fair for NFU to turn down the external damage claim. 
NFU also disagreed. It said while there were heavy rains, the damage wouldnt have 
happened if the bay window had been working properly. It added that the fact the external 
damage wasnt down to storm meant that the proximate cause of the internal damage claim 
also wasnt storm. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think NFU should consider Mr and Mrs Bs internal damage claim. Ill 
explain why. 
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
  Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no, then the claim wont succeed. 
Before I look at the external and internal damage separately, Ill consider whether there were 
storm conditions on or around the date of the claim. NFU hasnt defined what it means by a 
storm in its policy wording. Where an insurer hasnt included a definition of what a storm is, 
wed generally say that a storm involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or 
snow. So this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions 
on or around the date of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Ive considered the local weather reports from around the date of the claim. The highest wind 
speeds during that week (on 5 and 8 November 2019) were 32mph. I dont think that these 
can reasonably be considered to be storm winds. 
But the records also show that on 7 November 2019, the day before Mr and Mrs B called 
NFU to make their claim, rainfall of 58.6mm was recorded and localised flooding was seen. 
In my view, this level of rainfall was sufficiently heavy that I think it should fairly be 
considered as a wet storm. On this basis, I think the answer to the first question is yes. 
Was it fair for NFU to turn down the external damage claim? 
Ive turned to consider whether the external damage was consistent with storm damage. It 
seems Mr and Mrs Bs roofer told NFU that the flashing had lifted; the underlay was 
damaged and there was a hole which the water got through. It doesnt appear that the roofer 
thought the damage was consistent with storm. And having looked at the photos Mr and Mrs 
B provided of their bay window, it doesnt look like the flashing was flat to the bay window. 
The roofer didnt give a cause of damage in his report (although it seems Mr and Mrs B were 
asked to obtain this information). And as Mr and Mrs B were getting the repairs carried out 
quickly, if NFU had appointed a loss adjuster, it seems thered have been no damage 
remaining for them to view. So I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to have relied on 
the roofers comments and the photos when it assessed whether or not the damage was 
consistent with storm and what the likely main cause of the damage was. Thats because the 
roofer had had the chance to look at the damage and the photos clearly showed the bay 
window. 
I think it was fair for NFU to have concluded, based on the available evidence, that a wet 
storm was unlikely to have caused flashing to lift or a hole to be made. So it doesnt appear 
that the external damage was consistent with a wet storm. This means the answer to the 
second question is no and consequently, I think it was fair and reasonable for NFU to turn 
down the external damage claim. Id also add that given the roofers comments about the likely cause of the external damage 
being down to poor workmanship, I also think it was fair for NFU to conclude that the wet 
storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Was it fair for NFU to turn down the internal damage claim? 
NFU says that as the external damage wasnt down to storm, it follows that the proximate 
cause of the internal damage couldnt have been storm. It says that Mr and Mrs B dont have 
buildings accidental damage cover, so the internal damage claim cant be considered under 
this heading. I disagree though. I think the internal damage should be considered separately 
to the external damage. So Ive gone on to think about whether the internal damage was 
consistent with storm and whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. In my view, 
water ingress resulting in internal water damage to walls and ceilings following very heavy 
rainfall is consistent with wet storm damage. This means the answer to the second question 
is yes. 
Ive looked closely at the information NFUs provided. It seems the roofer thought the water 
had been getting in through a hole for some time. Damage caused over time isnt covered by 
the policy, so I can understand why NFU may have concluded the internal damage shouldnt 
be covered. But having carefully considered the photos, it doesnt seem to me that the water 
staining is consistent with water ingress over time. I say that because the staining seems 
fresh and theres no mould growth. Ive also borne in mind that Mr and Mrs B made their 
claim the day after the wet storm  so it seems the damage immediately followed the very 
heavy rains on 7 November 2019. 
On balance, the photos suggest that the internal damage was the result of a one-off event of 
wet storm, rather than happening over time. On this basis, I think the answer to third 
question is also yes. And so it follows that I dont think it was fair and reasonable for NFU to 
turn down the internal damage claim. 
Overall, I dont think NFU has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. I think it was reasonable for NFU 
to rely on the available evidence to turn down their external damage claim. But I dont think 
the evidence suggests the internal damage happened over time. And I think it was most 
likely caused by the wet storm. So I dont think it was fair for NFU to turn down this part of 
the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
I direct National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to consider Mr and Mrs 
Bs internal damage claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman