DRN-3316376
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined her porting application. 
She asks that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) she paid and discloses the real 
reason for the decline. 
What happened
Miss C had taken out a five-year fixed interest rate product in early 2020. This included an 
ERC if she repaid the mortgage during the product term. She could move house and avoid 
paying the ERC if she ported the mortgage to another property. 
Miss C wanted to make a porting application and take out additional borrowing. She 
contacted Nationwide in May 2021, but her decision in principle (DIP) was declined. Miss C 
says she was given two different reasons for this which were both incorrect. Nationwide then 
said this was due to internal credit scoring and wouldnt tell her more. Miss C said she had 
no choice other than to take out a mortgage with another lender. 
Our investigator said Nationwide was entitled to apply the ERC, and to apply its lending 
criteria to Miss Cs application. The investigator said Miss Cs application was declined due 
to failing internal credit scoring and this wasnt unfair. He said Nationwides offer of £100 for 
confusion caused about its reasons for declining the application was fair.
Miss C didnt agree. She said Nationwide changed what it claimed was the reason for the 
decline after she complained. She asked that this was investigated further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Miss C took out a fixed interest rate product which included an ERC. The product offer set 
out the amount of the ERC and when it would be payable. Miss C agreed to this when she 
took out the product. She repaid the mortgage during the product term and Nationwide 
applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the terms and conditions. Miss C says this 
was unfair. She says Nationwide declined her porting application unfairly, leaving her no 
option other than to repay the mortgage and borrow elsewhere.
Miss C contacted Nationwide in May 2021 about porting her mortgage of about £110,000 
and borrowing another £100,000. This was declined. The DIP says your application has 
been declined as it failed credit score. This is not necessarily due to adverse bureau 
information. I think this is consistent with Nationwide saying it declined the application due 
to internal credit scoring.
Miss C says her application was declined because she took a payment deferral during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Nationwide didnt say this was the reason. But a mortgage adviser did 
say that the payment deferral might have been a factor and said hed re-key the application. 
The second application was declined, also due to failing internal credit scoring. 
Having looked at Nationwides internal notes, I think both applications were declined for the 
reason given by Nationwide  that they failed internal credit scoring. 
Nationwide paid £100 for the confusion caused by the conflicting information it had given 
Miss C. I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Miss C was disappointed that her porting application was declined. But I 
havent seen anything here to suggest that Nationwide acted unfairly. It was entitled to apply 
its lending criteria to Miss Cs porting application  this was stated clearly in the product 
offer. Nationwide told Miss C it wouldnt offer the amount she wanted to borrow immediately 
when she contacted it about making an application to port her mortgage and take out further 
borrowing. 
I appreciate that Miss C hoped Nationwide might change its decision following her complaint, 
and having to wait for an answer was frustrating. But Nationwide had already been clear that 
it was declining her application. I dont think I can fairly find that Nationwide was responsible 
for any hope Miss C had that it would change its decision. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide to refund the 
ERC Miss C paid or to provide her with more information about its decision to decline her 
porting application.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman