DRN-3429934
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had the benefit of an annual, premier, multi-trip travel insurance policy,
underwritten by Great Lakes (the policy). The policy covered the period 15 February 2020 
to 14 February 2021.
Mr G booked flights abroad to a country Ill refer to as T, departing the UK on 24 March 
2020. He was due to return to the UK towards the end of April 2020. And within two weeks of 
booking his flights, Mr G booked and paid for accommodation to cover part of his stay in T 
and an activities course. Flights and accommodation were booked separately with different 
providers. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic (the FCO advice). That 
included travel to T. And on 23 March 2020, the government of England announced wide-
ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. The government 
announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential 
reasons. 
On 19 March 2020, Mr G contacted the accommodation provider to cancel his reservation 
because the UK government have issued a FCO to ban all but essential travel and 
enquired how he could get his money back. He also contacted the airline around the same 
time requesting a refund of the flight due to the FCO advice.
In early 2021, Mr G made a claim on the policy to cover his pre-paid costs. He said that his 
trip was cancelled due to FCO advice. Great Lakes declined the claim on the basis that this 
wasnt a specified, insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. It also said that 
the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy excludes claims relating to: prohibitive 
regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of the booked Trip 
due to government action. 
Unhappy, Mr G complained to Great Lakes. He also said that hed had symptoms of Covid-
19 at the time of cancelling his accommodation on 19 March 2020. Great Lakes replied 
saying that when Mr G submitted his claim, he gave the reason for cancellation as FCO 
advice. It said it could only assess the claim based on the information submitted to it. There 
was no mention that he contracted Covid-19 or that this was the reason for cancellation. It 
went on to say:
If you had to cancel the trip due to illness, this is something that may be covered on 
your policy. In order for us to re-assess your claim, we will need the attached claim 
form completed, which includes a medical certificate that your GP will need to 
complete, to confirm that you were unable to travel as a result of contracting COVID-
19.
And although it concluded that the claim had been correctly declined based on the 
information provided, Great Lakes said it would reassess his claim on receipt of a completed 
medical certificate. 
Mr G subsequently provided a letter from his GP. The letter reflects that Mr G contacted the 
surgery on 19 March 2020 and asked for advice regarding his symptoms of a Covid-19 
infection. He was advised to self-isolate for a week or until symptoms subsided  in line with 
guidance from around that time. It also confirmed that Mr G was prescribed anti-biotics on 7 
April 2020 for a chest infection following his recent Covid-19 infection. 
Great Lakes maintained its position to decline the claim on the basis that the trip was 
cancelled prior to him contacting his GP surgery on 19 March 2021. 
Mr G brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened and 
didnt think Great Lakes had acted fairly by declining Mr Gs claim once Mr G had confirmed 
that he had contracted Covid-19 at the time his trip was cancelled and had provided Great 
Lakes with a letter from his GP surgery. She recommended Mr Gs claim should be accepted 
and considered in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Great Lakes disagreed, so Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, pages 24 and 25 of the policy sets out the 
circumstances under which Great Lakes provides cover if a trip is cancelled (or curtailed). 
I accept that a trip being cancelled because of a change in FCO advice isnt listed as a 
specific insured event. However, there is cover under this section for:
Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a close Relative or any person with whom 
You have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
When first making his claim, Mr G didnt list having contracted Covid-19 as a reason for his 
trip being cancelled. Hed only listed FCO advice as the reason. 
However, in the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think Mr Gs failure to mention 
having contracted Covid-19 as a reason for cancelling the trip to be fatal to the success of 
his claim. And when issuing its final response letter Great Lakes said it would reassess Mr 
Gs claim upon receipt of a medical certificate from his GP confirming that hed contracted 
Covid-19 around the time the trip was cancelled.
Mr Gs GP surgery has provided a letter confirming that Mr G had contacted it on 19 March 
2020 asking for advice regarding his symptoms of a Covid infection. 
Mr G says that hed been experiencing symptoms since around 12 March 2020. Thats not 
reflected in the GP letter but Ive got no reason to doubt what he says about that. Further, 
considering the guidance from around that time - to self-isolate at home and not seek medical attention unless symptoms were severe - I think its plausible that there isnt other 
supporting documentary evidence from around the time confirming Mr Gs symptoms from 
around 12 March 2020.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr Gs claim. I think 
a combination of factors  including the FCO advice issued on 17 March 2020 and having 
contracted Covid-19 are likely to have impacted his trip being cancelled.
But as at 19 March 2020, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that he was 
experiencing symptoms of Covid-19 based on the contents of the GPs letter. And as hed 
been advised to self-isolate for a week  or until his symptoms subsided  he wouldve 
known that it was unlikely that hed be able to travel abroad five days later, on 24 March 
2020. So, I think its plausible thats why he contacted the accommodation provider on the 
same date to cancel his booking  and also requested a refund from the airline around this 
time too.
When contacting the accommodation provider and airline, I know Mr G said that he was 
cancelling his booking due to the FCO advice. But I dont think that means he wasnt also 
experiencing Covid-19 symptoms at the time.
So, I think the operative reason which led to Mr Gs trip being cancelled on or around 19 
March 2020 was his unforeseen illness and therefore, covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out exclusions specifically relating to cancellation 
claims. It expressly says Mr G isnt covered for:
prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of 
the booked Trip due to government action
Ill refer to this as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.
But as Im satisfied that the main reason for Mr Gs trip being cancelled on 19 March 2020 
was his illness, I dont think the prohibitive regulations exclusion is relevant. And further, at 
the time Mr Gs trip was cancelled:
- the UK hadnt entered lockdown and there wasnt a government regulation 
restricting movement or prohibiting travel abroad  there was only FCO advice. And I 
dont think such advice amounts to a prohibitive regulation. 
- Ts government hadnt issued any prohibitive regulations preventing entry to visitors.
- The government of the country through which Mr G was due to transit when flying to 
T hadnt issued any prohibitive regulations. Restrictions werent announced until 22 
March 2020. 
Im also conscious that even if it was the FCO advice (and not unforeseen illness) that did 
result in Mr Gs trip being cancelled - and this isnt listed as a specific insured event under 
the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy - I still dont think it would be fair for Great 
Lakes to decline Mr Gs claim on that basis.
Having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont think itsfair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case for Mr G to have no cover under the 
policy if the reason for his trip being cancelled was the FCO advice. Thats because the 
policy has a general exclusion (page 49  clause 22) which excludes:
Any claim arising from You travelling to a country or specific area or event to which 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice) or the 
World Health Organisation (www.who.int) has advised the public not to travel.
So, if the trip was cancelled due to FCO advice, Mr G would have no cover under the policy 
under the cancellation/curtailment section. And if hed decided to travel, despite the 
circumstances he found himself in as of 19 March 2020, Mr G also wouldnt have been 
covered if hed travelled. 
Mr G would have needed to cross refer between the first page of the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID)  which Mr G wouldve been provided with when talking out the 
policy  summarising the main cover and exclusions under the policy, the cancelation 
section of the policy and the general exclusions to understand that there was no cover if the 
trip was cancelled because of a change in FCO advice. 
I dont think this is fair or reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would expect an 
exclusion like this to be brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the
policy wasnt clear to Mr G and I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights 
of the Mr G and the rights of Great Lakes.
I think its unlikely that Mr G would have bought the policy if hed realised there would be no 
cover under the policy if FCO advice changed after hed bought the policy  particularly as 
there wouldve been travel policies available for him to buy around the time he bought the 
policy which wouldve covered such circumstances.
When deciding this case, Ive taken into account that Mr G said on his claim form that he 
became aware that it was necessary to cancel on 2 March 2020. But looking at all the 
circumstances and the timeline of events, Im satisfied this was most likely a typo or an error 
on Mr Gs part. Thats before he says he had any symptoms of Covid-19, the FCO advice 
and the date on which the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a global pandemic 
on 11 March 2020. Ive also considered Great Lakes references to other decisions of this 
service. However, Ive decided this case based on its own circumstances, taking into the 
account the terms of the policy Mr G had the benefit of. 
Putting things right
I direct Great Lakes to re-assess the claim on the basis that the circumstances are covered 
as an insured event under the cancellation/curtailment section of the policy and that the 
prohibitive regulations exclusion doesnt apply to the circumstances of this claim. 
The reassessment of the claim is subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
 including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the cancellation/curtailment section of the 
policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right by doing what 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman