DRN-2624243
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
January 2013 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator as follows.
Mr F says that he took out the URCA as Halifax told him he could only keep his overdraft if 
he did so, and it would improve his credit score.
Halifax says Mr F chose to take out the account based on the information it gave him and its 
trained staff would not have told him he had to have it to keep his overdraft or improve his 
credit score.
I wasnt present in the discussion so I can only look at the evidence available now.
Mr F had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft, so he knew these were 
available. I cant see any evidence to indicate, or any reason why, Halifax would say it was 
going to take his overdraft away. And I cant see any evidence that Mr F requested to 
increase his lending in the period after taking out the account.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr F knew he had a choice and chose to take out the 
account based on the information Halifax gave him about the actual benefits of the account.
I think its likely the sale was non advised but I will assume that Halifax did recommend the 
URCA to Mr F as it is to his advantage and does not affect the outcome of my decision. So, 
Halifax was required to check that the URCA was suitable for Mr F in his circumstances at 
the time and provide him with enough information to make an informed choice.
The URCA benefits included worldwide family travel, mobile phone insurance, car 
breakdown service, home emergency cover, card protection and a £300 interest and fee free 
overdraft. Mr F wouldve expected to pay £10 a month for the URCA at the time as he was 
paying his salary into the account.
Mr F says he did travel for leisure but had travel insurance through his employer. Halifax has 
recorded a discussion where it said to him that he should check if he had enough cover for 
himself and his family through his employers insurance. So, I think its more likely than not 
that he did and went ahead with the URCA, having done so.
Mr F had a mobile phone and a car at the time, and he registered his phone for the 
insurance cover and used the car breakdown service shortly after the sale.
Mr F had gone overdrawn regularly on his account prior to the sale and the interest and fee 
free £300 overdraft limit helped him avoid £1 a day charges and additional interest going 
forward.
Mr F couldve closed the account at any time but didnt and kept it for many years.
So, in my view, I cant say it is more likely than not that the URCA was unsuitable for him.
Mr F has signed the application form for the URCA to say hes received the details of the 
cost and benefits, so I think its more likely than not he knew enough about the URCA to 
make an informed decision.
So, I think its more likely than not that Halifax didnt do anything wrong in selling the URCA 
to Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman