DRN-3393416
The complaint
Mr T complains that Phoenix Life Limited provided him with inaccurate information about his 
pension savings between 2011 and 2018.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Phoenix needed to do to put things right. 
Both parties have received a copy of my provisional decision but, for completeness, I include 
some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr T held two pension plans with Phoenix. He says that, in 2011, he understood that 
he had put one of those pension plans into payment, leaving the other plan to provide 
additional income later in his retirement. Phoenixs records indicate that both plans 
were put into payment in 2011.
But in 2011, due to an administrative error, Phoenix failed to record that one of the 
two plans had been put into payment, although it recorded the other plan correctly. 
As a result Phoenix continued to send Mr T regular statements showing the growth of 
his pension savings. As Mr T approached his 70th birthday in 2018  the retirement 
age specified on the plan  Phoenix wrote to him to set out the pension benefits he 
could take. Mr T responded to those quotations asking to take a Pension 
Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) of 
approximately £105,000 with the remainder of his pension savings being used to 
purchase an annuity utilising a guaranteed annuity rate.
Shortly before Phoenix put Mr Ts pension into payment in 2018 it noticed that it had 
made an error in 2011. So it got in touch with Mr T to explain that he had no further 
pension benefits due to him  they had all been paid in 2011. But by that time, in 
anticipation of the PCLS that Phoenixs incorrect information had said he was due, 
Mr T had given away a large proportion of his savings to his daughters.
Phoenix accepted that it had provided incorrect information to Mr T between 2011 
and 2018. But it told him that it was unable to pay the pension benefits he thought he 
would be receiving. Phoenix offered Mr T £3,000 to reflect the trouble and upset that 
he had been caused by its error.
 
Mr T didnt accept Phoenixs offer. He accepted that he wasnt entitled to the pension 
benefits that had been incorrectly offered to him. But he said that he was unable to 
recover the money he had given to his daughters as it had already been spent. So he 
thought Phoenix should increase the compensation he had been offered to reflect the 
depletion of his savings.
There is much of the background to this complaint that isnt in dispute. Mr T was paid 
benefits in 2011 in relation to both his pension plans. And Phoenix failed to correctly 
record that event on its systems meaning that it continued to provide statements for 
one of the pension plans showing the growth of those pension savings and the 
benefits that would be available to Mr T in the future. So Phoenix clearly accepts that 
something has gone wrong here, and I can see it has apologised to Mr T for its 
errors.
In looking at what might need to be done to correct the impact of those errors, it 
seems that Mr T now accepts that he has no entitlement to the pension benefits that 
have been reported to him over the years as a result of Phoenixs error. And I think 
that is right  putting Mr T back into the position he would have been had nothing 
gone wrong, would clearly not result in him receiving additional pension benefits. But 
Mr T says that he has taken irrevocable financial decisions as a result of Phoenixs 
mistake  and it is those decisions that I should consider as his loss from Phoenixs 
error.
So to reach a decision on this complaint I think there are two aspects that I need to 
consider;
Was it reasonable for Mr T to not realise, in 2011, that Phoenix had paid 
benefits to him in relation to both his pension plans?
Has Mr T taken irrevocable financial decisions based on the incorrect 
information Phoenix has provided to him between 2011 and 2018? If I find 
that to be the case, then I need to consider to what extent it would be 
reasonable for Phoenix to compensate Mr T for any losses he cannot recover.
What happened in 2011
Mr T has told us that his plans in 2011 were to take the benefits from just one of his 
pension plans. He says that originally he had intended leaving both plans until the 
scheduled retirement age of 70 (in 2018) but that he had experienced a fall in his 
income so decided to access some of his benefits.
Ive looked at the information Phoenix sent to Mr T in 2011. Those forms do 
reference both of Mr Ts pension policy numbers. And they talk about policies rather 
than policy when referring to Mr Ts benefits. So I dont think that information 
suggested that Mr T was only taking the benefits from just one of his policies.
But of course that doesnt mean that Mr T hasnt given us his honest recollections of 
what he thought happened in 2011. I appreciate those events took place almost ten 
years ago. And over such a long time even the most careful of memories can, and 
do, fade. But I think it would be entirely reasonable to accept that Mr T had intended 
to just take the benefits from one of his pension plans. And, since Phoenix continued 
to send him annual statements for the other plan, he had no reason to think that 
wasnt what had happened. Im not persuaded that, when taking into account the 
addition of final bonusses and the like, I can reasonably conclude that Mr T should 
have noticed that the pension benefits he was paid in 2011 were higher than he 
might have reasonably expected.
So on balance I cannot attribute any blame to Mr T for not recognising the error that 
Phoenix made over the following years in continuing to send statements on his 
pension plan. And I certainly dont have any evidence to suggest that Mr Ts actions 
might have in some way been dishonest  being aware of Phoenixs mistake and 
hoping it would remain undiscovered.
Mr Ts more recent financial decisionsAs I have accepted that Mr T would have been reasonably unaware that Phoenix had 
made an error, it follows that he had a reasonable expectation that he would receive 
pension benefits from his other policy when he chose to put them into payment. The 
selected retirement age on that policy was when Mr T reached 70 years of age in 
2018.
Phoenix sent regular statements to Mr T between 2011 and 2018. I entirely accept 
that each of those statements simply presented the value of Mr Ts pension savings 
at that time. They didnt provide him with any guarantee about what he would receive 
when he retired  those benefits, Phoenix explained, could only be determined at the 
time they were taken and could be affected by things such as changes in investment 
performance. But I think those statements gave Mr T a reasonable picture of how his 
pension savings were growing and the sort of level of benefits he might expect.
In early 2018 I can see that Mr T made a large payment to each of his three 
daughters. He has explained in some detail his daughters circumstances and the 
use each daughter made of that money. Mr T says that means that, once Phoenixs 
error came to light, it would be unreasonable to expect him to ask his daughters for 
repayment of the money. And, on balance, I would tend to agree with what Mr T has 
said.
 
There is of course the obvious complication that Mr T made those payments before 
he received final confirmation from Phoenix of what his pension benefits would be, let 
alone actually receiving any payment. And Mr T himself accepts that, with the benefit 
of hindsight, he would have been better off delaying the payments he made to his 
daughters. But I dont think the payments he made were so reckless or 
unreasonable, given the stated value of his pension savings at that time, that I should 
allow the timing of the payments to influence my decision here.
Generally, where a consumer has made irrevocable financial transactions, based on 
a reasonable expectation of future receipts, I would consider asking the responsible 
business to make a payment equivalent to those payments. And that is what Mr T 
has asked that I do here to put things right. But I dont think that is a fair resolution to 
the specific circumstances of this complaint.
The payments that Mr T has made have been to his three daughters. So, considering 
a lengthy passage of time and I accept making assumptions about what might 
happen after his death, it could be argued that he has simply brought forward any 
inheritance that his daughters might receive. And there is a further argument that, by 
making the payments now, he might reduce any liability to inheritance tax that his 
estate might incur. So I dont think that Mr Ts financial losses are as extreme as he 
has suggested.
But, and this is something I am very mindful of, making those payments now has 
placed Mr T, and his wife, into a far less stable financial situation than they might 
have envisaged for their retirement. They have effectively reduced the savings that 
they expected to provide a safe and comfortable retirement by approximately 
£70,000. I expect that alone would cause significant distress to most people.
But since the error came to light, Mr T and his wife have both suffered from ill-health. 
And I have seen letters from both their doctors explaining that they had been made 
aware of the problems the couple were facing due to Phoenixs error, and noting that 
the stress that has caused is potentially a contributing factor to their ill health. So 
I think that presents a strong argument that Phoenixs error has caused pain and 
suffering to Mr T as well as significant upset resulting from his wifes ill-health.Mr T has explained that, due to his wifes ill health, he needs to carefully balance his 
need to raise additional funds from perhaps downsizing their house, or taking some 
form of equity release, against the additional distress that will cause. I am sure that is 
a difficult burden for him to bear. I dont accept the argument that Phoenix has 
presented that its responsibility for the problems faced by Mr T is mitigated by his 
decision to pay the monies to his daughters before they had been received from 
Phoenix.
I have thought carefully about what level of compensation might be appropriate here. 
There are very few comparative situations that might guide me in assessing what is 
appropriate. We have set out on our website some examples of the sorts of awards 
this Service might make in situations where consumers have suffered from distress 
and inconvenience. And I think the circumstances here would move my award 
towards the upper end of that scale.
As I said earlier, Phoenix has offered Mr T £3,000 in respect of that trouble and 
upset. I appreciate that offer is perhaps one of the larger offers the business would 
expect to make. But I dont think it is anywhere near large enough to reflect the 
disappointment caused to Mr T, the pain and suffering he and his wife have been 
caused, and the ongoing problems he will face. He had built an expectation over a 
lengthy period of time and no doubt made long term plans based on both the PCLS 
and ongoing income that he reasonably expected to receive.
 
So I think a payment of £7,500 would fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience 
Phoenixs error has caused, and that these problems might continue for a prolonged 
period of time. I understand that is far short of Mr Ts expectations, but I cannot 
reasonably conclude that Phoenix should compensate him for the entirety of the 
payments he made to his daughters  I think doing so would unfairly enrich his family 
as a whole.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Phoenix has said that it doesnt want to provide us with anything 
further. Mr T has provided some additional comments. Although I am only summarising here 
what Mr T has said I want to reassure him that I have read, and carefully considered, his 
entire response.
Mr T has thanked me for my provisional decision and acknowledged that it thoroughly 
represents the events of the past years. Mr T has told us more about the health problems 
that have been experienced by him and his wife. He says that their doctors have recognised 
that their problems are caused by the stress of the situation they find themselves in as a 
result of Phoenixs error. Mr T still thinks that the compensation he receives should be 
higher. He says that he has irrevocably lost £70,000 of his savings. And my proposed award 
only amounts to around 10% of that loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both parties appear to have accepted my conclusions in relation to what happened in 2011, 
and in the subsequent years. It is clear that Phoenix incorrectly sent information to Mr T that 
gave him a reasonable expectation that he would receive additional pension benefits when 
he reached 70 years of age in 2018. So all that is left for me to reconsider is what 
compensation Mr T should be paid by Phoenix.
I have no doubts about the impact this error has had on Mr T and his wife, both in terms of 
the depletion of their savings, and the ill-health from which they continue to suffer. I cannot 
express how much sympathy I have for the position they have found themselves in. But 
I must reach a conclusion on this complaint that is fair and reasonable to both parties.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think that the depletion of Mr and Mrs Ts savings 
hasnt caused a loss to the wider family  it has simply redistributed that wealth in a similar 
manner to what might have been likely after Mr and Mrs Ts death. So whilst I agree with 
Mr Ts conclusion that he has suffered a loss to his savings amounting to £70,000, I dont 
think that loss is something that Phoenix needs to make good.
But it is the reduction in those savings, and the impact that this has had, and potentially will 
continue to have, on Mr and Mrs Ts mental and physical health, that has led me to conclude 
that substantial compensation should be paid by Phoenix. But I dont think it is right to judge 
the level of that compensation against the reduction in the value of Mr Ts savings  I think 
those are two very different causes.
I cannot return Mr and Mrs T to the position they, and their wider family, would be in had 
Phoenix not made any error in 2011, and in its subsequent communications. But I do think a 
substantial award is required to compensate Mr T for the pain and suffering he and his wife 
have been caused and the distress and inconvenience resulting from Phoenixs error. But 
Im sorry to tell Mr T that Im still of the opinion that £7,500 is a reasonable reflection of what 
should be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. I direct Phoenix Life Limited to pay him 
the sum of £7,500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman