DRN-1681325
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC UK) incorrectly charged him for an 
international fund transfer.
What happened
Mr C holds a premier bank account with both HSBC UK, and another bank who Ill call S 
which is part of the wider HSBC group - but in his usual country of residence.
In 2019, Mr C made several transfers from his US Dollar (USD) account with S to his sterling 
account with HSBC UK. However, when Mr C received the credits to his HSBC UK account, 
he noted that charges had been applied - so he hadnt received the full transfer amount he 
was expecting.
 
Mr C complained to HSBC UK. He said that because of the type of account he held with both 
HSBC UK and S, the terms and conditions of both accounts said that international online 
transfers were free. Mr C explained that hed spoken to S and theyd confirmed that they 
hadnt charged him, and there was no evidence of charges being deducted when the 
payment was made. However, when Mr C received the payment into his HSBC UK account, 
he could see the charges being applied and he wanted to know who was applying them.
 
HSBC UK didnt uphold the complaint. They said that they hadnt applied any charges for 
payments sent or received from their account, but they could only comment on their part of 
the transaction. HSBC UK also said that they couldnt comment on any charges that may 
have been applied by S before the payment had reached them.
 
They explained that as Mr C had made his payment in USD, under United States (US) 
legislation all payments must be routed through the US. HSBC UK also said that it was 
possible the charge applied to Mr Cs transaction had been made by the intermediary bank 
processing the payment  but they hadnt applied any charges. But they suggested Mr C 
contact S to see if this was the case. Mr C didnt agree as he still felt HSBC UK were 
responsible, so he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that although there 
were two banks involved in the transfers, his investigation was only looking at HSBC UKs 
actions  and he didnt think they were at fault for the charges. He did however, recognise 
that HSBC UKs response about how the charges may have been applied could have been 
clearer.
 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he felt we should have established who was responsible for the 
charge being applied to his transfers. He also didnt agree that we didnt think HSBC UK 
were at fault for any part of his complaint. And as the regulator, he felt that it was 
unreasonable we couldnt take action against the HSBC UK for their part in the process 
itself. So he asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
 
I recognise that Mr C feels we should take more action against HSBC UK and undertake a 
review of the transfer process as a whole. But were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont review their internal processes or how they operate generally. 
Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between a 
business and their customer.
 
Ultimately, its the HSBC groups commercial decision on how they feel they should comply 
with their regulators requirements, and they are entitled to set their own terms and 
conditions to enable them to do this. In this case Im conscious that banks are required 
under US legislation for any USD transfers to be made through the US. And its a possibility 
that these transactions may have to be made via an intermediary bank to enable them to 
comply with this.
 
I recognise Mr Cs frustration that these transactions have been made between different 
legal entities in the HSBC group. However, as a service we dont look at the wider global 
business for the complaint. I can only look at businesses which are within our jurisdiction, 
and the specific business being complained about - which in this case is HSBC UK. And 
looking at the evidence available, Ive seen that HSBC UK werent the bank arranging the 
transfers, so I cant say they were responsible for the transaction being placed through the 
intermediary bank.
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions that Mr C was provided with when he opened 
his account with HSBC UK. These clearly say that for international payments we dont make 
a payment charge for Currency Account Transfers or Global Transfers from UK accounts. 
They also say that any foreign bank we may use to send the payment, may make a charge. 
Youll only have to pay these charges if you choose sender to pay all charges when you 
request your payment. So, I think Mr C ought to have reasonably been aware that if an 
intermediary bank was involved in an international transfer, that it was possible a fee would 
be charged by them.
 
Looking at the swift transaction statement, it appears that because the payments had to be 
sent via an intermediary bank, a transaction charge would be payable. And when the charge 
is payable the originator bank, in this case, S, input that the charges were to be paid by Mr C 
rather than either of the banks involved in the transaction. As HSBC UK didnt have any 
involvement in both how the payment was submitted, or which intermediary bank was used, I 
cant reasonably hold them responsible for any charges which were deducted by an 
intermediary bank.
 
I acknowledge that Mr C feels that hes been given conflicting information by both HSBC UK 
and S. And that S have categorically said they havent charged the fee, yet it shows on the 
statement Mr C receives from HSBC UK. However, Ive looked at the transaction statements 
and the explanation that HSBC UK have provided, and I think their explanation is plausible. I 
also cant reasonably say HSBC UK have acted unfairly towards Mr C, as theyve explained 
that it is possible that other banks involved in international transfers may apply a charge.
 
I recognise that Mr C will be disappointed as he wanted the cost of the charges refunded 
and action taken against HSBC UK. I also understand Mr Cs frustration that he hasnt been 
provided with the definitive information he wanted about which bank had applied charges to the transactions. But its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and 
Ive seen that HSBC UK have already said sorry to Mr C and refunded him around £23 in 
charges as a gesture of goodwill. So, Im satisfied theyve done enough to put things right 
and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman