DRN-2735082
The complaint
Mr W complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) wont accept liability for 
damage to his car bonnet while it was with Direct Lines approved repairer.
What happened
Mr W had a car insurance policy with Direct Line. In December 2019, he was involved in an 
accident that damaged the back of his car. Direct Line arranged for its approved repairers 
(referred to here as G) to fix the damage. G collected the car, repaired the damage, and 
returned it to Mr W five days later.
When Mr Ws car was returned to him, he noticed fresh chips and scratches on the bonnet. 
He says these werent there when the car was sent for repair. He pointed this out to the 
delivery driver who told him G would contact him to fix this. This didnt happen. Mr W says 
he spent several weeks trying to contact G to arrange this repair without success. He 
complained to Direct Line.
Gs engineer said the chips appeared to have been touched in previously and were due to 
wear and tear. As a result, Direct Line didnt agree that G was responsible for the damage. 
However, it offered Mr W £50 to apologise for Gs driver telling him it would repair the chips. 
Mr W didnt accept that and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He said the 
collection report noted that the car was too dirty to inspect, it was unlikely the car was 
damaged in transit, and this sort of damage wasnt unreasonable given the cars mileage. He 
didnt think there was enough evidence to show the damage happened when the car was 
with G, so he didnt think Direct Line needed to fix it. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 8 March 2021. I said:
First, I apologise to both parties for the time its taken for this complaint to come to me for a 
decision. Im grateful to them for their patience. 
The only issue here is whether the bonnet of Mr Ws car was already chipped when it was 
collected by G. 
Mr W says:
He bought the car just a few months before G repaired it. Hes sent us a photo 
showing no chips on the bonnet. The car hadnt been damaged before his accident.
The Customer car report completed by Gs driver when he collected the car on 12 
December doesnt note any pre-existing damage to the bonnet. 
None of the photos taken by G show chips on the bonnet.
The Collection note on 17 December includes a handwritten note by Gs driver: 
Front bonnet stone chips! The driver said G would repair it.
Direct Line says:
Gs driver didnt inspect the car when he collected it. A note on the Customer car 
report says Cant see previous, car dirty.
Direct Lines engineer says: We also have images and a signed by PH collection 
report showing chips along both front door edges and images of these areas that 
were taken at assessment stage - however due to heavy rain at time of collection and 
assessment we did not pick up on the bonnet chips with images but have been noted 
in 'Pre-accident condition' on Audatex. (I note Direct Line later acknowledged that Mr 
W hadnt signed this report.)
G says the chips in the bonnet appear to have been touched in with a different paint 
to the one it uses.
The repairs were to the back of the car, so G didnt need to work on the front of it.
The car was transported and returned on a delivery truck. The bonnet couldnt have 
been chipped in transit. 
This sort of wear and tear is typical for a car of this age and mileage.
On balance, I think the evidence supports Mr W. I say this for four main reasons:
1. The chips are clearly visible in the photos sent to us by Mr W. I dont see how dirt or 
rain would obscure these.
2. G took more than 50 photos of the car. Given their statement that the car was too 
dirty to inspect when G collected it, Id have expected them to photograph any pre-
existing damage. 
3. G took photos of chips on the car doors and of the cars interior. Neither were related 
to the repairs to the back of the car.
4. Finally, the Customer car report showing the cars condition when it was collected 
exists precisely to avoid this sort of dispute. I dont think its reasonable for Direct 
Line to say the chips already existed when this report shows no damage.
Ive thought carefully about the Audatex report dated 12 December 2019 which noted pre-
accident damage, including S/CHIPS FULL FRONT. Direct Lines engineer referred to this.
However, this doesnt persuade me that the damage to the bonnet existed before G 
collected the car. I find this phrasing ambiguous but, more importantly, G photographed the 
other pre-accident damage listed on the report (front and rear bumpers mis-coloured, chips 
on front and rear doors on both sides). But G didnt take any photos showing chips on the 
bonnet. Given it took over 50 photos of the car, Id have expected any existing damage to 
the bonnet to have been photographed as well.
I note that Direct Line didnt refer to this section of the Audatex report in either its final 
response to Mr W or its correspondence with our investigator. Id have thought it would have 
highlighted this if it believed this supported its position. 
I dont know for certain when or how the damage to Mr Ws car bonnet happened. However, 
the evidence suggests it wasnt there when G collected the car. On balance, I think the chips 
were most likely caused when Mr Ws car was with G. It follows that I think Direct Line 
should fix this.
Finally, Direct Line offered Mr W £50 to apologise for Gs driver telling Mr W theyd repair the 
chips but then refusing to do so. Mr Ws car was returned to him on 17 December 2019. He says he spent the next few weeks trying to arrange for G to do this before he contacted 
Direct Line. 
Direct Lines internal notes suggest that Mr W first contacted it on 16 January 2020. So thats 
almost a month when Mr W was unable to get a satisfactory response from G. Ive little 
doubt this would have caused Mr W some frustration and inconvenience. At this stage, I 
think Direct Line should increase its award for the inconvenience its repairer caused Mr W to 
£100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W said he was happy with my decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Direct Line disagreed with me. It said it stood by the evidence it had submitted and said:
The photos provided by Mr W suggest damage to the bonnet could have been 
obscured by dirt when the car was collected.
Its repairer didnt work on the front of the car so couldnt have damaged it during 
repairs. 
The car was transported on a low loader so couldnt have been damaged in transit.
The Audatex report noted the chips when the repairer assessed the car.
The damage was consistent with the cars age and general wear and tear.
Direct Line also questioned Mr Ws credibility given he originally claimed that its repairer also 
damaged areas around the car door.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already considered the main points made by Direct Line and covered them in my 
provisional decision. Nothing its said persuades me that I should change my reasons for 
upholding Mr Ws complaint.
I dont agree with Direct Lines comments about Mr Ws credibility. Its internal notes show 
that Mr Ws original complaint was about the damage to the car bonnet. I think its 
understandable that Mr W found minor damage he hadnt previously noticed when he 
checked the car closely after seeing the fresh damage to the bonnet. He accepted Direct 
Lines conclusion that the dents around the car door were pre-existing, and his complaint to 
this service was only about damage to the bonnet.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont know for certain when or how the damage to Mr 
Ws car bonnet happened. The evidence suggests it wasnt there when G collected the car: 
the damage isnt listed on the Customer Car Report or shown in any of more than 50 photos 
taken at initial assessment. Direct Line disagrees but I dont think the comment on the 
Audatex report is enough to persuade me that the damage already existed. 
On balance, I think the chips were most likely caused when Mr Ws car was with G. It follows 
that I think Direct Line should fix this. It should also pay Mr W £100 to reflect the 
inconvenience caused to Mr W when its repairers failed to reply to him for almost a month 
after initially telling him it would repair the damage.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) to:
repair the damage to Mr Ws car bonnet; and
pay Mr W £100 to apologise for the inconvenience this caused him. (UK Insurance 
can deduct £50 from this award if it has already paid this to Mr W.) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman