DRN-1833792
The complaint 
Mr Ns complaint is about a claim made under his mobile phone insurance policy with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited.
Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. As those agents are acting on its 
behalf, any reference to Assurant in this decision should be read as including anything said 
or done by those agents. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr N damaged his phone and so reported a claim to Assurant. I 
understand he reported that there was damage to the screen and the earpiece. Assurant 
offered for Mr N to take the phone to the manufacturers store to have an express repair 
carried out. Assurant assessed the cost of the repair as being up to £159 and so paid that 
amount (less the policy excess of £50) to Mr N. 
I understand that the total estimate of repair by the manufacturer was £346.44. Assurant  
refused to pay the additional amount and told Mr N he could either pay the additional amount 
himself, or he could repay the £109 it had already paid him and send the phone to it for it to 
repair it.
Mr N is very unhappy with this. He says Assurant knew from the outset that there was more 
than just screen damage (which is all the amount it paid would cover) and so should not 
have offered the express repair option, knowing more work was needed. He wants Assurant 
to pay the additional £187.44 and £250 compensation for the way it has dealt with his 
complaint, as he says it was unfairly concluded before any detailed investigation. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he considered that Assurant had acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance 
with the terms of the policy. 
Mr N does not accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been passed to 
me. 
Mr N says the investigator failed to understand his argument and made it seem that he is 
unwilling to send his phone in to be inspected. He says he doesnt object to sending the 
phone in for inspection but will only accept the manufacturers repair option and will not 
accept a non-manufacturer repair. This is what was offered to him in the first place; and is 
what Assurant did for a claim his wife made in similar circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy with Assurant provides, among other things, that:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either:
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size. If we cannot
do this you will be given a choice of models with an eguivalent specification.
So, Assurants obligation under the policy is to repair a damaged phone, or replace it if it is 
beyond repair. It does not provide any guarantee that this will be carried out by the 
manufacturer but rather states that any repair will be carried out by Assurant. 
However, Assurant initially offered that Mr N could go the manufacturers store for a walk-in 
repair, which would mean he was not without his phone for long. I think that was reasonable.
Assurant says that Mr N was told during a phone call that if the manufacturer repair was 
going to cost more than £159, hed have to pay the difference or send the phone to it to 
repair. It has not provided a recording of that call. Mr N denies that he was ever told he 
would have to pay the difference of any manufacturer repair, if it was more than the £159 
settlement. However, he does say he was told hed have to revert to Assurant for approval of 
any additional costs. 
And the letter sent to Mr N confirming cover, says: if  cant repair your phone within the 
funds provided, please not w will only cover like-for-like repairs for the damage youve told 
us about, any costs for additional repair, upgrades or replacements will not be covered by 
your policy. You can choose to pay the difference, or contact us to follow the alternative 
claims process. 
The alternative claims process was sending the phone to Assurant for repair.  
In my opinion, it was made sufficiently clear to Mr N that Assurant would not pay more than 
the £159 for a manufacturer repair and that he could either pay the difference, or arrange for 
Assurant to carry out the repair.
I am not persuaded therefore that it was unreasonable for Assurant to refuse to pay the 
additional repair costs, over and above the £159. It has offered to carry out the repairs 
needed itself, which is the limit of its obligation under the policy. Mr N says it is unfair to try 
and change the claims process, having initially offered a manufacturers repair, but Assurant 
is entitled to do, even if Mr N is disappointed. And it made this sufficiently clear before Mr N 
took the phone to the manufacturers store. 
Assurant might have agreed to pay for a manufacturer repair of Mr Ns wifes phone but that 
does not create any legally binding precedent on it to do so in any other unrelated claim.
 
For the reasons given above, I am not persuaded that Assurant acted unfairly in dealing with 
the claim. I do not therefore intend to ask it to pay anything further for the manufacturer 
repairs, or any compensation. Its not clear if Mr N has had phone repaired or replaced since 
bringing this complaint. If Mr N wants the repair carried out by Assurant, he will need to 
return the settlement already paid and send the phone to it, in line with its normal process.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman