DRN-2237810
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has not progressed his 
claim for a damaged mobile. 
What happened
Mr R has a mobile phone insurance policy as part of a current account.
On 13 August 2019, Mr R registered a claim for an Apple iPhone 6S Plus. He said the phone 
had fallen onto a concrete floor and was damaged as a result. Assurant assessed and 
accepted the claim and agreed that an upfront payment would be provided for the phone to 
be repaired by Apple.
Following further review, Assurant said it couldnt provide a refund for this damage as a 
previous claim had been recorded for the same phone. Its records showed a payment of 
£109 had been made to Mr R in January 2019 but there was no corresponding evidence of 
the phone having been repaired. 
Mr R disputed this and said he hadnt made a claim in January 2019 for the Apple iPhone 6S 
Plus. Assurant looked into this further. It confirmed a claim had been registered for the same 
phone in January 2019 and a payment had been made to Mr R for the repair to be carried 
out by Apple. Assurant asked Mr R to provide a copy of his bank statement for January 2019 
to show that a payment hadnt been made. Alternatively, Assurant said Mr R should refund 
the £109 or provide evidence of the repair having been made. It said unless Mr R could 
provide this, it couldnt progress the claim. 
Mr R was unhappy with Assurants decision not to progress the claim and made a complaint. 
Assurant sent a final response. This re-iterated the points made previously - that a payment 
for £109 was made following the claim for the same phone in January 2019. As there was no 
evidence of the phone being repaired, Assurant said it couldnt progress the claim unless 
Mr R provided evidence it had been repaired or he could return the £109 payment. 
Unhappy with Assurants response, Mr R brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and said she didnt think Assurant had acted unfairly in not 
progressing the claim. She didnt think it wasnt unreasonable for Assurant to ask for 
evidence the phone had been repaired or otherwise return the money it had paid him 
previously for the repair. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators findings and has asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to decide. 
Mr R says the online records show that a refund for the damaged phone had been approved 
by Assurant, but it hasnt made the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Assurant has followed the process in line with the 
policy terms and conditions and whether that has been done in a fair and reasonable 
manner.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions. This says if a mobile phone is damaged or breaks 
down, Assurant will either repair the phone where possible or replace it with a mobile phone 
of the same make and model. If it cant do this, it would replace it with a model thats 
equivalent to the damaged one. 
The claim has been accepted and thats not in dispute. However, for it to be validated, 
Assurant requires further evidence which relates to a previous claim submitted in 
January 2019 for the same Apple iPhone 6S Plus. I can see in January; Mr R received a 
payment of £109 (£159 minus £50 excess) for the phone to be repaired by Apple. Assurant 
has reviewed its records and theres no confirmation to show the phone has been repaired. 
Its asked Mr R therefore to either provide this confirmation or refund the amount of £109 
Assurant paid in January so that it can proceed with current claim thats open. 
The terms and conditions with regards to an Apple repair say that any documentation 
provided with the repaired device should be retained. Im satisfied that Assurant hasnt been 
unreasonable in asking for this information. 
Mr R hasnt been able to provide evidence that the phone was repaired in January 2019 or 
since. He also hasnt been able to provide evidence (such as a bank statement) to show he 
didnt receive the payment into his bank account. Without any corresponding evidence, Im 
not persuaded Assurant has acted out of line with the terms and conditions. I also dont think 
its wrong in asking for further evidence such as proof of repair or a bank statement showing 
Mr R didnt receive the payment. 
Im satisfied that Assurant has followed its process and that its in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Im also satisfied that in the circumstances of this complaint, 
Assurant hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not progressing the claim until it receives 
the information requested or Mr R refunds the previous amount paid to him.
I understand the claim shows as being open on Mr Rs on-line records which isnt unusual. 
However, that doesnt mean a payment should be made without further review of the 
circumstances. If Mr R wants the claim to progress, the fair thing would be for him to either 
refund the £109 payment made by Assurant or provide evidence that the repair was done on 
the phone. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Assurant hasnt done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman