DRN-3190609
The complaint
Mr F complains about a home emergency policy provided by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr F took out a home emergency policy with Aviva. As part of the initial set up of the policy 
an engineer was sent to Mr Fs property to complete a check on his boiler. During this visit, 
Mr F informed the engineer there was a leak on his bathroom radiator. The engineer couldnt 
see any evidence of a leak at that time but checked the rest of the radiators in the property 
and adjusted them to ensure the central heating system was working properly. 
Mr F later called Aviva to say there was again a leak on his bathroom radiator. An engineer 
reattended the property and as part of that visit also found a leak on the living room radiator. 
Mr F complains the engineer caused the leak on the living room radiator through the actions 
he took on the initial visit. Mr F is unhappy that leaking water has caused damage to the 
floorboards underneath the living room radiator. 
When Mr F complained to Aviva, it denied the engineer had touched the radiators on the 
initial visit. Mr F has explained he felt he was being called a liar and was insulted by this. 
When this was later discovered to be incorrect, Aviva apologised and refunded the excess 
payment that Mr F had been charged for reattending the property as an acknowledgement of 
its error. It did not however agree its engineer caused the living room radiator to leak. 
Mr F was unhappy with Avivas response as he didnt feel the compensation offered 
accurately reflected the distress hed been caused. Nor did it put right the damage that had 
been caused. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Aviva had adequately compensated Mr F for the error it made. And he didnt think, given the 
time that had passed, it could be proved the engineer caused the radiator to leak. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It is now accepted the engineer did adjust the radiators on the first visit. At the time 
the adviser made the opposite statement, it was their belief it was correct based on 
normal practice for a boiler check and the information they had been given. The 
statement wasnt made with the intent to offend Mr F, simply the complaint handler 
would have needed to decide which version of events they were more persuaded by. 
Aviva apologised to Mr F for this error and refunded a claim excess. While I 
appreciate Mr F has said he was very offended he was not believed in the first 
instance, I think the action Aviva has taken is reasonable here. So I dont intend to 
award further compensation. 
The claim excess was initially charged correctly as Mr F had an existing leak on his 
bathroom radiator. As the engineer was called out to fix that leak, it was correctly 
dealt with as a claim and as such Mr F should have been charged an excess for it. 
I think it is clear Mr Fs boiler and central heating system had existing issues prior to 
him taking out cover. The engineer notes there were issues with the boiler reaching 
the correct pressure and also there were issues with the radiators working correctly. 
This is why he adjusted them on the initial visit, to get the system working correctly. 
I appreciate why Mr F believes the leak on the living room radiator was solely caused 
by the actions of the engineer. But, given the evidence available to me, including the 
photo Mr F has provided, Im not persuaded this was the case. I think it is more likely 
than not there was an existing issue with that radiator which the engineers actions 
may have served to highlight.  
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman