DRN-4273879
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has handled a claim he made on 
a group income protection insurance policy.
Mr S is represented by Mrs S.
What happened
Mr S was insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. In 
February 2020, Mr S made an incapacity claim on the policy, which was accepted. HSBC 
Life paid monthly benefit to Mr S employer in line with the contract terms, which was then 
passed on to Mr S by his employer through its payroll. The claim remained in payment.
In February 2022, Mr S employer gave him 12 weeks notice. HSBC Life continued to pay 
Mr S employer monthly benefit during Mr S notice period. Once Mr S employment ended, 
HSBC Life switched to paying Mr S benefit directly.
Mr S was unhappy with the way HSBC Life had handled his claim. His employer had 
continued to pay Mr S during his notice period. Mr S considered this to be statutory notice 
pay, which he was legally entitled to from his employer and which was separate from 
incapacity benefit. He considered that the policy terms entitled to him to monthly incapacity 
benefit from HSBC Life, as well as his notice pay from his employer. So Mrs S asked us to 
look into Mr S complaint. She questioned why HSBC Life had paid Mr S employer 
incapacity benefit during Mr S notice period, when it ought to have been aware that Mr S 
employer wasnt passing the benefit on to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr S complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that HSBC Life had paid monthly benefit to Mr S employer during the notice period. And he 
considered that as Mr S employer had been the policyholder during Mr S notice period, it 
had been reasonable for HSBC Life to pay benefit to the employer at this point. He also felt 
that as Mr S had received his full salary during the notice period, if further incapacity benefit 
had been paid on top, Mr S wouldve been financially advantaged by the claim. So the 
investigator didnt think HSBC Life needed to do anything more.
Mrs S disagreed. She queried why Mr S employer had been able to keep the benefit HSBC 
Life had paid to it. She considered the policy benefit ought to have been paid to Mr S 
directly. She felt that Mr S employer was off-setting his statutory notice pay with the 
incapacity benefit. She maintained that under the contract terms, Mr S was entitled to both 
notice pay and incapacity benefit. She felt that HSBC Life hadnt ensured that Mr S received 
incapacity benefit  instead, it had supported his employer in keeping the money.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think HSBC Life handled his claim 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr S that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and Mrs S detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent 
us. In this decision though, I havent commented on each point Mrs S has made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Next, I must make the parameters of this decision clear. HSBC Life is the insurer of the 
policy and its responsible for ensuring that Mr S claim is paid in line with the policy terms. It 
isnt responsible for anything Mr S employer did, or for any information set out on Mr S 
payslips during his notice period. Critically, it isnt responsible for any decision Mr S 
employer made as to the allocation of the benefit HSBC Life paid it during Mr S notice 
period. This includes whether or not the employer used the benefit to pay Mr S salary during 
the notice period. These are all complaint points Mr S really has about his employer  which 
wasnt HSBC Life  about whether it correctly paid him during his notice period, in line with 
its own employment policy. I cant look into any concerns Mr S has about his employer and 
whether it correctly paid him in line with his employment contract and employment policies, 
as these arent regulated financial activities. My decision is necessarily limited to deciding 
whether HSBC Life handled the claim in line with the insurance contract terms and 
conditions.
It's clear that, in 2020, HSBC Life accepted Mr S claim and began to pay monthly incapacity 
benefit to his employer, which was passed on to Mr S through his monthly pay. This is in line 
with the contract terms, which say: For the first 24 months, the benefit will be paid via the 
(employers) payroll. The policy then states:
If you continue to satisfy the own occupation definition of incapacity after the 24-month 
point, your employment may be terminated and you will receive thebenefit payment 
directly from the insurer
After 24 months had elapsed, Mr S employer put him on notice that his employment would 
end 12 weeks later. The contract indicates that once employment has ended, HSBC Life will 
pay benefit directly to a policy beneficiary. Thats what happened here  after Mr S 
employment ended in May 2022; HSBC Life switched to paying him directly. Prior to that 
date though, I dont think it was unfair, unreasonable or inappropriate for HSBC Life to 
continue to pay monthly benefit to Mr S employer in line with the terms of the insurance 
contract. Ive seen evidence that monthly benefits payments were made to Mr S employer 
by HSBC Life during Mr S notice period.
Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that the policy terms suggest that Mr S is entitled to incapacity 
benefit, as well as notice pay. In my view, this point is really a concern about the employers 
allocation of the monthly benefit it was paid by HSBC Life during Mr S notice period. I say 
that because HSBC Life did pay the applicable incapacity benefit to the employer during Mr 
S notice period. For completeness though, Ive thought about whether HSBC Life has 
incorrectly calculated monthly benefit. The relevant term Mrs S has referred to is set out on 
page six of the policy, which details maximum benefit cover. HSBC Life has set out a list of 
types of income which it might take into account when assessing what the monthly benefit 
amount should be. This includes:
Any continuing income from (employer), including but not limited to, salary and sick pay and 
excluding any payment made during a formal period of notice.This term simply means that HSBC Life wont take into account any payment made during a 
formal period of notice when it calculates the monthly benefit due. As such, HSBC wont 
reduce monthly benefit due to any payments made by an employer during a policy 
beneficiarys formal notice period. Based on the evidence Ive seen; HSBC Life didnt reduce 
the monthly benefit payment during Mr S notice period. So Im satisfied HSBC Life settled 
the claim in line with the policy terms. 
I sympathise with Mr S position, as I appreciate he is very unwell and that hes been through 
a difficult time. But overall, I find that HSBC Life has handled Mr S claim fairly and in line 
with the terms of the insurance contract. So it follows that Im not directing it to pay anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman