DRN-3335956
The complaint
Mr F complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt settled a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F had an annual travel insurance policy, which hed taken out through a broker. He was 
due to travel abroad on 18 March 2020 until 26 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad.
Mr F says he wasnt able to speak to his airline and hed understood from the brokers 
website that hed be covered if he had to cancel his trip due to the change in FCDO advice. 
So he cancelled his flight (which did go ahead) and requested a refund of his airfare from the 
airline. 
The airline didnt agree to pay Mr F a cash refund of his flight costs. But it offered him a 
credit voucher for the full value of his booking. And it ultimately extended the expiry date of 
the voucher until September 2023. As Mr F wanted a cash refund of his flight costs, he made 
a claim on his travel insurance policy.
IPA turned down Mr Fs claim. It said the claim wasnt strictly covered by the cancellation 
section of the policy, but it was looking at Covid-19 related claims on a case-by-case basis. 
However, it also said that the policy only covered financial losses a policyholders suffered. 
As the airline had offered Mr F a credit voucher for the full value of his booking; IPA said he 
hadnt suffered a financial loss. IPA acknowledged though that it hadnt handled Mr Fs claim 
as well as it shouldve done and so it paid him £25 compensation.
Mr F was unhappy with IPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. He agreed that the claim 
wasnt strictly covered by the policy terms, but he noted that IPA had decided to look at 
claims outside of the contract. He felt it had been fair for IPA to conclude that Mr F hadnt 
suffered a financial loss and he didnt think the terms of the credit voucher were overly 
restrictive. So he considered IPA had assessed Mr Fs claim fairly.
Mr F disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt that IPA 
hadnt assessed his claim in line with the regulators rules and hadnt acted in his best 
interests. Before hed bought the flight tickets, hed had cash, which he could spend 
anywhere, but the voucher meant he was limited to spending the value of the airfare with a 
particular airline. While he could gift the vouchers to another person, hed still be at a loss. 
Hed understood from the brokers website that his situation would be covered. At the time, 
hed wanted to visit the destination hed booked to travel to, but he no longer wishes to travel 
there and the airline doesnt offer the cheapest prices to other destinations hed like to visit. 
The pandemic had also affected him financially and he needed a cash refund. He queried 
what the insurance had done for him and felt our role was to check that insurers were fit for 
purpose.
The complaints been passed to me to decide,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain our role. We look into individual complaints brought by 
consumers about the financial businesses we cover, to decide whether a business has done 
anything wrong and if so, whether it needs to put things right. Were not the industry 
regulator and so we have no power to decide whether a financial business is fit for purpose.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to 
decide whether IPA handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Fs contract with IPA. The 
cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events IPA covers for unused costs a 
policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. It says:
We will pay you up to £2,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel 
and accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any 
reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip or one-way trip is 
necessary and unavoidable as a result of any of the following events. (Emphasis added).
IPA doesnt cover cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice. However, it considered 
cancellation claims caused by Covid-19 outside of a strict interpretation of the policy contract 
on a case-by-case basis. I think this was a fair and appropriate response from IPA given the 
circumstances.
I can understand why Mr F feel that IPA should pay his claim for his unused flight costs. I 
appreciate he couldnt have foreseen the circumstances which would arise surrounding 
Covid-19. But I think the cancellation section of the policy makes it clear that IPA will only 
cover irrecoverable losses. IPA hasnt included a definition of what it means by 
irrecoverable losses, so Ive considered the plain and ordinary meaning of the phrase. In my 
view, this mean a financial loss which a policyholder cant get back from elsewhere.IPA says that as the airline has offered Mr F a credit voucher for the full value of his airfare; 
he hasnt suffered a financial loss which is covered by the policy. And I think the policy 
wording makes it clear that IPA doesnt cover costs which can be recovered from elsewhere. 
Ive seen copies of emails from the airline, setting out the terms of the voucher. It was worth 
the full price of Mr Fs flight tickets. The emails said that Mr F could use the voucher as a 
payment or part payment towards a future booking. The original voucher was valid for a 12 
month period, but the airline has now extended the expiry date until 30 September 2023. So 
I think it was fair for IPA to conclude that Mr F hadnt suffered a financial loss of his travel 
costs, because the credit voucher would cover the full value of his airfare and was still 
available to use with the airline hed booked with. And I dont think its unreasonable for IPA 
to conclude that Mr F might be in a position to use the credit voucher before it expires. 
In my view, the terms of the credit voucher arent overly restrictive. I say that because Mr F 
is able to put the voucher towards any flight  he isnt limited to travelling to the same 
destination or on any particular date. I also think theres a reasonable period of time 
remaining before the voucher expires in which Mr F can make use of the voucher. I can 
understand why Mr F might prefer to get a cash refund for his airfare, given what hes told us 
about his financial position and I appreciate he feels the airline is more expensive than other 
providers. I do sympathise with his position and its open to him to get back in touch with the 
airline if hes unhappy with the option its given him. But taking everything into account, I 
think it was fair for IPA to consider that Mr F hasnt suffered a financial loss in the 
circumstances of this case. So I think it was fair for IPA to turn down his claim.
I appreciate Mr F feels strongly that the brokers website led him to believe his situation 
would be covered. Based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely that IPA would have 
settled Mr Fs claim had the airline not offered Mr F any form of refund or credit voucher and 
had he shown his airfare was irrecoverable. The reason for the decline of the claim was 
because IPA concluded Mr F hadnt suffered a financial loss which fell within the scope of 
cover. And as Ive explained, I think this was a fair conclusion for it to reach.
IPA accepts Mr F experienced unacceptable delays in contacting its claims team. So it paid 
him £25 compensation. In my view, this was a fair award to reflect the likely inconvenience I 
think these delays caused Mr F and so Im not telling IPA to pay Mr F anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman