DRN-1922566
 
The complaint
Mr Z feels Second Charge Funding Limited (SCF) didnt do enough to try to find him a 
second charge loan.
What happened
Mr Z approached SCF as he wanted to apply for a second charge loan. He says he picked 
SCF because its a master broker and its fee was lower than others in the market.
Following correspondence between the parties SCF spoke to Mr Z on 17 February to obtain 
all the information it needed to decide where to place his application. In that call SCF warned 
Mr Z that his circumstances may pose an issue but said it would refer it over.
On 19 February SCF emailed Mr Z to say it was unable to assist him due to affordability.
Our investigator said SCF hadnt done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr Z didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware my summary of the background above doesnt include every contact between the 
parties, and although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to decide whats fair and 
reasonable having assessed all the available evidence from the parties.
Having looked at everything and kept in mind the regulatory requirements and normal 
industry practice, Im not persuaded (as I must be if Im to uphold this complaint) that SCF 
did less than any normal broker would reasonably be expected to do. The fact another 
broker went further for Mr Z which meant he was able to obtain the loan he wanted doesnt 
mean SCF also had to do so.
SCF didnt charge Mr Z a broker fee, so it wasnt in its interests to spend as long as it did on 
Mr Zs enquiry for it not to go anywhere, as it would only get paid if a second charge loan 
completed. It was also not in its interests to simply tell Mr Z it couldnt help him if it truly 
believed it could.
On 17 February SCF told Mr Z that the proposal wasnt likely to be successful for 
affordability reasons, to which Mr Z replied if thats something you cant do then, you know, 
lets not waste each others time as I can go to the other broker who does know the 
situation. SCF said it couldnt rule anything out and it would refer it over but reiterated that 
the affordability may pose an issue.
Mr Z has said SCF shouldnt have said it would refer the matter if it wasnt going to do so. He 
says if hed been told SCF wouldnt speak to the lenders concerned he would have 
terminated the conversation and taken it up with one of the other brokers at that point. He 
says SCF  made a representation that led me to believe that they would speak directly 
with the lenders
In effect, Mr Z is saying this is a mistaken statement of facts; a misrepresentation. When 
were looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the 
consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We 
dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given (that is, SCF wouldnt be discussing the case with 
the lender and trying to press them to agree it), Mr Z would have been told two days earlier 
than he was that SCF couldnt help him and he could then have gone to the other broker to 
obtain the loan. Mr Z could never have been in the position where he could obtain the loan 
he wanted whilst only paying SCFs lower broker fee. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied, on balance, SCF did nothing wrong here as it 
simply said it couldnt help Mr Z and didnt charge him any fees.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman