DRN-3146367
The complaint
Mr P complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited reviewed his Pockit account and sent 
money back to source rather than releasing it to him. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
In September 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Ps account while it carried out a review. As part of 
the review Pockit asked Mr P to provide proof of his identification, address and source of 
funds for recent payments into his account. 
Mr P provided Pockit with the documents theyd requested. He also explained that he used 
his account to receive his wages and benefits. He said that his balance of just over £3,200 
consisted of a benefit payment hed received of just over £800 from DWP as hed lost his 
job. And money that his cousin had lent to him to buy a car.
Over the following months, Mr P sent emails to Pockit to try and get access to the money in 
his account and to complain about how long Pockits review was taking. In response, Pockit 
asked Mr P to provide duplicate information as the documents Mr P had provided hadnt 
been passed on to the department reviewing his account. Mr P didnt hear from Pockit again 
until July 2021, when Pockit told him it was closing his account and sending the money in his 
account back to source. 
Mr P complained to our service. He said being without his money had made it difficult for him 
to manage financially. And hed been trying to find out what was happening with his account 
for more than a year. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and asked him 
for more information about the payments made into his account. Mr P provided a screen 
shot from DWP as evidence he was entitled to the universal credit payment. And a photo of 
a bank statement showing a payment of £3,200 being made to him.
The investigator looked at the information together with what Pockit had provided. He 
concluded that under the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account, Pockit were entitled to 
block and review Mr Ps account. And ask him for information. But he said the review had 
taken too long. He said Pockit should return Mr Ps DWP benefit payment to him along with 
8% simple interest. And pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused due to unnecessary delays. 
In response, Mr P said DWP had reached out for information from Pockit to try and locate 
the money it said it had returned, but it hadnt responded. So, he was still without his money. 
Pockit didnt respond to the investigators view. So, the investigator asked Pockit to show 
where the money had been sent to. But Pockit didnt provide any useful information. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to review. In October 2021, I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. 
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon to review Mr Ps account, Im satisfied 
that they were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed 
Mr Ps account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ps account. 
While Pockit are entitled to review an account, wed expect them to do so in a timely manner 
and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ps account in September 2020. Mr P 
provided them with the information theyd requested. I note too that he had to provide the 
same information again in December 2020, when Pockit told him that it hadnt been passed 
on. So, Mr P had to go to the trouble of resubmitting everything. But Mr Ps account 
remained blocked with no further contact about what was happening until September 2021.
I havent seen any information or evidence to satisfy me that Pockits actions are reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case. Whilst I recognise, they are entitled to review an account, I 
dont consider the account to be blocked with little or no contact for a year to be acceptable. 
Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt offered any explanation for why its 
review of Mr Ps account took so long to complete. 
I note from the information Pockit has provided that Mr P appears to have complied with its 
requests for information relatively promptly. And I can see that Mr P wrote several emails to 
Pockit to try and find out what he needed to do to move things along. In response, Pockit 
said it was reviewing his account. From what Ive seen this doesnt appear to be an overly 
complicated matter. I cant see that Pockit asked Mr P to provide further information and 
Pockit hasnt set out what (if anything) it was doing for a year. So, in the absence of any 
explanation from Pockit, Im not satisfied Pockit completed its review in a timely manner and 
treated Mr P fairly. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay Mr P £100 compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused to him.
Pockit sent the remaining balance of Mr Ps account back to source. This ensures the funds 
are sent back to the correct person or organisation. Pockit has told us that Mr Ps funds were 
sent back to source in September 2021, I find this to be a long time. Mr P has also said that 
DWP is chasing Pockit to try and locate the funds. And despite being asked by the 
investigator, Pockit hasnt provided any evidence to confirm Mr Ps benefit money has been 
returned to DWP. Mr P says he is still without the money. I havent seen anything to suggest 
Mr P isnt entitled to the benefit money. And therefore, I think the delay in returning the 
money had a direct impact on Mr P. 
Ive also considered Mr Ps individual circumstances. While I appreciate Pockit are entitled to 
block accounts while carrying out a review, its usually reasonable that a customer still has 
access to their benefit money. Mr P made Pockit aware of his difficulties and that he was 
struggling financially as hed lost his job. But I havent seen anything to suggest Pockit 
reached out to him or acknowledged he maybe in a vulnerable position. Because of this, I 
think Pockit should pay Mr P £75 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused 
to him.
Im aware that Pockit returned an additional credit Mr P received into his account in early 
September 2020. Mr P has said that the money was from his cousin so that he could buy a 
car. I know Mr P has provided the investigator with evidence about the source of funds. But 
Im not satisfied that this shows Mr P is entitled to the money in his account  I say this because the screen shots of the statement hes given us dont show the origin of the funds 
or the name of the account. So, like the investigator, I agree this was the right action in the 
circumstances.
Pockit didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr P didnt have any further information to 
add. But pointed out that he could have provided more information about his cousins 
account if hed been asked. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go 
ahead and issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view to partly uphold the complaint for the same reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint. To put things right Wirecard 
Card Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr P £175 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and return Mr Ps benefit money
Pay Mr P 8% simple interest on the benefit money he shouldve had access to from 
28 September 2020 until the date of the funds being released back to source
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman