DRN-3946399
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service she received when she made a claim under her 
HomeCare insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
What happened
Miss M has HomeCare cover with British Gas and has done for a number of years. The 
policy covers the boiler, controls and central heating including an annual service, plus 
repairs to plumbing, drains, and home electrics.  
Miss M says British Gas didnt service her boiler correctly and then in September 2021 her 
boiler stopped working. 
So she contacted British Gas who said she wasnt insured for a boiler replacement. And it 
provided her with a quote to replace the boiler. When she complained British Gas said she 
should have read the terms and conditions of the policy. Miss M has said she has some 
difficulties reading and understanding things. 
Miss M says she was left without heating in the winter and was told to boil a kettle to bath 
the children. Miss M said she cancelled her insurance and asked for her insurance 
premiums back.
British Gas refused to replace the boiler
Since British Gas refused to replace the boiler Miss M says she was forced to borrow money 
from family and friends in order to replace it herself. Miss M wants British Gas to reimburse 
her for the premiums she paid over the years thinking she had boiler replacement cover. 
Miss M complained to British Gas. British Gas said the terms and conditions of the policy 
confirm it doesnt replace boilers which are over 7 years old and Miss Ms boiler is over 20 
years old. British Gas paid Miss M £105 as a goodwill gesture. 
Miss M wasnt happy with the response she received from British Gas and so referred her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigation
Our investigator reviewed what had happened for Miss M. She said she had looked at the 
log of callouts to Miss M and couldnt see any evidence it had refused to repair the boiler. 
She also said British Gas stated it wouldnt replace the boiler since it was 20 years old and 
thats within the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The investigator also said the goodwill gesture from British Gas was generous in the 
circumstances. And so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators outcome and so the matter has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to her. Ill explain why. 
Miss M would like British Gas to reimburse her for the cost of the premiums since she 
believed the policy covered a boiler replacement but it doesnt. 
Policy cover
Miss Ms policy says it provides cover for, unlimited repairs to your gas central heating 
system including boiler and controls and gas supply pipe. And I can see from British Gas 
notes that Miss M had contacted British Gas on a number of occasions to repair her boiler 
under the policy. 
The policy also provides for, boiler replacement if we cant repair it and its less than 7 years 
old (or less than 10 years if we installed it and have covered it ever since).  Miss Ms boiler 
couldnt be repaired, and was over ten years old, and so British Gas didnt need to contribute 
towards the replacement boiler under the terms of the policy.  
Renewal documentation
From what Ive seen Miss Ms renewal documentation confirmed that her boiler manufacturer 
stopped making this boiler a while ago. And noted that some parts were difficult to source. 
At the bottom of the final page of the policy document for the 2018 renewal there is a section 
called Important information which details the boilers make and model. It explains the 
manufacturer stopped making her particular model of boiler a while ago. The policy says; 
this means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but well do our best to 
keep it running for as long as possible. In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may 
be able to get a refund back dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed 
your agreement. 
British Gas werent aware of Miss Ms dyslexia and says it doesnt have any vulnerabilities 
listed for Miss M. So I cant say it did anything wrong in not offering any additional support 
since it wasnt aware there were any difficulties. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss M. But, having considered everything, I think 
the steps British Gas has already taken to put things right before Miss M came to our service 
were fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 Kiran Clair
Ombudsman