DRN-3278544
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about delays and errors in the handling of a property insurance 
claim by Aviva Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D have a property owners insurance policy underwritten by Aviva.
They first made a claim relating to subsidence at their property in 2009. There is a long and 
complex history to this matter, but I dont intend to set out all the facts in detail given that 
both parties are well aware of the situation.
Suffice to say that repairs were carried out in 2010 and again in 2015. And then in 2018, 
Mr D and Mrs D contacted Aviva again because of on-going subsidence damage to their 
property.
Mr D and Mrs D have complained to Aviva on several occasions about their handling of the 
claim and delays in carrying out the necessary repairs.
We dealt with complaints subsequently brought to us by Mr D and Mrs D in 2019 and in early 
2021. The outcome was that we awarded £2,500 in compensation to Mr D and Mrs D. And 
we required Aviva to progress the repair works.
Aviva then promised Mr D and Mrs D that the works would be completed in May 2021. But 
when Mr D and Mrs D moved back to their property at that point, they discovered the works 
were in fact far from complete.
So, Mr D and Mrs D made a further complaint to Aviva, in June 2021. This was around the 
failure to complete the works satisfactorily and the behaviour of Avivas contractors whilst the 
repairs were being carried out.
Aviva provided their final response to that complaint in August 2021, thanking Mr D and 
Mrs D for bringing matters to their attention, but stating that the repair works were now back 
on track.
Mr D and Mrs D werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us, in 
September 2021. Our investigator looked into and thought Aviva hadnt treated Mr D and 
Mrs D fairly and reasonably.
She said Aviva should pay a further £2,000 in compensation to Mr D and Mrs D. And that 
they should: appoint someone to oversee the works; ensure a planning application for a 
replacement window was submitted in a timely manner; complete the works by March 2022; 
provide alternative accommodation for Mr D and Mrs D whilst the works were completed; 
and pay for an independent surveyor to sign off the works on completion.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be absolutely clear at the outset about what I can  and cant - deal with in this 
decision.
First of all, Mr D and Mrs D have had a very long period  since 2009 - dealing with the 
issues with their property. I am very sorry theyve had that experience. It must have been 
extraordinarily stressful, not to say inconvenient too.
But in early 2021, we concluded dealing with a series of complaints about Avivas actions or 
inactions before that time. And we awarded what we thought was fair and reasonable 
compensation up to that point. 
So, Im not going to compensate Mr D and Mrs D again for what the trouble and upset they 
suffered due to Avivas errors and omissions up to early 2021. That would clearly be 
inappropriate. I can only consider whats happened since around May 2021, when Aviva 
undertook to have the repairs completed.
The rules which govern our service, which are set out by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) also say that we cant look into a complaint unless the business the complaint is about 
has had an opportunity to put things right for their customer themselves.
Mr D and Mrs D complained to Aviva in June 2021  and then brought that complaint to us 
when they were dissatisfied with Avivas response. Any delays or errors on Avivas part after 
that time arent things that I can legitimately consider in this decision. Because Aviva havent 
yet had an opportunity to put things right themselves.
So, in a nutshell, what I can look at here is the events of May and June 2021. Any 
compensation we award will cover only that period (up to the date Mr D and Mrs D made 
their complaint to Aviva). If Mr D and Mrs D think Aviva have failed them after that date, they 
are entitled to make a further complaint to Aviva  and then to us, if they arent satisfied with 
the outcome.
I wanted to make this all absolutely clear in case Mr D and Mrs D are moved in future to 
make a further complaint about any on-going delays and/or other issues. Aviva shouldnt 
assume that any award made as part of this decision covers Mr D and Mrs Ds trouble and 
upset up to the date of this decision.
When I look at the relevant period  May and June 2021  I can see that Mr D and Mrs D 
had their expectations dashed about the completion of the long-running repairs promised for 
May 2021. Thats when Aviva undertook that the works would be completed. 
Aviva now clearly acknowledge that the works were not in fact completed by that time  
indeed, theyve agreed quite an extensive schedule of further works with Mr D and Mrs D 
after that time.
Given the background  and the promises made by Aviva  I think Mr D and Mrs D were 
severely let down in this respect. They must have been devastated to find the works not 
completed. That would have been exceptionally stressful. And it has caused them significant 
inconvenience, not least in the further efforts theyve had to put in to ensure the new scope 
of works covers off everything that still needs to be done.In response to our investigators view on this case, Aviva said they disagreed and asked for 
a final decision from an ombudsman. But they didnt put forward any arguments to support 
that position. In other words, they havent said why they disagreed with the suggested 
outcome.
Putting things right
Bearing in mind the severe disappointment, stress and inconvenience Mr D and Mrs D have 
experienced, I agree with our investigator that £2,000 is fair and reasonable compensation 
for their trouble and upset.
I also agree that Aviva should bring the works - originally promised to be completed by ay 
2021 - to a satisfactory conclusion at the earliest possible opportunity. Our investigator said 
the works should be complete by March 2022  which clearly pre-dates this final decision.
I dont think that timeline was unreasonable at the time. And I hope Aviva have now been 
able to progress things to a satisfactory conclusion. If not they should take all reasonable 
steps to complete the works as soon as possible.
I also agree that Aviva should have paid for alternative accommodation for whatever period 
Mr D and Mrs Ds home was uninhabitable.
And I agree that Aviva should pay for an independent surveyor to sign off the works when 
they are completed, so that Mr D and Mrs D will have some assurance that the agreed works 
have been completed to a satisfactory standard.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
Take whatever reasonable steps are necessary to complete the agreed works to 
Mr D and Mrs Ds property as soon as practically possible - if they are not already 
completed.
Pay any reasonable alternative accommodation costs Mr D and Mrs D incurred after 
May 2021 whilst their property was uninhabitable.
Pay for an independent surveyor to sign off the agreed works.
Pay Mr D and Mrs D £2,000 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman