DRN-4318018
Complaint
Mrs O complains that 247 Money (trading as 247 Money) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with her. 
Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In November 2019, 247 Money provided Mrs O with finance for a used car. The cash price of 
the vehicle was £7,999.00 and Mrs O applied for a loan to cover the entire amount. The loan 
had interest, fees and total charges of £3,898.78 and the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,888.78 was due to be repaid in 34 monthly instalments of £349.67. 
Mrs Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 247 
Money had done anything wrong or treated Mrs O unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs O disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Os complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Os complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
247 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that 247 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs O could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to 
her. And if the checks 247 Money carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
247 Money says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mrs O. During this assessment, Mrs O provided details of her monthly 
income and payslips to verify what shed declared. 
247 Money says it also carried out credit searches on Mrs O which showed some previous 
adverse credit information as well as current existing balances. But when the amount Mrs O 
already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mrs Os living expenses, based on what she 
said about paying 25% of the household bills, were deducted from her monthly income the 
monthly payments were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mrs O says she that the monthly payments for this hire-purchase 
agreement were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mrs O and 247 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 247 Money did obtain quite a bit of information from      
Mrs O and questioned what she said. So I dont think that it was simply a case of accepting 
what Mrs O said about her ability to afford the agreement at face value. 247 Moneys 
searches showed that Mrs O had had previous difficulties with credit. But Mrs O provided a 
reasonable and plausible explanation of what had happened. 
And most importantly Im satisfied that the information obtained does appear to indicate that 
when Mrs Os committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were 
deducted from her monthly income at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, 
to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Mrs O appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the information 247 Money obtained at the 
time. But 247 Money could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. 
And as Mrs O had provided sufficient evidence and explanations regarding her ability to do 
so, Im satisfied that 247 Money was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs O could afford to 
make her payments. Indeed this appears to be supported by the fact that Mrs O has said 
that only began to struggle once she had to pay for repairs to the vehicle.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that 247 Money didnt act 
unfairly towards Mrs O when it agreed to provide the funds and Im not upholding Mrs Os 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs O. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
I note that since Mrs O referred the complaint to us there has been some suggestion that 
she is unhappy with the vehicle that she purchased. But this isnt a complaint that she made 
to 247 Money. And as Im only able to look at matters once a respondent firm has had the 
opportunity to investigate, Mrs O needs to contact 247 Money about this in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman