DRN-2982613
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays by Scottish Widows Limited (SW) in cashing in his pension
policy.
What happened
At the end of April 2020 Mr S phoned SW to cash in his pension policy. But he had difficulty
getting through to the business so he sent an email the same day with his instructions.
SW didnt pick up the email and Mr S sent a letter to the business in early May. SW
eventually made contact with Mr S a few days later, and the policy was cashed in on 20
May. Mr S considered SW shouldve cashed in the policy sooner than it did. He said it
should pay compensation for the drop in value that occurred between the date he first tried
to contact the business and the date of payment.
SW accepted Mr S had difficulty contacting it and paid £50 for the inconvenience caused.
But it didnt consider it had unnecessarily delayed payment and wasnt willing to pay the
additional compensation Mr S was seeking.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He considered the policy
couldve been cashed in much sooner if SW had logged Mr Ss email sent on 30 April. He
noted that when SW confirmed instructions with Mr S, the policy was cashed on the same
day. Even allowing for difficulties created by the pandemic, the investigator considered the
process shouldve been completed by 11 May.
The investigator recommended SW should compensate Mr S by paying any difference in the
value of the plan if it had been cashed on 11 May, and the actual amount Mr S received
(plus annual interest of 8% simple).
The investigator was satisfied that £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused was
reasonable.
SW didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said its usual processing time was ten
to fifteen working days from receiving instructions, which was in line with general industry
standards. SW said that even though Mr S hadnt managed to make contact with it on 30
April, it had fast-tracked his request once instructions were confirmed and the process
completed within the industry timeframe.
SW asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional 
decision for the complaint on 5 August 2021 and said I didnt intend to uphold it. Details of 
my provisional findings are set out below:
SW had accepted Mr S had difficulty contacting it when he tried to give instructions 
on 30 April 2020. It explained that this was probably because of the difficulties 
created by the global pandemic, and it paid £50 for the inconvenience caused.
But SW said that even if Mr S had successfully contacted it that day, general industry
standards meant it had ten to fifteen working days to complete the process. The 
policy was cashed on 20 May which was within that timeframe. SW said that when it 
became aware of the difficulties Mr S had experienced it fast-tracked his request to 
complete it within the industry standard timescale.
Id thought carefully about what SW has said. I considered the ten to fifteen working 
day timeframe was reasonable, and in line with the length of time we would expect a 
business to complete this sort of process.
So I accepted that if Mr S had given instructions on 30 April, SW wouldve had until 
22 May to complete the process (allowing for the bank holiday that took place during 
the period). As the policy was encashed on 20 May, I wasnt persuaded that SW 
unnecessarily delayed Mr Ss payment. Which meant I didnt consider it needed to 
pay compensation, other than the £50 it had already paid for inconvenience.
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said, in summary, that irrespective of 
when the process eventually completed, the payment shouldve been made based on values 
on the date of his original instructions (30 April) or shortly afterwards. Mr S also said SWs 
annual accounts and directors report for 2020 said it had put in place exceptional 
arrangements for remote working so that customer service was maintained. He said the 
report didnt mention any failure of its customer service. 
SW didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr S has said about the date on which SW shouldve valued his fund for the 
purpose of making the payment. But Im not persuaded that because he gave instructions on 
30 April 2020, SW was obliged to use values on that date or the day afterwards.
As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the ten to fifteen working day 
timeframe to complete the process is reasonable. Im also satisfied that SWs process is not 
to use the date of initial instruction as the valuation date.  Depending on when the 
encashment takes place within the ten to fifteen working day timeframe, I consider its 
reasonable for SW to use values on the actual date of encashment, rather than the date of 
instructions.
So I remain of the view that SW didnt create any unnecessary delay in processing Mr Ss 
payment.
Ive also noted what Mr S has said about SWs customer service systems in response to the 
Covid-19 situation. I accept that because of the infrastructure SW has put in place, its 
unlikely there has been any systemic failure of SWs customer service. But I still think its 
likely there will have been some instances where customer service may not have been to 
SWs usual standard  as could happen on occasion before the complications created by 
Covid-19. So this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman