DRN-2403667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain they were given incorrect and misleading information by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) about a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M are premier account customers with RBS. Mrs M contacted their premier 
relationship manager as they were interested in taking out short term borrowing to finance 
the purchase of a property. Theyve said the intention was that the borrowing would be 
repaid following the sale of another property.
Mr and Mrs M say that their two relationship managers said, on separate occasions, that 
RBS would be able to provide the lending that they needed, over a short term. So, based on 
this, they went ahead with the purchase of the property at auction.
Mr and Mrs M then applied for a mortgage but were told by a mortgage adviser that RBS 
could not lend to them. This was because the minimum term that it would provide a 
mortgage for was three years  and Mr and Mrs M had been clear they didnt require 
borrowing for that long. So, it didnt have any products that suited Mr and Mrs Ms needs.
Mr and Mrs M complained to RBS about what had happened. They said theyd been misled 
into believing that RBS would be able to provide the lending they needed and had committed 
to the property purchase based on this. When it became apparent that RBS was unable to 
help, theyd had to make alternative arrangements which they said had caused them to incur 
significant additional costs.
RBS didnt think it had made an error. It was satisfied that its relationship managers had 
explained the minimum mortgage term available. So, while there may have been a 
misunderstanding, it didnt think it had provided incorrect information. And in terms of the 
application RBS felt it had been correct to say that it didnt have a product available that 
would meet Mr and Mrs Ms needs.
Mr and Mrs M asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our investigators looked 
at whatd happened. He said that he couldnt know what had been said during the meetings 
between the relationship managers and Mrs M. But on balance he didnt think he could fairly 
say that RBS had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion and said they felt that the relationship 
managers were being dishonest about what was discussed to cover for their mistakes. They 
were also concerned notes of the conversation had not been retained. So, they asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties seem to accept that meetings took place between Mrs M and her and Mr Ms 
relationship managers. And Im satisfied they did. And both parties acknowledge there were 
some discussions about borrowing. Where they disagree is on the extent of those 
discussions and what was said.
RBS no longer holds any notes relating to those meetings. Mr and Mrs M have said they 
think these should have been retained. It mightve been helpful if those notes were still 
available but as the parties disagree over the discussions, given the notes were taken by 
RBS it might well be they reflected its staffs understanding  which as I already know is 
different to Mrs Ms. And RBS is entitled to decide its policies when it comes to retaining 
information. 
Where information is limited, I have to look at the evidence that is available and decide what 
I think is most likely on the balance of probabilities. So, Ive thought carefully about what 
both parties have said. 
Mr and Mrs M say they only needed to borrow money over a short term. And they 
understood RBS could provide a mortgage over a term of approximately 6-12 months. 
RBS has said that an offset mortgage was initially discussed  as this provided the flexibility 
to make overpayments without incurring fees. But it says that the minimum term this would 
be provided for was three years and that its relationship managers made that clear.
Based on what Ive seen and heard I think there was likely a misunderstanding at that stage. 
But I dont think this was due to RBS providing intentionally mis-leading information. I think 
its likely that an offset mortgage was discussed as it could potentially have met some of Mr 
and Mrs Ms needs  as, if theyd been in a position to pay it off sooner, they couldve 
reduced the balance without incurring fees. I can understand why the relationship managers 
mightve talked about this as a potential solution. And Ive seen information to indicate those 
relationship managers did preliminary checks to look at whether this wouldve been 
affordable. So, I can understand why Mrs M mayve thought RBS could provide lending in 
the format she and Mr M wanted. But I havent seen anything that leads me to think RBS 
said at that point it could provide lending with a term shorter than three years  as this was 
outside of its policy. 
And importantly, Im conscious that these initial discussions did not involve a formal 
application for a mortgage. No offer of lending was made or confirmed and the application 
would always have been subject to review. When it was reviewed, by a mortgage adviser, 
whose role is different to that of a relationship manager, RBS concluded that the offset 
mortgage was not appropriate, as Mr and Mrs M did not want to borrow money for three 
years, and that it didnt have a suitable product available. And in the circumstances, I dont 
think RBS acted unreasonably in deciding this.
Mr and Mrs M has said that this left them in a difficult position having already paid a deposit 
in respect of the purchase of a property. But again, there was no formal offer of lending by 
RBS at that stage and any application wouldve been subject to a full review and could still 
have been declined  even if RBS were able to offer a mortgage that was more suited to 
Mr and Mrs Ms aims.
So overall, while I think there was likely some miscommunication during the initial 
discussions around borrowing, I dont think RBS provided intentionally misleading 
information. I dont think I can reasonably say that RBS made an error when a formal 
application was made. And I dont think RBS should be responsible for any costs Mr and Mrs M have had to pay as a result of it not being able to provide finance for the purchase of 
the property  as it had made no formal commitment to lend.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman