DRN-4287373
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice given by Inter-UK Financial Services Limited (Inter-UK) to 
switch to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest via a Discretionary Fund 
Manager (DFM). Mr Bs pension fund has fallen in value and Mr B says that Inter-UK is 
responsible for the losses hes suffered. 
What happened
Mr B says he was cold called by Inter-UK offering a pension review. A meeting at Mr Bs 
home took place. Mr B completed a fact find which included an attitude to risk questionnaire. 
Inter-UK produced a suitability report on 25 May 2018. It recorded that Mr B had pension 
savings of £46,987.13 with Aviva. Mr B had health issues which meant he wanted to keep 
his options open with regards to accessing his pension. He agreed and understood his 
attitude to risk score and he was a balanced investor (although Ive said more about that 
below). Inter-UK recommended that Mr B transfer his Aviva personal pension to a SIPP with 
Momentum which would allow him to access a Mixed Model Portfolio with SVS Securities plc 
(SVS) as DFM. Inter-UK would also provide an ongoing service to ensure the investments 
remained suitable for Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. 
On 16 June 2018 Mr B signed SVSs model portfolio SIPP application. It said hed be 
investing in SVSs Model Portfolio: Balanced. That was one of four portfolios set out: 
Cautious; Balanced; Growth and Aggressive Growth. Mr Bs SIPP with Momentum was 
opened in August 2018. On 13 September 2018 £49,103.80 was transferred from Aviva to 
the Momentum SIPP. Inter-UK took a fee of £1,473.11 on the transfer and Momentum was 
paid fees totalling £470. Ongoing advice fees of 1% pa were also paid to Inter-UK. On 20 
December 2018 Momentum transferred £46,970.69 to SVS for investment.
In August 2019 Special Administrators were appointed to SVS because of concerns on the 
part of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), about the assets in which SVS 
invested its clients money. SVS subsequently entered into liquidation. 
By 2020 the value of Mr Bs portfolio had fallen to under £17,000. With assistance from his 
representative, Mr B complained to Inter-UK on 31 August 2022 that the switch to the SIPP 
was unsuitable. Amongst other things, it was unnecessary as his existing Aviva pension had 
adequate investment flexibility and was well diversified. The switch had generated 
disproportionately high fees which werent justified by likely increased returns. Any concern 
about European investments couldve been addressed by fund changes to Mr Bs existing 
pension.  
About the portfolio with SVS, Mr Bs representative said it included a high weighting of long 
term and illiquid fixed interest holdings which shouldnt have been promoted to Mr B. They 
were in specialist and non mainstream sectors and carried a high default risk. There was 
also a significant level of investment in SmallCap shares. Prior to Momentum acting on Inter-
UKs instruction to invest with SVS, thered been an exchange of emails between Inter-UK 
and Momentum where the latter had expressed concerns about SVSs administration 
systems, communications and investment selections. But Inter-UK instructed Momentum to 
proceed with investing with SVS. Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his 
existing Aviva scheme but to invest in a low risk, well diversified portfolio within that pension. 
But for Inter-UKs advice Mr B wouldve remained with Aviva. 
I havent seen that Inter-UK issued any final response.  
Mr B referred his complaint to us in December 2022. We contacted Inter-UK about the 
complaint and it sent us its business file. We asked several times for a copy of the final 
response letter and Inter-UKs comments about the complaint but Inter-UK didnt respond. 
The investigator upheld the complaint. He said it was Inter-UKs responsibility to carry out 
research on any DFM recommended, including looking into the current breakdown of assets 
in any proposed model portfolio and how the DFM managed those assets. As a minimum, 
Inter-UK shouldve looked at the SVS portfolio and what was in it, prior to recommending 
that Mr B invest and after the investment was made. Had Inter-UK done so, it wouldve been 
clear that the portfolio and its holdings werent suitable for Mr B, given his attitude to risk. 
Inter-UK had a duty to provide suitable advice and ongoing oversight of Mr Bs investments. 
That hadnt happened and Mr B had suffered a considerable loss. The investigator set out 
how Inter-UK needed to redress Mr B. 
Inter-UK didnt respond to the investigators view. We explained that the complaint would be 
referred to an ombudsman. We made several attempts to contact Inter-UK but without 
success.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding the complaint and in the main for the same reasons as the 
investigator. Essentially I agree that Inter-UK had a responsibility to undertake due diligence 
on any DFM recommended, including looking into the breakdown of the assets in any 
proposed model portfolio and making sure the risk profile was in line with that of the investor. 
Here the portfolio was too high risk for a balanced investor such as Mr B and was unsuitable 
for him. The SIPP was recommended because it allowed Mr B to access the services of a 
DFM. But, as I dont think a DFM was necessary, it follows that the SIPP wasnt either. 
As Inter-UK hasnt responded to our request for comments, I dont know exactly what, if any, 
due diligence Inter-UK carried out on SVS and its model portfolios, including the one in 
which Mr B was invested. And Im not sure exactly how Mr Bs portfolio was made up at the 
outset. Inter-UKs suitability letter doesnt include a breakdown and refers to SVSs Mixed 
Model Portfolio. But SVSs application form says Mr B would be investing in SVSs Balanced 
Model Portfolio. Im not sure if the two are the same. 
I also find the attitude to risk questionnaire that Mr B completed somewhat confusing. I 
recognise he signed it and that the results were set out in the suitability report which said the 
outcome had been discussed with Mr B and he understood the scoring. Mr B also signed the 
suitability report. But I dont think the position was clear. The risk questionnaire says Mr Bs 
answers to the questions posed would lead to one of five portfolios: Cautious; Cautious to 
Balanced; Balanced; Balanced to Adventurous; and Adventurous. Mr Bs score (46) 
indicated a Balanced portfolio (applicable to a score of 41  52 points). But on the next page 
the five categories dont correlate to that and different scores are assigned. The Balanced 
category applies to a score of 19  40 points and a score of 46 points is in the Balanced to 
Adventurous category (41  to 52 points). 
The Balanced description says:A Medium Risk Investor is looking for a balance of risk and reward seeking higher returns 
than those available from a high street deposit account and willing to accept a certain 
amount of fluctuation in the value of their investments as a result. Medium risk investors are 
happy to invest in a mixed portfolio consisting of global equity, property and fixed interest 
securities. Their investment objective is to seek to generate moderate growth through a 
combination of capital returns and the accumulation of income over the medium to long 
term.
 
The Balanced to Adventurous description says:
A high medium investor is willing to accept a real possibility of capital loss, and significant 
fluctuations in value. High Medium risk investors are comfortable investing substantial parts 
of their portfolio in major overseas markets. Their investment objective is to seek to generate 
capital growth over the long term. 
So, on the one hand, Mr B had been assessed as a Balanced investor but that had then 
become Balanced to Adventurous. I think the descriptions show theres a fairly significant 
difference between the two categories. Ive not seen anything to indicate that Mr B was 
prepared to accept any significant capital loss. Even if he was willing I dont think his 
financial position and circumstances were such that he could afford, or shouldve been 
advised, to take that degree of risk. As the suitability letter noted it wasnt just about how 
much risk Mr B was willing to take but more importantly about how much risk he could afford 
to take. Ive proceeded on the basis that Mr B was a Balanced investor and that Inter-UKs 
recommendations needed to be suitable for that type of investor as described. 
Mr Bs existing pension was with a major provider and offered a wide range of funds. Theres 
no indication from the suitability letter as to why it might no longer be suitable for him. If, as 
Mr B recalls, there was some suggestion that his exposure to European investments might, 
post Brexit, be unsuitable, that couldve been remedied by switching funds. And from the 
breakdown of the funds in which Mr B was invested with Aviva Ive seen it seems that only a 
small percentage of Mr Bs fund had any European element. Given the modest size of Mr Bs 
fund I dont think he had any real need for a DFM service. 
Mr B says hes received minimal information from SVS and Momentum. He did get a 
statement issued by the Special Administrators on 18 May 2020. Mr Bs representative says 
the statement shows that the portfolio included a high weighting of long term, illiquid fixed 
term holdings, including Angelfish plc preference shares, Corporate Finance Bonds Limited, 
Ingard Property Bonds and Queros Capital Partners plc. There was also a significant 
element of investment in SmallCap shares.  
The Corporate Finance Bonds Limited holdings made up a substantial element of the 
portfolio. Fixed interest investments in bonds might sometimes be regarded as lower risk  
for example, most UK government bonds (and those of other financially stable countries) are 
considered low risk as its unlikely that the government will default on payments due to 
investors. So investors are virtually guaranteed to get the fixed interest payments and their 
money back at the maturity date. But corporate bonds are riskier. The level of risk will 
depend on the issuing company. Bonds issued by a well known, established and profitable 
company will be regarded as less risky than those issued by, say, a smaller company in an 
emerging market. Riskier bonds may offer higher potential returns but with an increased risk 
of investors not getting their money back. 
Ive mentioned above the FCAs concerns about SVS and which led the FCA to investigate 
and identify serious issues about the way in which SVS was operating. It seems the FCAs 
concerns centred on the high exposure to corporate bonds issued by Corporate Finance Bonds Limited within SVSs model portfolios and which led the FCA to issue a First 
Supervisory Notice on 2 August 2019. It sets out the results of the FCAs investigations and 
enquiries and the precise nature of the FCAs concerns about the bonds and which included 
clear conflicts of interest between SVS and the seller of the bonds. 
I think, if Inter-UK had undertaken proper due diligence on SVS and the model portfolio, 
Inter-UK wouldve realised that the bonds were likely to be unsuitable for Mr B and that they 
didnt provide the level of security and reduced risk that other types of fixed interest 
investments wouldve done. I think Mr B was exactly the type of investor that the FCA was 
worried about and for whom the inclusion in the model portfolio of this type and proportion of 
fixed interest investment was unsuitable. 
I think other investments were unsuitable too. Mr B also had a holding in Angelfish 
Investments plc Preference Shares. Ive seen some literature which includes the following: 
The Preference Shares are complex financial instruments. Sophisticated institutional 
investors generally do not purchase complex financial instruments as stand-alone 
investments. They purchase complex financial instruments as a way to reduce risk or 
enhance yield with an understood, measured, appropriate addition of risk to their overall 
portfolios. A potential investor should only invest in the Preference Shares if they have the 
expertise (either alone or with a financial adviser) to evaluate how the Preference Shares will 
perform under changing conditions, the resulting effects on the value of the Preference 
Shares and the impact this investment will have on the potential investors overall investment 
portfolio.
Its clear that the investment was specialist and designed for experienced investors whereas 
Mr B was an ordinary retail investor with limited investment experience. Again the May 2020 
statement shows that Mr Bs holding in Angelfish Investments plc had been lost. 
Mr Bs portfolio also included a significant proportion of equities, with the investments in 
smaller or less established companies  SmallCap shares. Such stocks can be a good 
investment opportunity as they can have the potential for growth and so may deliver a better 
return. But they tend to be volatile and riskier than shares in larger (blue chip) companies 
which are better known and have more of a track record. So I dont think any significant level 
of investment in this type of holdings was suitable for Mr B. And, viewed alongside the rest of 
the portfolio, it seems there was a lack of diversification and balance which increased the 
risk further. 
Overall I dont think the portfolio was suitable for an investor in Mr Bs circumstances and 
who wanted to take a medium or balanced investment approach. At the time of the advice 
Mr B was aged 57 and employed full time earning around £16,000 pa. He owned his own 
home subject to a mortgage. He was a member of his employers pension scheme. He had 
no savings or investments, aside from his pension fund with Aviva. That pension was 
invested across a range of funds. I think the overall risk level was probably on the low side of 
medium. The new SVS portfolio was higher risk. I think it was too high risk even if Mr Bs 
membership of his employers statutory scheme meant he could afford to take some degree 
of risk with his other pension fund. 
The May 2020 statement showed the total value of Mr Bs SVS portfolio was £16,369.52 
against £46,970.69 which had been transferred to SVSs management in December 2018. 
Thats a fall in value of about 65% in some two and a half years and which is more than 
would be expected for a medium risk portfolio even during a period of stock market volatility 
and would tend to confirm the portfolio was too high risk. I note that there was also correspondence between Inter-UK and Momentum before the bulk 
of Mr Bs pension fund was passed to SVS for investment. I think there were clear warning 
signs about SVS which Inter-UK seems to have ignored.  
I recognise that Inter-UK wasnt the only regulated business involved. SVS was regulated 
too and it seems that its part in the matter has contributed to Mr Bs losses. But Im only 
considering the complaint against Inter-UK. In my view, Inter-UK failed to undertake any or 
sufficient due diligence and was unaware that SVSs portfolio was too high risk for Mr B. And 
I dont see that Mr B needed a SIPP or to be able to access a DFM service. But for Inter-
UKs unsuitable advice in recommending the SIPP and SVS as DFM, Mr B wouldnt have 
suffered the losses he did. So Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to say that Inter-UK 
should compensate Mr B in full for his losses. I think without Inter-UKs advice Mr B wouldve 
remained with his existing provider. 
Ive adopted in the main the redress set out by the investigator and which allows for the 
possibility that Aviva might be unable to provide a notional fund value. Ive also said that 
redress should be based on the transfer value paid into the SIPP. As Ive said I dont see 
that Mr B had any need for a SIPP or a DFM service. The investigator also suggested Inter-
UKs fees should be repaid. My understanding is that fees were deducted from Mr Bs fund 
and not paid by him direct. The redress Ive set out takes into account what Mr Bs fund 
wouldve been worth if it had remained with his existing provider. So fees are taken into 
account and no separate award is required. Thats with the exception of future SIPP fees if 
the SIPP cant be wound up because some of the investments are illiquid. 
Putting things right 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position hed probably be in now if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr B wouldve 
remained with his previous provider. But I cant be sure a notional value will be obtainable for 
what Mr Bs previous pension wouldve been worth. So Ive included a benchmark as an 
alternative and if a notional value cant be obtained. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is 
fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr B's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested. 
To compensate Mr M fairly Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should: 
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. 
If theres a loss, it should be paid into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Inter-UK Financial Services Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it wouldve have provided a taxable income. So the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mr B is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr B wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Investment/Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
(start 
date) To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Momentum SIPP/ 
SVS Securities 
portfolioSome 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
provider/ 
FTSE UK 
Private
Investors 
Income 
Total Return 
IndexDate of 
transfer to 
SIPP Date of 
settlement Not 
applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, any investment in the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. Inter-UK Financial Services 
Limited should take ownership of any illiquid investments within the portfolio by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount paid should be included 
in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Inter-UK Financial Services Limited is unable to purchase any illiquid investment the value 
of that investment should be assumed to be nil when arriving at the actual value of the 
portfolio. Inter-UK Financial Services Limited may wish to require that Mr B provides an 
undertaking to pay to Inter-UK Financial Services Limited any amount he may receive from 
that investment in the future. The undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would 
be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Inter-UK Financial Services 
Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
notional value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should request that the previous provider 
calculates this value. 
Any additional sum paid in should be added to the notional value calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal should be deducted from the notional value
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those payments are totalled and that figure deducted at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Inter-UK Financial Services 
Limited will need to determine a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this 
benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above 
also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead 
of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.The SIPP and the SVS portfolio only exist because of the illiquid assets. In order for the 
SIPP and portfolio to be closed and further fees prevented from being charged, those 
investments need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Inter-UK 
Financial Services Limited taking over any illiquid investments in the portfolio. Or this is 
something that Mr B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take. Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If 
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited is unable to purchase any illiquid investments, and to 
provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited pays 
Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using 
the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties 
to arrange for the SIPP and SVS portfolio to be closed. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Inter-UK Financial Services Limited must redress Mr B as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman