DRN-3810769
The complaint
Mr M says ReAssure Limited (RL) took over the administration of his two pensions (the 
pensions) in 2020 and since then he has faced problems that he did not previously have 
with Legal & General (L&G), the previous provider. In the main, he says:
The pensions were previously stakeholder pensions, but RL changed them to 
personal pensions without his consent. RL also merged both pensions into one, 
without his consent. It then sent him, late, combined valuations despite his request 
for separate valuations. [issue 1]
On 17 September 2020 RL called him from a withheld telephone number and it did 
so outside business hours. It queried where he would like his contribution cheque 
payment to be invested, but there was a pre-existing arrangement in this respect 
which it should have followed. RLs enquiry caused an undue delay in processing the 
cheque and he objected/objects to RLs manner of contact. [issue 2]
On 24 September 2020, and thereafter, he asked RL for policy and unit statements 
for his pensions, on each occasion it took over 45 days for them to be sent and the 
initial statements were incorrect. [issue 3]
The funding arrangement, and his preference, was to make contributions into the 
pensions by cheque, but RL unilaterally tried to change that into a direct debit/bank 
transfer arrangement. [issue 4]
He repeatedly found it difficult to get through to RL by telephone, its promises to call 
him back were never kept and it mishandled his complaints and did not even discuss 
them with him over the telephone. [issue 5]
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint issues and she mainly found as follows:
RL accepts that it made some errors (including some delayed correspondence) in its 
service provision to Mr M during the relevant times. It previously offered him £100 
compensation for this but has since increased its offer to £300. £300 is a fair amount 
of compensation for the inconvenience he was caused in these respects. It is in line 
with what our service would likely award in cases like his and she will not ask RL to 
pay more. 
Issue 1  Available documentary evidence is that both pensions are personal 
pensions, one with protected rights and the other without. If Mr M maintains that they 
are stakeholder pensions he will need to produce evidence to that effect. Both 
pensions remain separate, RL has explained to him that it has merged them only in 
terms of the correspondence and valuations it sends out. RL has reasonable 
discretion to determine how it generally communicates with its customers. It has also 
said separate communications can be requested and issued. However, given his 
experience with the unit statements, it is understandable that Mr M might not believe 
this.
Issue 2  It is also understandable that Mr M was frustrated that the pre-existing 
investment arrangement for his contributions was not followed without him being 
contacted and asked by RL. However, it was reasonable for RL to seek confirmation 
from him in the circumstances, instead of acting on an assumption. This service 
would usually expect that from a firm, especially if it is unsure about a matter. The 
settings for its call to Mr M on 17 September was defined by its telephone system, it 
had reasonable discretion over those settings and the call happened at 5.40pm, only 
10 minutes after the end of its business hours at 5.30pm. This was not an 
unreasonable time of the day.
Issue 3  RL concedes the delay in sending the unit statements and that they were 
not sent separately for each pension. Its compensation offer covers this issue 
(including the inconvenience caused by the unit statements that were not sent upon 
Mr Ms request and by his efforts in chasing).
Issue 4  Mr M never instructed or discussed the setting up of a direct debit 
arrangement with RL It is believable that he thought such an arrangement had been 
set up at the time of his complaint, but RL had not done that and he continued to 
make his contributions by cheque.
Issue 5  Mr M should be compensated for the inconvenience he faced in chasing RL 
over the telephone and for the call backs it promised but did not make. RLs 
compensation offer covers this too. With regards to its handling of his complaint, 
complaint handling is not a regulated activity so comment cannot be given on that.
The investigator and Mr M discussed her findings. The notes of that discussion show that he 
disagreed with her conclusion and confirmed that he had received only £200 compensation 
(two cheques for £100) from RL, not £300. He said he was minded to take the case to court, 
that he maintains the pensions were stakeholder pensions and were changed by RL without 
notice to him and that there have been more statement errors by RL. He then spoke to an 
Ombudsman and said he would like a final decision on the case. He also said he would be 
making final submissions within the fortnight that followed. The case was then referred to 
me. I noted that the final submissions he mentioned to the other Ombudsman did not appear 
to have been made, so the investigator contacted Mr M for these and he mainly made the 
following points  he was introduced to the stakeholder pensions in 2016; he would usually 
make his contributions and receive a rebate at the end of the month; and when RL took over 
the pensions it changed them into personal pensions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons she gave. I do not uphold the complaint because, on balance, I 
consider that RL has sufficiently conceded and offered compensation for its wrongdoings. 
With regards to compensation, I have reached this decision on the basis that RL maintains 
its readiness to pay Mr M a total of £300 compensation and, by implication, its readiness to 
pay any outstanding balance of this compensation that has yet to be made to him. He is due 
this total compensation because RL accepts  as it should  responsibility for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him in the service failure experiences he had in issue 3 and, 
specifically with regards to RLs telephone service, in issue 5. Considering the impact of 
such trouble and inconvenience upon him, with regards to delayed correspondence he had 
to chase, some of that correspondence being incorrect or unsent and the frustration he 
would have experienced with RLs telephone service, I am satisfied that £300 is reasonable 
compensation.
The other part of issue 5 relates to RLs complaint handling. As the investigator said, 
complaint handling is not a regulated activity. Our jurisdiction covers complaints about 
regulated activities. In some cases, a complaint might be upheld and the complaints 
mishandling by the firm might be found to have added to the substantive problem (about a 
regulated activity) or partly delayed its resolution. In such cases, both aspects might be 
considered in that particular context. However, I do not consider this applies to Mr Ms case. 
RL issued formal complaint responses to him in November and December 2020, and I do 
not consider that its complaint handling/process correlated to the substantive issues he 
complained about.
Like the investigator, I have not seen evidence to support the upholding of issue 1. I 
acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling in insisting that the pensions were stakeholder 
pensions, but my task is to determine matters on the balance of evidence, and available 
evidence is that they were/are personal pensions. Aside from the statement he recently 
made, in which he repeated his stance, it does not appear that he met the investigators 
invitation to provide supporting documents. 
It is not disputed that the pensions were merged, but RL explained to Mr M in its 2020 
complaint responses that this was essentially for correspondence related reasons and that 
this did not affect the pensions in any meaningful way. Its explanations included  
Your policies have been merged under one policy but are still administered and invested 
separately  you are still able to deal with them as two separate policies and take benefits 
separately. You mentioned in our call that the policies cannot be merged due to the charges, 
however the charges are still taken separately out of each policy and this will not affect either 
policy.
I understand your policies being combined has caused you some concern, however please 
be assured that you wont be disadvantaged as a result of this  if you do choose to transfer 
your policies to another provider, or if you chose to take your benefits, you will still be able to 
deal with these as separate policies.
I have not seen evidence to conflict with the above explanations and assurances, so I do not 
consider that the pensions were meaningfully affected by RLs merging.
I share the investigators finding and reasoning on issue 2. I endorse the same. I 
summarised both in the previous section and I do not consider that there is more that needs 
to be added to the finding. I also have not seen evidence to call the reasoning into question. 
Even if receipt of RLs call was considered inconvenient by Mr M at the relevant time, I am 
satisfied that such inconvenience would likely have been minimal and that RLs £300 
compensation offer would cater for that too. 
With regards to issue 4, available evidence is that no direct debit arrangement was ever 
activated (and live) in this case. Indeed, no such arrangement would have been possible 
without Mr Ms participation, and it is clear that did not happen. RL accepts that it sent a 
letter to him suggesting the arrangement, for the sake of ease, but nothing in this respect 
was ever actioned so I do not find that any harm was done.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman