DRN-4145893
The complaint
Ms D and Mr P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Scottish Widows Bank) made 
errors which meant they missed out on the interest rate product they wanted. Mr P has dealt 
with the complaint. He asks that Lloyds honours the lower interest rate product they wanted. 
He also complains about the way Lloyds dealt with their complaint.
What happened
Ms D and Mr P have an interest-only offset mortgage with Lloyds. Their interest rate product 
was due to expire on 31 August 2022. In mid-April 2022 Mr P and their mortgage broker 
contacted Lloyds about taking out a new product. 
Mr P says Lloyds gave him and his broker inconsistent information over several weeks about 
the earliest date they could secure a new product. On 3 May 2022, Mr P was told this was 
the earliest date he could secure a new product. Mr P says he called his broker immediately 
and asked him to apply for the 2.13% fixed interest rate product theyd chosen. However, 
Lloyds had already withdrawn the product.
Mr P raised a complaint. He says the complaint handler was rude and didnt consider the 
issues and evidence properly. Mr P says he was led to believe there was a possibility theyd 
be able to take out the 2.13% product. He says by the time they were told this wasnt the 
case, it was too late to secure a more competitive rate elsewhere.  
Our investigator said it wasnt fair to require Lloyds to apply the 2.13% product as Mr P and 
Ms D couldnt have applied for this. He said while Lloyds gave Mr P incorrect information 
about when hed be able to apply for a new product, the £20 compensation it paid was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first be clear about the basis on which we award compensation. If I find that Lloyds 
made an error, I can require it to put matters right. When doing so, I have to consider what 
the effect of any error was on Ms D and Mr P  if it caused them financial loss, distress or 
inconvenience. Mr P says they will pay more interest over the next five years due to missing 
out on the interest rate product they wanted. While thats likely to be the case, I need to 
decide whether this financial loss resulted from an error by Lloyds.
I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Lloyds did make errors. But these errors arent the reason Mr P and Ms D didnt secure the 
2.13% interest rate product they wanted.
The earliest date that Mr P and Ms D could have secured a new product was 3 May 2022. 
The 2.13% product they wanted was withdrawn on 2 May 2022. So even if Lloyds had made 
no errors at all, Mr P and Mrs D would not have been able to take out this product. 
Mr P says Lloyds should honour the 2.13% product because when his broker called Lloyds 
on 3 May 2022 they discussed the rate and Lloyds didnt tell the broker the rate had been 
withdrawn. While it must have been frustrating not to have been told the product wasnt 
available straight away, Mr P and Ms D didnt miss out on the product because of this. They 
couldnt take out the product because it was withdrawn before they were able to apply for it. 
When Mr P raised a complaint, he said was concerned that rates might increase during the 
complaints process. Lloyds told him the call recordings would be listened to. It said if his 
complaint was upheld it could honour the rate, and this was a likely outcome if the broker 
had been told they could definitely have that rate. I appreciate that Mr P was hoping this 
would be the outcome of his complaint. But Lloyds didnt uphold this part of his complaint. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Lloyds to honour the 
lower interest rate product. This would still be the case if Lloyds had given Mr P or the broker 
incorrect information that suggested theyd be able to apply for the product. Mr P and Ms D 
didnt miss out on the 2.13% product because of an error by Lloyds or because it didnt give 
them clear information. They couldnt take out the product because it was withdrawn before 
they were able to apply for it. 
Lloyds did make some errors. Mr P contacted Lloyds in mid-April 2022 to ask when he could 
apply for and secure a new product. Between mid-April and early May 2022 Lloyds gave 
Mr P and the broker inconsistent information about this on several occasions. 
This caused inconvenience and frustration. But I dont think it caused Mr P and Ms D 
financial loss. Mr P was given correct information on 3 May 2022  the first day they were 
able to apply for a new product. They were able to apply for a new product before their 
product expired, from the products available on 3 May 2022.
Lenders are entitled to withdraw products at any time and without notice. Lloyds made 
changes to its product range and the 2.13% product was withdrawn on 2 May 2022. Lloyds 
didnt tell the broker or Mr P this straight away on 3 May 2022. But by about mid-day on 3 
May 2023, Lloyds had told the broker the rate had been withdrawn and wasnt available to 
Mr P and Ms D. It said they couldnt have applied before the rate was withdrawn. So they 
were given clear information about this within a few hours.
Ms D and Mr P had to choose from the new product range. While this would have caused 
some inconvenience (and interest rates had increased), this wasnt due to an error by 
Lloyds. They could only apply for a product from the range available to them. 
Mr P says they might have looked into re-mortgaging with another lender to secure a better 
rate. I appreciate that Mr P and Ms D wanted clear information from Lloyds about when they 
could make their product switch application. But I cant see that the difficulties they had in 
obtaining this stopped them from looking at the rates on offer elsewhere and starting an 
application if they wanted to do so. 
Complaint handling
Mr P says the complaint handler was rude and didnt investigate his complaint properly. He 
says they missed the chance to apply elsewhere while waiting for the outcome of the complaint.
I should explain that complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity. That means we cant 
always look into concerns about how a complaint was dealt with. I can consider this if the 
way the complaint was dealt with affected the underlying problem being resolved. I dont 
think that was the case here.
Lloyds sent a final response on 11 May 2022  about a week after Mr P raised a complaint. 
Mr P says he didnt receive the final response, but he did speak to the complaint handler that 
day and was told the outcome of the complaint. 
Lloyds upheld the first part of the complaint. It agreed that it didnt provide correct 
information about when Mr P and Ms D would be able to apply for a product switch. It paid 
£20 compensation. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the second part of the complaint, about missing out on the 2.13% 
product. Mr P asked that Lloyds re-consider this after listening to all the calls. I dont think I 
can fairly say that Lloyds is responsible for this adding to the time that Mr P and Ms D spent 
waiting for the outcome they wanted. I dont think there was an unreasonable delay in Lloyds 
confirming it wouldnt apply the 2.13% rate to Ms D and Mr Ps mortgage.  
Mr P says they missed out on applying elsewhere while waiting for a response. I dont think 
its fair to hold Lloyds responsible for this. As I said, I dont think there was an unreasonable 
delay in it responding to Mr Ps complaint. And there was nothing to prevent Mr P and Ms D 
applying elsewhere if better rates were available. I note that Mr P told Lloyds during a call on 
4 May 2022 that they were stuck with Lloyds because rates had also gone up elsewhere. 
Mr P says Lloyds has been selective about the call recordings it can provide. Lloyds says it 
cant locate all of Mr Ps calls as his number was withheld. I dont think the outcome would 
be different if Lloyds was able to provide recordings of all calls. As I said, Mr P and Ms D 
would never have been able to take out the 2.13% product, as it was withdrawn before they 
were able to apply for it. 
Mr P asked me to take into account that he and Ms D are busy professionals with carer 
responsibilities. I appreciate that all of this happened during a period of interest rates rises. 
As Ive said, I dont think errors made by Lloyds caused Ms D and Mr P financial loss. While 
its errors did cause some inconvenience, I must take into account that Mr P and Ms Ds 
broker could have dealt with Lloyds on their behalf if this was difficult with their other 
responsibilities. 
While I know Mr P and Ms D will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Lloyds to apply the 2.13% interest rate product to their mortgage or 
pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman