DRN-3879544
The complaint
Mrs L complains about a decision by Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, not to
uphold a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mrs L bought a used car from a dealer Ill call C in October 2021. The car was a little over
10 years old and had already completed about 127,000 miles. Mrs L paid £600 towards the
purchase price with a credit card provided by Virgin Money. The car was advertised as
having a full service history (FSH).
Mrs L was unable to resolve problems she had with the deal, so she contacted Virgin Money
who she said she had a like right to claim against under section 75.
When matters couldnt be resolved with Virgin Money Mrs L referred her complaint to this
service. Our investigator thought there had been a breach of contract as he was persuaded
the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality. He suggested the business refund the cost of a
door lock replacement; the cost to replace a mis fuel reset tool; the cost of the diagnostic
Mrs L had to commission; and he also thought the business should replace all four tyres to
the manufacturers recommendation and to the standard expected on a car of this age. The
investigator didnt agree that the deal had been misrepresented to Mrs L. He noted shed
suggested she had been incorrectly informed the car had only been on the market for six
weeks, but he didnt think Mrs L had sufficient evidence to substantiate that claim. He also
noted that Mrs L had suggested the car hadnt had the FSH it was supposed to be provided
with, but he didnt agree.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators view, she provided a detailed chronology of events
and asked for the complaint to be escalated. The complaint has therefore been passed to
me, an ombudsman, to provide a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold the complaint but on broader grounds and that means the redress
Im suggesting is more comprehensive. Im therefore issuing a provisional decision to give
the parties time to respond to those new findings.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here,
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made in part or in full with a credit card,
as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Breach of contract
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price, and all the other relevant
circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs L. The car here was ten
years old and had already completed significant mileage of 127,000. I think a reasonable
person would therefore expect quite a bit of wear and tear, but I think theyd still expect the
car to be able to drive over 30mph without issue and to be able to access all doors.
Within the first six months Mrs L picked up several problems with the car. The relevant
legislation explains we are to assume those faults were present at the point the car was
supplied unless the business can demonstrate otherwise.
The door lock problem was identified shortly after Mrs L collected the vehicle. Virgin Money
havent demonstrated it wasnt present when the car was supplied, and I think they are
therefore responsible for putting things right. Mrs L wanted the repair cost refunded to her
and I think Virgin Money should do that and that they should add interest to the refund as
Mrs L has been deprived of that money.
The mis fuel reset tool was also missing and for similar reasons Virgin Money should also
refund the cost of replacement that Mrs L incurred, adding interest to the refund.
Theres no dispute that Mrs L experienced significant vibration and noise when she drove
the car over 30 mph. The dealerships chosen repairer identified that was due to tyre 
mismatch. Whilst the tyres may have individually been in road worthy condition the mismatch
and variation in tread wear was causing a problem that I think a reasonable person would
consider unsatisfactory.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved yet and Mrs L has continued to experience the
problem she has explained that it hasnt been possible to take the car on longer/faster runs
where the engine could reach the temperature required to regenerate the diesel particulate
filter (DPF). Shes therefore had to take the decision to replace all four tyres to resolve the
issue. The investigator suggested that the business should replace all four tyres to the
manufacturers recommendation and to the standard expected on a car of this age. I dont
think that was a practical solution as it would be difficult to source used tyres with equivalent
wear. I think Mrs L has experienced delays because of Virgin Moneys failure to investigate
this issue thoroughly. Whilst a replacement of all tyres with new ones may be overlygenerous given the age and mileage of the car and the wear on the tyres since fitted, I think
given the inconvenience Mrs L has experienced not being able to drive at speed without
excessive noise and vibration; the delays shes experienced getting an adequate response
from the business on this issue; and the fact the car shouldnt have been provided in this
condition, a full refund for all four tyres is reasonable.
Misrepresentation
If Mrs L was told something that was false and that led her to enter into an agreement she
wouldnt otherwise have entered into I would think the agreement had been misrepresented
to her and Id ask the business to take some action.
Mrs L says she was told the car had been on sale for much less time than she later
discovered was the case. Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to substantiate that
claim as the dealership dispute Mrs L (and her husbands) assertion, and theres nothing in
writing to support the claim Mrs L makes. And, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think
finding out the car had been on sale for a longer period would have been likely to mean that
Mrs L wouldnt have proceeded with the deal. It didnt have any impact on the price, the
vehicle specification, or the quality of the car, for instance.
Mrs L also says the car wasnt provided with the FSH it was advertised with. I think this is an
important issue as I think the lack of a FSH would have been likely to affect the value of the
car. And, as a timing belt change should have been completed when the car was ten years
old any prospective customer would have been concerned that hadnt taken place as the
implications could be serious if it snapped.
Mrs L has provided significant information and research to suggest some of the stamps in
the logbook are fraudulent. Whether the dealership committed fraud is a matter for the police
and isnt something I can decide. But, I dont think its necessary for me to do that as Im
persuaded there is evidence the car wasnt provided with a FSH.
The logbook shows some errors. Its unclear whether services between 12 October 2015
and 10 July 2017 were A or B services and the service due at ten years appears to have
been an A service as a note suggests it was an interim oil and filter change. At that point a
full B service should have been completed and the timing belt should have been changed.
So, I think the car was misrepresented to Mrs L as it didnt have a full service history and I
dont think Mrs L would have proceeded with the deal had she not been provided with that
false statement of fact.
The usual remedy when goods are misrepresented is to put the consumer back in the
situation they would have been in had the misrepresentation not have taken place. The 
dealer did suggest theyd take the car back and refund Mrs L her money but that wouldnt
have put Mrs L in the same place as by then shed paid for the full service that had been
required.
In the circumstances I think the best solution would be for Virgin Money to refund the cost of
the full service Mrs L had to pay for in October 2021. Theyll need to add interest to that
refund.
Distress and inconvenience
Our investigator suggested Virgin Money should pay Mrs L £100 in respect of the distress
and inconvenience shes experienced. I dont think thats sufficient here. Ive covered some
of this when I considered the replacement of the tyres, but I think there has been additionaldistress and inconvenience caused. Mrs L has explained that shes been extremely anxious
about these issues and that its impacted on her sleep and her eating. Shes also explained
that shes been tearful at times. The car was funded from money left to her and therefore
had some sentimental value which I think would have heightened the distress shes
experienced. Mrs L has also explained that shes been unable to tow her horse trailer at
times because of the problems with the car and shes had to get issues fixed and research
technical issues to support her case. Taking all of that into account I think Virgin Money
should pay her £300 in respect of the additional distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
Refund the cost incurred by Mrs L to repair the door lock, replace the mis fuel tool,
and replace all four tyres on provision of receipts. Add 8% simple interest per year
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the full service on provision of the receipt and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs L £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
It was subsequently brought to my attention by Mrs L that whilst Id referred to refunding the 
cost of the diagnostic shed commissioned I hadnt listed it in the redress. I therefore updated 
that redress to include the refund of the diagnostic and allowed a little time for Virgin Money 
to respond.
Mrs L accepted my provisional decision and although Virgin Money werent persuaded by 
my rationale about the service history, they did note that the lack of information about a 
timing belt change strengthened the claim for misrepresentation, and they were prepared to 
accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
Refund the cost incurred by Mrs L to repair the door lock, replace the mis fuel tool,
and replace all four tyres on provision of receipts. Add 8% simple interest per year
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the full service on provision of the receipt and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the diagnostic Mrs L commissioned on provision of the receipt 
from Mrs L. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.Pay Mrs L £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman