DRN-2501300
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car supplied with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that provisional decision, I explained 
why I proposed to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I said that the issue wasnt whether the car was 
of satisfactory quality, because BMWFS had already accepted a rejection. Rather, the issue 
was one of redress. BMWFS had offered a settlement to Mr B but it hadnt paid it.
I said that in circumstances where a car is rejected, Id expect the business to put the 
consumer back in the position they were in, which would include refunding any deposit, 
refunding some or all of the monthly payments, depending on the circumstances of the case 
and taking into account the consumers use of the car). I explained that because Mr B hadnt 
been able to use the car since October 2019, I thought he should receive a refund of his 
monthly payments from this date. I also said that Mr B should receive a refund of his deposit.
The delay in paying the settlement led to further consequences for Mr B. This included 
negative entries on his credit file, which I said was an error because a rejection had been 
accepted, so the agreement should have been cancelled. I explained why I thought BMWFS 
should compensate Mr B for the distress caused by this. 
I invited Mr B and BMWFS to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to 
make before I finally determined the matter.
BMWFS replied and acknowledged that it had failed to carry out the settlement. It apologised 
that it wasnt dealt with sooner and said it would raise the payment and remove the entries 
from Mr Bs credit file. It offered £500 for the inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Mr B said he agreed with my provisional decision and would rather accept this than 
BMWFSs offer as it was closer to what he thought was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Mr B has indicated that he accepts my provisional decision. BMWFS didnt say that it 
disagreed with my provisional decision, but it made an offer to Mr B which was less 
favourable that the redress awarded in my provisional decision. I dont see any reasons to 
reach different conclusions to those which I set out on my provisional decision.
Putting things right
 For these reasons  as well as those set out in my provisional decision  my final decision is 
that I uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
  BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund Mr Bs deposit together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Refund all payments made by Mr b since 1 October 2019 together with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
agreement
Pay compensation of £500
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman