DRN-2518341
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) has cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. He is also dissatisfied that Calpe is seeking to recover costs from Mr S, for 
an accident he was involved in.
References to Calpe also involve parties acting on its behalf.
What happened
In early August 2019, Calpe, Mr S motor insurer, was contacted by a third party about an 
accident it said Mr S was involved in. The third party said their car had been parked, and 
Mr S vehicle reversed into it, causing damage. This has happened a couple of days 
previously. 
On receiving notification of this loss, Calpe contacted Mr S. It first phoned Mr S about the 
issue, and Mr S noted that he hadnt been involved in any accident. Calpe has explained that 
it then emailed Mr S a couple of days later, asking Mr S for information in relation to the loss. 
But Mr S responded to this email, again saying he hadnt been involved in any accident.
Calpe told Mr S that it had received evidence Mr S was involved in the incident. It said it had 
been provided with CCTV footage, showing Mr S vehicle reversing into the third partys car. 
It said because Mr S had been dishonest by not telling it he was involved in the accident, it 
was cancelling his insurance policy from the date the accident had occurred. And it wouldnt 
be returning Mr S premium to him. Calpe noted Mr S had breached the fraud condition of 
the policy, in not telling it he was involved in the accident when it first asked.
Calpe also said it had settled the third-party claim  and as it had cancelled Mr S insurance 
policy, Mr S would need to pay it back for these costs it had incurred.
Later, Calpe provided further reasons for cancelling Mr S policy, in addition to the fraud 
concerns it had previously raised. It said Mr S had breached three other conditions of his 
policy. These being;
a general condition which said Mr S must behave honestly;
a condition that said Mr S must provide information and assistance with any claim to 
Calpe;
and a term which noted Calpe could cancel a policy if the risk to the insurer would not 
have been one it was willing to accept  given breaches of conditions in the policy.
Mr S remained unhappy with this. So, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator thought Calpe had acted fairly in cancelling Mr S insurance policy. She said 
Calpe had raised a number of conditions contained in the policy, that she did feel were 
breached. And therefore, it was fair for Calpe to cancel the insurance policy and retain the 
premium for it. But she didnt think it was fair for Calpe to pursue Mr S for the costs in 
relation to the third party claim it paid out  because Calpe would have needed to pay for this 
loss anyway.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that he had made a mistake when saying he was not involved in 
the accident. Mr S explained he initially forgot about the matter, because it had happened a 
few days previously. And, he didnt think the incident had been serious enough to cause 
damage. Mr S said at the time of the incident he hadnt been sure whether he hit the car 
behind him, or the curb. 
Mr S has also noted that because his insurance policy had been cancelled, he had to get 
cover elsewhere. And this cover had been more expensive. So, he wanted Calpe to reinstate 
his insurance policy, and pay him for the additional costs hed incurred by insuring 
elsewhere.
Calpe also didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it did think it was entitled to 
recover claims costs from Mr S  it said Mr S had been dishonest and it had fairly cancelled 
his policy as a result.
I sent both parties by provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on coming to a different outcome to that of our investigator. I 
dont intend on upholding this complaint.
Cancellation of policy
Ive looked at Mr S policy documents, to see what cover his policy provided. I can see Mr S 
did have comprehensive cover, which provided cover for him being involved in an accident, 
and for assistance in relation to third party damage. But, as is common with insurance 
policies, there are terms and conditions that provide limits to this cover.
Calpe initially referred to the fraud condition within the policy to decline Mr S claim. Ive 
looked at this condition, and can see it says;
If You or anyone acting on Your behalf
Makes any claim or any part of any claim that is fraudulent, false or exaggerated or 
supported by any fraudulent device;
We or the Underwriters may
Immediately cancel or avoid Your policy and/or all other Policies which You have with 
us from the date of the claim arising.
Ive thought about whether Calpe acted fairly in using this condition to cancel Mr S policy. 
And I dont think it did. The reason I say that is the above term is clear in saying that Mr S 
would need to make a claim, or part of a claim, that was fraudulent, false or exaggerated. 
But I dont think Mr S made a claim in this instance. Mr S hadnt contacted Calpe to seek indemnity under his policy. Instead, a third-party insurer had contacted it in relation to the 
loss. So, I think Calpe acted unreasonably in using this reason to cancel Mr S policy. 
However, I do think Calpe acted in line with other terms of the policy, when it decided to 
cancel the policy. So, whilst I think it initially gave the wrong reason for the cancellation, I 
think it ultimately made a fair decision in cancelling the policy.
The cancellation section of Mr S policy documents does give Calpe the right to cancel the 
policy, for a number of reasons. Looking at these terms, I can see one of these reasons 
detail that Calpe is able to cancel the policy if there is evidence of dishonesty. And I think 
Calpe came to a reasonable decision that Mr S had breached this policy term.
I say this because Ive seen the CCTV footage from the incident. This footage shows that 
Mr S reversed into the front of the vehicle parked behind it  what looks like twice. Mr S then 
got out of the car and went to look at the rear of his car, as well as the front of the car hit. 
Im also aware that Calpe had contacted Mr S twice and asked him to confirm whether he 
had been involved in the accident. And Mr S incorrectly said he hadnt been involved both 
times. I think that Mr S getting out and inspecting the cars after the incident suggests he was 
aware of the incident that happened, and therefore should have confirmed this to Calpe 
when it asked. Mr S had duty to be honest.
I understand Mr S has said he had forgotten about the incident. But, even if Mr S had 
forgotten this by the time Calpe first called him, the email sent to him a few days later 
provided him to time to think back and consider what had happened on the day the incident 
occurred  and provide the correct answer. But Mr S still said he wasnt involved, when this 
wasnt the case. 
Mr S has also said he wasnt sure whether he hit the third party car in the incident, or the 
curb. And that he didnt think the incident was serious. I think both of these explanations 
show Mr S was aware there was an incident that he had been involved in, when Calpe 
contacted him. But it wasnt until Calpe provided Mr S with evidence of the CCTV footage, 
that he accepted he had been involved in the accident. 
Given the above evidence, Im satisfied Calpe acted fairly, in saying Mr S breached the 
condition of his policy requiring honesty. Calpe reviewed the information provided to it, and I 
think its assessment that Mr S wasnt being honest was a fair and reasonable conclusion to 
make. And therefore, Im satisfied it acted fairly in cancelling the insurance policy.
Because I think that Calpe has acted fairly in cancelling Mr S insurance policy, I dont intend 
on requiring it to reinstate Mr S policy. As a result of the cancellation, I accept Mr S has 
likely needed to obtain insurance elsewhere  and this may have been more expensive. But, 
as I dont think Calpe did anything wrong in ultimately cancelling Mr S policy, I also dont 
intend on requiring it to refund the difference in cost between Mr S two policies either.
Calpe has highlighted it hasnt returned the premium Mr S had paid out for his insurance 
policy, when it cancelled the policy. The terms of Mr S policy do clearly say that Calpe wont 
return the premiums paid. They say;
We would like to highlight some of the potential implications of having Your motor insurance 
Policy cancelled:
()d) You will not be entitled to any refund on premium paid and You will continue to be liable 
for any instalments outstanding relating to the purchase of Your policy. 
Given that Calpe has acted in line with these terms, Im satisfied Calpe has acted fairly here 
too. And so, I dont intend on requiring it to refund Mr S insurance premium. 
Recovery of claims costs
Our investigator said that whilst it was fair for Mr S policy to have been cancelled, it wasnt 
fair for Calpe to ask Mr S to pay back what it had settled with the third party. Our investigator 
said Calpe would have needed to provide payment to the third party anyway.
I intend to find differently on this element of the complaint. Mr S has an obligation in his 
dealings with insurance company  to act in good faith. Based on the information Ive seen 
about Mr S denial of being in the incident, I think Calpe acted fairly in noting it was most 
likely Mr S had been dishonest (so didnt act in good faith) in this instance. 
Calpe could have made the decision to cancel Mr S insurance policy without paying for the 
third partys loss. This would have meant Mr S would have needed to deal with the third 
partys loss on his own. If Mr S didnt pay for the third partys costs at the point, Calpe may 
have needed to step in and pay for the loss under the relevant legislation. 
But it would have been entitled to recover these costs from Mr S. So, either way, Mr S would 
ultimately need to pay for the third-party loss himself. For that reason, I do think it is 
reasonable for Calpe to look to recover its loss of £4,946 (the amount it paid out to the third 
party) from Mr S. 
Recording of policy cancellation
Mr S has said his premium has increased when needing to find another insurer to insure 
him. Im not sure whether Calpe has recorded the cancellation of Mr S policy on any 
external databases, or whether this has had an impact on the new premium Mr S is being 
charged. I havent been provided with any evidence for the cancellation being recorded.
But, Mr S policy does say that Calpe may retain and share information on claims history and 
the cancellation of policies with other insurers and interested parties, where necessary and 
appropriate. As the cancellation of Mr S policy is accurate information, and relevant to Mr S 
insurance history I do think Calpe has acted appropriately, if it has shared this information in 
line with the policy terms.
Calpe responded and said it agreed with my conclusions and didnt have anything further to 
add on this complaint. Mr S responded and explained he didnt agree. Mr S said he had 
forgotten about the incident taking place, and to check the CCTV footage for evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S has said he forgotten about the incident with 
the third-party car  and thats why he didnt tell Calpe he had been involved when asked. 
And, Mr S asked for the CCTV footage to be reviewed.Id like to reassure both parties I did review these points, when coming to my provisional 
decision. And having reviewed these points again, my thoughts do remain the same. My 
reasoning around these two points, and the outcome of this complaint, can be found in the 
provisional decision detailed above.
Neither party has provided further evidence or comments, that alter the outcome of this 
complaint, or my reasoning as to why I dont think Calpe acted unfairly in this case. So, my 
final decision remains the same as that noted in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman