DRN-3492113
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was unfairly refused a mortgage by National Westminster Bank Plc 
which meant he was unable to port his mortgage product and had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC)
What happened
Mr C had a mortgage account with NatWest from 2018. In July 2021 Mr C enquired about 
additional borrowing on his mortgage when an affordability toolkit was completed including a 
soft credit search, and his enquiry was declined due to the credit search. Mr C said that 
there was a £100 default on his credit file that was longstanding and hadnt affected his 
application for the existing mortgage. As it was more than likely that a full application would 
have been declined, Mr C didnt go ahead with it but in February 2022 Mr C contacted 
NatWest about porting his mortgage product and assisting him with additional borrowing to 
buy another property. 
But Mr Cs application failed the affordability test although NatWest said that it would 
consider an application for a mortgage on another property on a like for like basis. But for Mr 
C it also meant that he didnt have an agreement on principle (AIP) as evidence of his 
ability to buy another property. NatWest recognised that it provided poor service to Mr C 
during the application process including the failure to call-back Mr C when promised. It 
offered Mr C compensation of £300.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that in 
respect of the applications that NatWest had done nothing wrong and the compensation for 
the poor service was appropriate.
Mr C said that we missed the main point of his complaint which was that NatWest had 
offered him considerably better terms as a new customer compared to being an existing 
customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, apart from the service issues, I dont consider that NatWest has done 
anything wrong. NatWest processed an enquiry about further borrowing and a new mortgage 
and these failed an affordability toolkit test based on a recorded default on a soft credit 
check. Failure of a credit check is a reasonable ground of refusal for further borrowing. 
It appears not to have prevented Mr C getting his original mortgage and it maybe that 
NatWest didnt pick the default up originally or its lending criteria tightened, which of course 
can happen, but lenders are entitled to amend that criteria at any time. That of course can 
have a knock-on effect of preventing Mr C porting his mortgage product, but I see that 
NatWest indicated it would consider a new application on a like for like basis which seems a 
fair offer. In the absence of a new mortgage offer if Mr C redeemed his mortgage under the 
terms of his existing mortgage offer, Mr C would have to pay an ERC and I dont consider 
that is unfair as it was consistent with the terms of the agreement between Mr C and 
NatWest.
There was a difficulty in that NatWest wouldnt issue an AIP. But an AIP is a general 
statement from a lender that a level of borrowing is likely to be affordable to a borrower. 
NatWest wasnt saying that but saying to Mr C that if he made an application for a loan on a 
particular property it would consider the application on a like for like basis despite him not 
meeting the affordability criteria. So, I can understand why NatWest didnt issue an AIP and 
cant fault the bank for not doing so.
Mr C also says that he went through a broker for a new mortgage and that NatWest were 
willing to offer him twice what they were willing to offer compared to his direct contact with 
them. Mr C says that he hasnt an official offer but that it was on the brokers system, but he 
didnt proceed with NatWest. The implication of that is that NatWest were willing to offer him 
a higher mortgage as a new borrower than an existing borrower. 
In order for me to consider the matter further I asked Mr C to provide the date this 
application was made and any documentary evidence of it, and asked him how as an 
existing customer of NatWest he could apply as a new customer and if a credit check was 
done. Mr C has previously said he has no documentary evidence, but Ive not heard from Mr 
C on the question as to whether a credit check was done. From what Mr C tells me its not 
clear that an application was in fact made on his behalf to NatWest. It seems to have been a 
preliminary enquiry and no evidence that a credit check was done. So, based on that I cant 
fairly say that Mr C was being treated unfairly in his application because he was an existing 
customer rather than a new one. For the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I 
agree that in respect of the service issues that the £300 offered by NatWest represents fair 
compensation. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman