DRN-2961369
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced his credit limit 
from £10,000 to £250.  
What happened
Mr P had a Barclays credit account with a credit limit of £10,000. In October 2020, Barclays 
sent Mr P a letter asking him to validate his income and return the information requested to 
them by post by 8 December 2020. Mr P subsequently posted the documents requested by 
Barclays in the pre-paid envelope provided to him.
Following this, Mr P didnt hear from Barclays, so he telephoned them on 12 November and 
again on 3 December seeking to confirm that Barclays had received the documents that hed 
sent. Barclays representatives werent able to confirm receipt of the documents, and they 
asked Mr P to wait longer and assured him that he would be contacted by Barclays when the 
information was received by them.
The 8 December deadline given by Barclays then passed, and Barclays reduced the credit 
limit on Mr Ps credit account from £10,000 to £250 - with the reason given being that Mr P 
hadnt supplied the requested information to them by the given deadline. Mr P wasnt happy 
about this, so he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they reiterated that they hadnt received the 
requested information by the given deadline. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They understood Mr Ps frustration, but 
they noted that Barclays retained the right to lower a customers credit limit if they saw fit to 
do so, and because of this our investigator didnt feel that they could reasonably instruct 
Barclays to reinstate the £10,000 credit limit as Mr P would have liked.
However, our investigator did feel that Barclays should have done more when Mr P called to 
ensure that information that they were requesting was received, so they recommended that 
this complaint be upheld in Mr Ps favour on that basis only and that Barclays should make a 
payment to Mr P of £150 to compensate him for any trouble and upset incurred.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It must have been frustrating for Mr P to have discovered that Barclays had reduced the 
credit limit on his account because they hadnt received verification of his income as theyd 
asked for, especially as Mr P had sent Barclays this information and had called them on two 
occasions to check whether that information had been received. 
Indeed, given that Mr P did contact Barclays on both 12 November and 3 December, its 
disappointing that Barclays then chose to reduce Mr Ps credit limit, and it would have been 
expected by this service that Barclays would have recognised that Mr P was making efforts 
to ensure that the higher credit limit on his account was retained and to have taken the 
relevant information from him verbally pending receipt of the documents that hed sent to 
them.
However, the terms and conditions of the credit account enable Barclays to reduce the credit 
limit on an account without notification. The relevant sections being:
We set your credit limit according to your circumstances, your account usage and
history, information from other parts of the Barclays group, information we receive
from credit reference agencies, and any other information we think is relevant.
And:
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay,
we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be
appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice). We 
wont reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any 
transactions authorised but not yet charged to your account.
Barclays have confirmed that they reduced Mr Ps credit limit to £250 based on an 
assessment of risk, undertaken following the non-receipt of the documents from Mr P. And, 
given that this is permitted by the terms and conditions of the account, I dont feel that I can 
reasonably instruct Barclays to reinstate the previous credit limit on Mr Ps account as he 
would like here  and I note that if I did so, Barclays would be within their rights to 
immediately reduce the credit limit once again, based on their own assessment of risk.
Barclays have stated that Mr P is free to request a higher credit limit at any time, and if Mr P 
does want to have a higher credit limit on his account, I can only encourage him to apply to 
Barclays accordingly.
However, I do feel that the standard of service that Mr P received from Barclays regarding 
this issue, including how his telephone calls of 12 November and 3 December werent 
actioned effectively by Barclays, wasnt to the standard that this service would expect. 
As such, I will upholding this complaint in Mr Ps favour on that basis only and instructing 
Barclays to make a payment of £150 to Mr P to compensate him for any distress or 
inconvenience this matter may have caused.
I recognise that this might not be the outcome that Mr P was wanting here, but I hope that he 
can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mr P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman