DRN-2397295
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc handled a change to his 
standing order on his bank account.
What happened
Mr T had a standing order of £3,000 on his account which hed had for a number of years. In 
late November 2019, Mr T increased the standing order to £4,000. But this payment didnt 
leave his account, as it was flagged as potentially fraudulent activity.
Mr T had to make several calls to resolve the issue and make his payment. In the end, the 
standing order for December 2019 had to be sent manually as it had been cancelled by the 
fraud team and couldnt be reset in time. 
Mr T complained to Natwest that his time had been wasted and he wasnt satisfied with the 
attitude of the staff in one call in particular. He was also unhappy that the payee reference 
doesnt appear on his bank statements, which makes it difficult for him to track his payments 
and file his tax returns. 
Natwest said it monitors all payments to prevent any fraudulent activity, and the criteria of 
which payments are flagged changes often to prevent fraudsters. It said it had followed the 
correct procedure and contacted Mr T to check the payment was genuine, but Mr T hadnt 
been able to speak to the fraud team when it had called. So it didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong. But it agreed its service had fallen short of whats expected in a phone call 
with Mr T, so it offered £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Natwests response, Mr T brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Natwest needed to do anymore to put things right. She thought 
much of the complaint was about Natwests internal processes such as how it decides on 
which fraudulent payments to flag. She didnt think those were for this service to comment 
on.
Mr T didnt accept that, he said Natwest had failed in its duty of care to customers and that 
some common sense should be applied so that genuine transactions are not stopped 
unnecessarily. He said £100 wasnt sufficient for being prevented for using his own money.
As Mr T hasnt accepted, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at what happened with Mr Ts payment, Im satisfied Natwest followed its own 
process for potentially fraudulent payments. In Mr Ts terms and conditions Natwest reserves 
the right to stop any payment it may suspect could be fraudulent, and if it does so, the fraud 
team will contact the customer to check before the payment is released. Im satisfied that 
happened in this case. I can understand why Mr T questioned that this payment in particular 
was stopped, as the standing order details have been set up for a long time. But Natwest 
doesnt have to provide the rationale behind which payments are stopped, and I think this is 
reasonable to ensure its customers money is protected. So I dont accept Natwest acted 
unreasonably in stopping the payment. 
Unfortunately, when the fraud team called, it wasnt a convenient time for Mr T to speak to 
them, so the payment wasnt authorised. Its not clear to me how the conversation ended, 
whether the fraud team agreed to call back or Mr T said he would call back. But either way, 
no further contact was made on that day. Mr T said the following day hed heard on the news 
that the systems at Natwest had gone down, so his next contact with Natwest was on 
Saturday. The fraud team said the payment could now be made again. But I think there may 
have been a miscommunication here. From what Ive seen Mr T thought the payment of 
£4,000 would leave the account on the Monday by standing order as was scheduled, but it 
didnt.
It appears the standing order deadline had passed, so instead of the payment starting from 
1 December as Mr T had wanted, it started from 1 January. So in order to make the 
payment, Mr T had to do a manual transfer of the £4,000 in December 2019. 
I accept this caused him inconvenience. And from what Ive seen I dont think this was 
clearly explained to Mr T. But as far as I can see, by the time Mr T had confirmed he was 
happy with the payment, it was too late for the standing order to be set up in time for             
1 December, as two working days are needed for this. So a manual payment would have 
always been needed to be made for December. But because I cant see this was explained 
clearly to Mr T, I think its likely the payment left his account a day later than it otherwise 
would have. 
I note there was a further issue that the manual payment of £4,000 was partially stopped by 
the fraud team again, but given this was resolved on the same day I think Natwest did what it 
could to ensure Mr T wasnt caused any further issues.
Natwest has already accepted the service given to Mr T was poor in one of its phone calls 
and has offered £100 in recognition of this. Mr T has said this doesnt compensate him for 
the time he spent in resolving the issue, and I accept that it doesnt. But this service doesnt 
strictly compensate people for their time spent in sorting out issues. Dealing with a complaint 
will generally be inconvenient and is part of normal life. This service makes awards for 
additional distress or inconvenience over and above that which can be expected.. For 
example, for Mr T having to speak to a rude case handler, which shouldnt have happened.
Having looked at everything, including the other possible errors in communication from 
Natwest, I think £100 is a fair offer to recognise the overall inconvenience caused to Mr T. In 
deciding that Ive taken into account that Natwest has confirmed that feedback has been 
provided to the appropriate call handler, and that any miscommunication by Natwest 
probably resulted in the payment being delayed by one working day. Ive also taken into 
account that Natwest did try to speak to Mr T about his concerns on a number of occasions 
but wasnt able to reach him. So I dont think it needs to do anymore to put things right. Mr T has said that Natwest should have taken his complaint as feedback, and an opportunity 
to learn. And I agree that should be done when complaints are made. And for Mr Ts 
assurance, Id like to explain that under the rules of this service, businesses are bound to 
learn from ombudsman decisions. I hope this reassures him that his concerns will be taken 
seriously.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman