DRN-2973887
The complaint
Mr G has complained because Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) has declined a claim on his 
cosmetic repair insurance policy. Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
Following a minor impact, Mr G submitted a claim on his cosmetic repair insurance policy 
with Lloyds for a scuff on his rear bumper. Lloyds arranged a repair appointment, but when 
the attending repairer arrived, he deemed the damage as unrepairable under the policy 
terms and conditions, so he didnt repair the damage.
But Mr G disagrees. He says the damage is repairable and Lloyds are just trying to avoid 
paying his claim. He says if Lloyds are refusing to fix the damage it should pay him a 
contribution for a body shop repair as per the policy terms and conditions.
Lloyds reviewed the attending repairers report and photographs of the damage. But it 
maintained its stance and continued to exclude the claim. Further to this, Lloyds says it wont 
pay a contribution where a cosmetic repair isnt deemed possible. So, Mr G brought his 
complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked at this complaint. But the investigator deemed the claim decline as 
fair and said Lloyds didnt need to take any further action. 
But Mr G doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its our role to make sure Lloyds have made a fair and reasonable decision when it declined 
the claim. Its not up to this service to assess the damage caused. We dont have that 
expertise and were not engineers. Our approach is to review Lloyds actions and to decide 
whether Lloyds has done enough to fairly and reasonably decline Mr Gs claim in line with 
the available evidence and the terms and conditions of his policy. 
So, Ive considered the terms of the policy in order to determine whether Lloyds has acted 
fairly. This is a cosmetic repair policy and a cosmetic repair is defined as a repair technique 
suitable for repairing Minor Cosmetic Damage. A Cosmetic Repair involves restoring eligible 
damaged areas as close as possible back to their original condition and where appropriate 
includes a Touch-in Repair, however no repair will be identical to the original automotive 
factory finish.
Minor Cosmetic Damage is defined as A Chip, Minor Dent, Light Scratch and/or Scuffed 
Bumper caused by a single Incident, where the total damaged area is no larger than 30cm in 
diameter or 3mm in depth and, in the case of a Chip(s) is no larger than 1.5cm in diameter or 
3mm in depth. Any one claim is limited to one Minor Cosmetic Damage repair, unless in the 
case of multiple damages caused by a single Incident where the total end to end size of the 
furthermost points of the combined damaged area is no larger than 30cm in diameter or 
3mm in depth. Any repairs which are greater than these limits or are estimated to exceed 
four hours
to complete will not be considered to be Minor Cosmetic Damage.
I can see there are also a number of exclusions listed in the policy. The policy says, You will 
not be covered for Minor Cosmetic Damage: 
to any body panel or part of a panel that has been distorted, ripped, torn, or 
perforated.
that requires replacement of any body panel or part of a panel.
Mr G had a minor impact where he scuffed his rear bumper. From the photographs provided 
I can see that there is damage on three separate panels on the lower rear bumper. He 
booked in a repair through his insurance and a cosmetic damage repairer attended. Mr G 
says The repair worker came out to carry out the repair on the 7th of September and started 
to make noises; tutting and sighing and he said "I'm going to struggle to do that mate" 
followed by "I can do it, but to get a nicer finish youre going to be wanting to replace the 
black plastic" Mr G says he didnt want the black plastic moulding replaced, he just wanted 
the paintwork done. But Mr G says the attending repairer said this job was best carried out in 
a body shop. At this point Mr G says he mentioned the £250 contribution. Mr G states the 
attending repairer became a little nervous about this term, and Mr G stated to the repairer 
that he was aware of all the policy terms and conditions.
The repair didnt go ahead and Mr G emailed Lloyds. About a week later he says he 
received an email saying that the damage had distorted the panel, and as such the damage 
wouldnt be deemed minor cosmetic damage as per the policy terms and conditions. The 
final response from Lloyds states upon review of the images the technician had taken, the 
distortion is evident; the damage is also deeper than 3mms. In addition to this, I understand 
that the plastic moulding at the bottom would require removal in order for a cosmetic repair 
to be effected. I would like to clarify that any moulding that requires removal is not covered 
under the policy. Please see the exclusions section in your policy handbook. Lloyds have 
also pointed out that the £250 contribution is only payable if the damage falls under the 
definition of minor cosmetic damage.
Mr G has provided a number of photographs of the damage. He has also approached 
another cosmetic repair company who have provided an estimate of the repair only. I dont 
see that a further report has been provided, although I do note that Mr G says that the 
provider of the second estimate told him that cosmetic repair policies very rarely pay out. Mr 
G is very frustrated, and he says, that the damage is completely and utterly clearly not 
distorted or deeper than 3mm. He stresses that the damage on the rear bumper is well 
within the policy (definition) and these exclusions do not apply. 
When dealing with a claim like this an insurer such as Lloyds is reliant on the observations of 
the attending repairer. Yes, it can look at photographs provided from all different angles, but 
the reality is that the initial information provided by the attending or inspecting repairer in the 
shape of a report carries most weight. Our role, as I set out above, is to make sure Lloyds 
have taken this information and correctly applied the policy terms and conditions based on 
what its been told. 
I can see from Mr Gs recollection of the conversation with the attending repairer that there 
was hesitation by the attending repairer from the moment he looked at the damage. Having dealt with these types of complaint previously, its not unusual for an attending repairer to 
have to make a call on whether the repair can be carried out or not? If the attending repairer 
can complete a full minor cosmetic repair at the time, the claim will usually be covered. If 
he cant, the next thing that needs to be considered is whether the damage is minor 
cosmetic damage as per the definition in the policy but needs body shop assistance. If it is, 
the repair moves to a body shop and at that point its decided whether a contribution should 
be made. 
From the evidence Ive seen it looks like a partial repair couldve been carried out. But it 
would never have been a full repair or up to the required standard. The attending repairer 
says the plastic moulding would need replacing to carry out the repair. And I cant see 
anything on file to counter this - although I note Mr G says he was happy not to have this 
part repaired. But the attending repairer needs to consider the claim as a whole, not just as a 
partial repair. And as such having to replace the plastic moulding brings the scope of the 
claim outside the definition of minor cosmetic repair as per the definition in the policy. I also 
note that the panel is deemed to be distorted, and the scratch measurements are deemed 
outside the scope of cover provided. 
The distortion is also supported by the report that accompanies the job. It says, Rear 
bumper has hit a wall, the damage is down through three parts painted textured trim and 
silver matte finish lower trim all damaged heavily and distorted also a bulge on top it would 
need to be stripped out for a respectable repair.
I can completely understand Mr G frustration. He feels short-changed and feels that the 
policy is worthless. But if the attending repairer deems this repair outside of the scope of 
cover the policy provides, unless he has made an error, we wouldnt ask Lloyds to step in. 
The attending repairer who deals with this type of repair everyday has made a call based on 
his level of knowledge, and I cant see that any errors have been made. This is not an 
accident repair policy. Its a cosmetic repair policy, and the scope for repair is limited to a 
smart cosmetic repair or a touch-in repair. Because of this Im satisfied no error was made 
and I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more.
Ive also looked at what Lloyds have said about the £250 contribution. This contribution only 
comes into play if a minor cosmetic repair cant be carried out by the attending repairer. 
The policy says In the event that a Cosmetic Repair or Touch-in Repair cannot be used to 
repair Minor Cosmetic Damage on Your Vehicle under this policy, the policy will contribute 
up to a maximum of £250 including VAT towards the cost of having a conventional body 
shop repair carried out whereby the Minor Cosmetic Damage has been repaired as a result. 
This is subject to being provided an invoice from a VAT registered repairer for the work 
carried out. 
The key to this is that the damage must be deemed minor cosmetic damage. But given the 
observations and findings given in the report submitted by the attending repairer, this 
damage is not deemed minor cosmetic damage and as such Lloyds would not be obliged 
to make a contribution. Because of this and further to what Ive said previously, I wont be 
asking Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 Derek Dunne
Ombudsman