DRN-2575802
complaint
Mr and Mrs G say that Nationwide Building Society sold them a number of payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies alongside four loans.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out four PPI policies alongside loans taken out in 1994, 95, 96, and 99. 
For the first three loans they paid a monthly amount for the policies, and the policy taken out 
in 1999 was paid for as part of the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G say that they were led to believe that by taking out the PPI policies with their 
loans that they would be looked on more favourably  and would be more likely to be 
approved for the lending. They say that they werent told that the PPI policies were optional. 
They also say that they werent offered two sets of figures to consider showing the cost 
difference between taking out the polices or deciding not to opt for PPI.
I cant know what was said at the time  and due to the time that has passed, Nationwide no 
longer have paperwork from the meetings that took place, or the loan agreements that were 
signed at the time Mr and Mrs G took out their loans and PPI policies. But this isnt unusual 
for events that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely.
However, Nationwide has provided us with sample agreements that were in use at the time, 
which show the information that Mr and Mrs G would have likely been presented with. I can 
see on each of these agreements that the PPI is presented as Optional Credit Insurance  
showing the separate cost of the PPI to the amount that Mr and Mrs G would be paying for 
the loans themselves. 
Nothing on these sample agreements suggests that a loan would be more likely to be 
approved if PPI was taken  and Mr and Mrs G wouldve had to sign this paperwork in order 
to get their loans. So even if they had been told by the Nationwide representative that their 
loan applications would be looked on more favourably by taking the PPI, I think that they 
couldve questioned this at the time.
And taking everything in to account, I think that Nationwide did make Mr and Mrs G aware 
that they had a choice in taking out the PPI polices, and that they chose to do so.
Nationwide didnt provide advice or recommendations about the suitability of the PPI polices 
it sold to Mr and Mrs G  it wasnt a service that it offered. But it did need to give Mr and 
Mrs G enough information about the PPI policies for them to decide if they thought that they 
were right for them. 
Its possible that some of this information might not have been as clear as it shouldve been 
 but Mr and Mrs G dont appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policies 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks like the policies 
couldve been useful for them.
I understand that Mr and Mrs G say that they shouldve been given financial advice  but 
Nationwide didnt have to do so, and as Ive explained above, it wasnt a service that 
Nationwide offered. If Mr and Mrs G thought that they needed financial advice, they couldve 
sought this elsewhere. 
Ive taken in to account everything that Mr and Mrs G have said, including what they have 
said about it being likely that the individuals that sold them the PPI policies would have been 
influenced by KPI (Key Performance Indicators) incentives to sell them the PPI policies. 
I dont know what KPIs Nationwide may or may not have had in place at the time for its 
representatives  but businesses are allowed to sell and promote products as part of its 
strategy. And as Ive explained above, I feel that Mr and Mrs G were given a choice in taking 
out their PPI policies  so this point doesnt change my opinion.
Ive also considered what Mrs G has said about her other complaint about Nationwide being 
upheld. But Ive only looked at this complaint  and each complaint is looked at separately. 
So, Im not able to comment on why this other complaint may have been upheld. 
other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission paid on a PPI policy. And 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the rules for financial businesses  
introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow when theyre looking at 
PPI complaints which meant that business would sometimes need to refund consumers 
some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. And from what Ive seen 
these dates dont apply to the loans that Mr and Mrs G took out. So, the rules and guidance 
put in place dont apply here, and I dont think that Nationwide needs to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their PPI polices.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman