DRN-3049028
The complaint
Mr M complained that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with loans which 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr M with loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan status Amount Term 
(months)Monthly 
repayment
1 05/06/2018 Repaid on 
31/7/2018 £2,500 48 £128.29
2 14/08/2018 Outstanding £7,000 60 £275.93
When Mr M complained to Bamboo it said it had carried out creditworthiness and 
affordability assessments before agreeing to provide these loans which showed they were 
affordable and its lending decisions were fair. Nonetheless, as a gesture of goodwill, 
Bamboo offered to waive some interest on the outstanding loan which would reduce the 
overall cost and shorten the loan term.   
Mr M didn't feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.    
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended upholding it. He set out the 
steps Bamboo needed to take to put things right. 
As far as I can see, it appears Mr M is happy with what the investigator has recommended.
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said:
Mr Ms income was verified for both loans and showed he had sufficient income to be 
able to sustainably afford each loan
Bamboo was aware of a recent £5,000 loan Mr M had taken out and had included 
this as part of its affordability calculation
a third of Mr Ms credit was on a Hire Purchase agreement which he was paying 
perfectly
no cash advances were within six months of the application date
loan 2 was a guarantor loan offered with a significantly reduced APR
an up to date credit report for Mr M shows no detriment has been caused by 
Bamboos lending decisions 
between loans 1 and 2, the number of Mr Ms active accounts had remained 
consistent at 7 and he was continuing to repay his credit well, with no evidence of 
financial hardship
checks on loan 1 were proportionate
by loan 2, Bamboo had the benefit of Mr Ms previous history, the loan was for debt 
consolidation and the amount was sufficient to clear all of Mr Ms revolving credit.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Ms case.
Like our investigator, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided either of these loans. Ill 
explain why I say this.
Loan 1
Bamboo asked Mr M some questions about his income and expenditure. Bamboo did its 
own checks, which included using an online tool to verify Mr Ms income. It obtained 
information about Mr Ms credit history and relied on statistical information about how much 
someone in Mr Ms position typically spent each month on basic essentials. Bamboo relied on information gathered that suggested Mr Ms net monthly income was 
around £1,868. Using national average figures to reflect his living costs, plus the amount 
Mr M said he was paying towards his housing costs, and after also allowing for Mr Ms 
spending on his other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that Mr M would still have 
net monthly disposable income of approximately £606. So the loan monthly repayments 
looked affordable for him. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability of this 
loan before it agreed to lend to Mr M. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Bamboo 
carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr M were, broadly speaking, reasonable and 
proportionate, in the circumstances. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision 
when it lent to Mr M based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that Mr M already had a 
total outstanding credit balance of £22,407  which I think was a substantial amount of debt 
for someone with Mr Ms earnings. And it was clear that he had used up almost all his 
available credit  his balance to limit ratio was 99%. Bamboo was able to see that he was 
making full use of his overdraft limits on two current accounts and the account history 
showed that this had largely been the case for many months  the combined debt on these 
accounts when Mr M applied for loan 1 was £3,241. So Bamboo could see that he wasnt 
making any significant inroads into repaying this debt. As well as this, Bamboo saw that Mr 
M had taken out a £5,000 loan within the previous 3 months. It was also evident that Mr M 
had a history of taking out expensive loans and that he had relied on taking out cash 
advances on his credit cards within the previous 12 months  which Bamboo wouldve 
known was an expensive way to obtain cash.  
To my mind, all this information suggested that Mr M was likely having problems managing 
his money and already struggling with debt. 
This loan was taken out for the purpose of paying for home improvements so it would 
increase Mr Ms total credit balance. 
I dont think that anything Mr M had told Bamboo when he took out this loan was sufficient to 
explain or rebut what Bamboo saw from its own credit checks. And I dont think, based on 
what Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo saw enough to reasonably be 
satisfied that Mr M was going to be able to make the repayments for this loan in a 
sustainable way over the four year term. I think that Bamboo shouldve realised that this loan 
wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr M when it was evident that he was already 
making no real headway towards clearing his outstanding debts and likely to struggle to get 
through the month without needing to rely further on credit, given that his overdraft amount 
significantly exceeded his monthly income.
All this leads me to conclude that Bamboo should not have provided loan 1. 
Loan 2
When Mr M applied for loan 2, Bamboo obtained a bank statement from him and also 
carried out the same affordability and creditworthiness checks as it had done before 
providing loan 1.
It recorded his net pay as £1,750, used statistical information to assess his likely living 
expenses at around £264.50 and worked out that he was paying £676.85 towards 
servicing debt. This led Bamboo to calculate that Mr Ms net disposable income would be 
around £532 after he had made his monthly repayment for loan 2.But Bamboo needed to do more than assess affordability according to a strict pounds and 
pence calculation  it needed to think about Mr Ms overall financial situation and take into 
account what it knew about his use of credit. And whilst I've thought carefully about what 
Bamboo has said, I dont think that Bamboo made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
Bamboos credit checks showed that Mr M continued to be very substantially 
overdrawn at the bank. His use of credit showed concerning hallmarks of financial 
difficulty  the credit report Bamboo acquired when Mr M applied for loan 2 continued 
to show that he was still using 99% of his available credit and further demonstrated his 
established record of reliance on high cost credit. So, to my mind, the fact that Mr M 
had repaid loan 1 early wasnt any indication of an overall improvement in his financial 
situation. I think Bamboo ought reasonably to have considered that taking out and 
repaying that loan early was a further sign of financial instability  particularly given 
that Mr M was now applying to Bamboo for a much bigger loan. 
I think Bamboo should have thought carefully about the fact that the longer term was most 
likely Mr Ms preferred arrangement for loan 2 in order to keep down the cost of the monthly 
repayments even though this added significantly to the overall loan cost. Had Mr M really 
had the amount of disposable income that Bamboo calculated then it seems unlikely to me 
that he would have willingly chosen to pay more for the loan than he needed to.
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable to Bamboo, I think all this information 
painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money problems effectively and it 
included clear warning signs that Mr M might be experiencing financial difficulty. I think its 
fair to say that Bamboo saw information that was seriously at odds with what Mr M had said 
about his financial situation.
Mr Ms recent borrowing track record suggested he was reliant on taking out expensive 
credit and stuck in a cycle of debt. 
I've taken into account that Bamboo was reassured by Mr Ms payment record on loan 1 and 
it understood loan 2 was for the stated purpose of debt consolidation - in other words, it 
would be used to pay other debt. And Ive noted what Bamboo said about how loan 2 
couldve been used to help Mr M. But I think the scale of his debts, compared to the much 
smaller value of the loan, would suggest that he would remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. 
And I think thats borne out by the fact that the credit checks Mr M sent us show that he took 
out three further high-cost loans in the three months after taking out loan 2. It looks to me 
like Mr M was borrowing from one high cost lender to repay other high cost credit and 
effectively moving his debt between lenders. This supports my view that loan 2 wasnt 
sustainably affordable for him and he didnt have the financial resources to meet his debt 
repayments without relying on other credit to do this.
Ive thought carefully about everything Bamboo has said  including its comments made in 
response to our investigators view. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr Ms financial situation improved in the months 
following these loans. 
Bamboo hasnt shown me that it knew which debt was going to be repaid by loan 2 and it 
didnt have control over how the loan was used. Even if it was applied to pay other debt, all 
the indications were that Mr M was reliant on regularly taking out new credit after repaying 
previous borrowing. And the £7,000 loan amount was insufficient to make any real impact on 
his overall debt. Bamboo said an up to date credit report shows that no detriment has been caused by its 
lending decisions I think its fair to say it doesnt show improvement in his financial situation. 
But balances on loans/instalment credit are up by £5,239 since loan 2 was taken out and 
total indebtedness has increased by £3,125. In this context, evidence of less reliance on 
taking cash advances and reduction in the balance to limit ratio from 99% to 90% and the 
fact Mr M still had the same number of active accounts as when loans 1and 2 were taken 
isnt enough for me fairly to be able to say that Mr Ms credit position improved overall or that 
Bamboos lending decisions did not cause detriment. I think the overall picture shows that 
Mr M is still very substantially reliant on expensive credit and stuck in a cycle of debt.  
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboos loans helped Mr M to 
improve his financial situation. For all the reasons I've explained, I think they shouldnt have 
been provided. So, as things stand, Im planning on upholding his complaint about both 
loans. 
As Mr M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M some other way. I think Bamboo showed forbearance when Mr M needed to 
vary his loan monthly repayments. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.
I appreciate that Bamboos goodwill offer was made in a genuine attempt to bring this 
complaint to an early resolution, but I think it needs to do more. For all the reasons I have 
explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to take the following steps to 
put things right. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr M hasnt been in touch again since I sent my provisional decision but its my 
understanding that he agrees with my decision to uphold his complaint.
Bamboo has confirmed that it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Bamboo for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed when he took out loans 1 and 2. But he has had to pay interest and charges on 
loans that shouldnt have been provided to him  which isnt fair or reasonable. Bamboo should buy back any outstanding debt sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. Otherwise, Bamboo should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given 
loans 1 and 2. The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file regarding these loans
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 1 and 2 and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman