DRN-1992754
 
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did after she
made claims on her legal expenses insurance policy in relation to issues she was having at
work. 
What happened
In February 2018 Miss G got in touch with DAS and said she wanted to make a claim for
disability discrimination against her former manager. She also wanted to make a claim
against her employer for a failure to make reasonable adjustments and disability
discrimination. There were some initial difficulties in finding panel solicitors to look into the
claims because of conflicts of interest. However, once these were resolved a firm from
DAS's panel was appointed.
Subsequently Miss G was dismissed by her employer and sought to bring a further claim for
unfair dismissal. The panel solicitors provided a report on all three claims in early 2019. This
said that they all had reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy terms). And
they queried whether a possible new issue in relation to deduction of wages would be
treated as a new claim with a separate indemnity limit.
DAS said all claims would be subject to one indemnity limit. In response to the complaint
Miss G then made it said this was because all three claims arose from one event; the breach
of Miss G's employment contract. And her policy said the most it would pay for claims arising
from the same originating cause was £50,000. However, it accepted it had been wrong to set
up three claims from the outset and should have communicated better with the panel
solicitors in relation to this. In recognition of the impact of that on Miss G it offered to pay her
£300.
Our investigator accepted that all three claims related to potential breaches of Miss G's
employment contract. And he thought the first two claims could reasonably be said to have
the same originating cause. But he noted the reason why Miss G had been dismissed was
because her employer had obtained a report that said she was difficult to work with. So he
thought this should be treated as a separate claim with its own indemnity limit.
Miss G agreed with what he said but DAS didn't. It said all the claims related to an alleged
breach of her employment contract. The policy says that events from the same originating
clause have one limit. And in this case the originating cause was the breach of the
employment contract. It also highlighted a decision from another ombudsman which it
believed supported its position.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint in April. In summary I said:
I've looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss G's policy. As DAS has highlighted these
say "the most we will pay for all claims resulting from one or more events arising at the same
time or from the same originating cause is £50,000, as shown in your policy schedule".
DAS has suggested because all three claims arose from a breach of Miss G's employment
contract the originating cause for all of them is the same and they should all be subject to a
single indemnity limit of £50,000. I don't agree with that argument. I accept all of the claims
arise from an alleged breach of Miss G's employment contract but I don't agree that means
the originating cause is the same. Applying DAS's argument would mean that all claims
arising from breaches of someone's employment contract, even if they were
completely unrelated and separated in time by a significant period, would be subject to a
single indemnity limit. I don't think that's a reasonable interpretation of the policy terms.
Looking at the policy wording which talks about events arising from the same originating
clause it seems to me the key question is whether the initial event (the difficulties Miss G
experienced with her then manager who she said hadn't made reasonable adjustments for
her disability) was the start of a chain of events which led to the subsequent claims being
made.
Given the second claim Miss G made stemmed from her dissatisfaction with how her
employer had dealt with the situation with her manager and a failure to take the grievance
she made seriously (as well as a failure to make reasonable adjustments) I agree with our
investigator that it's reasonable to say both of those claims have the same originating cause.
I understand Miss G also accepts that.
The issue is over the third claim which is about Miss G's subsequent dismissal. I appreciate
by the time this was made events had moved on and her previous manager was no longer
involved. And her employer had obtained a report allegedly based on comments made by
her colleagues. But I note Miss G made an application to the Employment Tribunal for
interim relief on the basis her dismissal was a result of a protected disclosure she made to
her employer in June 2018. That application was turned down by a judge. I appreciate there
is a relatively high test for a successful application but significantly in my view the judge
said the disclosure did not stand in isolation in an otherwise satisfactory working relationship
between Miss G and her employer but "it stands as one more part of a difficult and bitter
dispute pursued with vigour by the Claimant".
And I understand that following her difficulties with her previous manager Miss G has been
off work for some time and indeed it was that absence which prompted contact with her
employer about the calculation of a bonus; the protected disclosure followed on from this. I
appreciate there may have been good reasons why Miss G couldn't return to work but I think
that does make it more difficult to see the subsequent claim she made as being entirely
separate from the previous matters - there's simply no clear end or cut off point between the
issues that gave rise to her initial claim to DAS and her subsequent dismissal.
I also note the full particulars of claim following her dismissal are made against both her
employer and her former manager. And that claim alleges her employer had decided to
dismiss her "on the grounds of her disability, her grievance and the instigation of legal
proceedings". It references in some detail a 'Case Summary' document from August 2017
which formed part of the investigation of the grievance against her previous manager and
alleges this was used by her employer to end Miss G's contract of employment. None of that
suggests Miss G's claim for unfair dismissal was unrelated to or separable from the previous
claims she made.
Miss G has also said a claim of discrimination which relates to her unfair dismissal isn't the
same as one she brought against her former manager which related to his personal conduct
towards her. I appreciate the claims she's made do contain different elements. But that isn't
the issue here - the question is whether those claims have arisen from the same originating
cause. For the reasons I've explained I think they do and on that basis I think DAS has acted
in line with the policy terms in saying a single indemnity limit of £50,000 should apply to all
three of them. And I think it was fair to do so in this case.
However, I do agree DAS should have got that right from the outset. So I've gone on to thinkabout whether the £300 it's offered does enough to recognise the impact on Miss G of that
error. She's suggested if she'd known earlier there was only a single indemnity limit for all
claims she might have made different choices about which ones to pursue.
But at the point of first making these claims to DAS Miss G hadn't been dismissed by her
employer and wouldn't have known she would have another claim in relation to that. After
that did happen her solicitors provided a report on the prospects of success of her unfair
dismissal claim in March 2019. As the policy won't pay claims where that isn't the case Miss
G couldn't have known that any funding would be available until that was the case.
Once that was established DAS said the following month a single limit of indemnity would
apply to all three of these claims. So, while I do agree it shouldn't have registered separate
claims in the first place, given that timeline I don't think it is possible to say Miss G would
have acted differently if that had been done. And I think the £300 DAS has already agreed to
pay is fair in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS said it agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add. 
Miss G didnt agree. In summary she said the later claims werent from the same originating 
clause as the first claim (the discrimination by her former manager) and so shouldnt be 
restricted to a single indemnity limit. And she argued: 
The claim she sought to make about a discriminatory bonus practice wasnt specifically 
about her own situation but was also about the impact on disabled employees more 
generally  and this issue was too distant from her original claim to be linked to it;  
Her unfair dismissal claim stood as a claim in its own right. Although it had additionally 
been pleaded as an act of victimisation if that hadnt been done then the insurer would 
have funded it from a separate pot of cover and it was unfair that it wasnt doing so; 
The claim did name her former manager as a co-respondent but her employer had 
denied the dismissal was related to him and so this issue could only be determined as 
part of the proceedings. And the Employment Tribunal had declined to consolidate these 
claims which showed they regarded them as separate events;
The second claim she made (about her employer failing to make reasonable 
adjustments) was also separate to the original claim of her manager discriminating 
against her;
Her representative reported the new claims to DAS in September 2018 and was advised 
at that time there was indemnity available for these. Significant costs were incurred 
between then and DAS making clear that only one pot of indemnity would be available. 
Miss G argued that if shed been told when the claims were reported that only one pot of 
indemnity would be provided shed have focussed on the higher value third claim.  
So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about Miss Gs argument that her second claim (about her employer failing 
to make reasonable adjustments) was separate from the claim she made about discrimination by her manager. I dont think it was. Ive reviewed again the paperwork Miss G 
submitted as part of that Employment Tribunal claim and when describing the detail of her 
claim she outlines what she sees as her employers failure to investigate her concerns about 
her manager. 
I appreciate Miss G also raises the withdrawal of a reasonable adjustment but I dont think 
that can be separated from her other concerns about the actions of her former manager and 
her employers response to that. So I think DAS was right to say this claim had the same 
originating cause as the one against her manager. 
Turning to the third claim Miss G made which related to her unfair dismissal, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I appreciate by the time this was made events had moved on and her 
previous manager was no longer directly involved. And I recognise that ultimately it will be 
for an Employment Tribunal to determine the merits of her claim. I also appreciate those 
claims havent been consolidated by the Tribunal. So it may have concluded there were 
separate causes of action. 
But the issue I need to decide is whether DAS did anything wrong in deciding the claims had 
the same originating cause, as set out in Miss Gs policy. And I dont think this claim does 
stand on its own. Its made against both her employer and her former manager. And the 
particulars said the decision to dismiss was made "on the grounds of her disability, her 
grievance and the instigation of legal proceedings". As I said previously it also references in 
some detail a 'Case Summary' document from August 2017 which formed part of the 
investigation of the grievance against her previous manager and alleges this was used by 
her employer to end Miss G's contract of employment.  
I dont think it was unreasonable of DAS to take the claim as put by Miss Gs representatives 
into account when deciding whether this stemmed from the same originating cause as her 
previous claims. And it remains my view that theres no clear end or cut off point between 
the issues that gave rise to Miss Gs initial claim to DAS and her subsequent dismissal.
I note the comments Miss G has made about the protected disclosure she made in relation 
to a bonus. But I think its difficult to conclude thats a separate matter when the judge who 
considered the application for interim relief said it stands as one more part of a difficult and 
bitter dispute pursued with vigour by the Claimant". Overall my view remains that DAS didnt 
treat Miss G unfairly when deciding the claims she made did have the same originating 
cause. 
Of course it didnt get that right when Miss G got in touch with it about the claims. And 
Miss G says if shed been given clearer information shed have focussed on the higher value 
unfair dismissal claim. However, in order for any funding to be provided its a requirement of 
the policy that a claim needs to have reasonable prospects of success. That wasnt 
confirmed in respect of these claims until March 2019. 
So up until that point there was a risk to Miss G that any costs shed incurred wouldnt be 
covered by the policy at all. And she still chose to pursue all of them. So while I accept its 
possible she might have made different choices if shed been given clearer information about 
the indemnity limit I dont think its likely. And I feel the £300 DAS has agreed to pay is a fair 
way of recognising the impact on Miss G of what it got wrong. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because I think DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited has already done enough to put things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman