DRN-4003463
The complaint
Mr P complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Darwin failed to repair his car appropriately 
after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and the facts arent in dispute, so 
I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Darwin has admitted it failed to provide the service it expected and there were delays 
in rectifying the repairs to Mr Ps car.
Darwin apologised, agreed for the rectification of the repairs to be done at a location 
suitable to Mr P, arranged for an external valet to help resolve the issues and offered 
£75 compensation. I think this is sufficient to put things right for the mistakes made. 
Mistakes do happen, the fact Mr P had mentioned the rectification issues on 
numerous occasions, while inconvenient, doesnt lead me to think an increased 
amount of compensation is due. Mr Ps usage of his car wasnt significantly impacted 
by the issue and Darwin rectified it by arranging for the repairs to be done at a 
location suitable to Mr P so it tried to cause him as little inconvenience as it could. 
Mr P has raised concerns about Darwin paying slightly more compensation for a 
subsequent issue with the car which needed to be rectified, which he didnt think was 
as problematic as the initial issue. 
However, this issue doesnt form part of this complaint so Im not able to comment on 
the fairness of the offer made. Ive looked at what Darwin has done to resolve this 
complaint and Im satisfied what it has offered is fair and in line with what I would 
expect in the circumstances here.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited trading 
as Darwin. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman