DRN-3172682
The complaint
Mr T says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr T took out a loan from TFS on 20 December 2017. It was for £3,000 over 60 months. The 
monthly repayment was £103.33 and the total repayable was £6,199.80. 
Mr T says TFS was one of the few places that would lend to him due to his poor credit 
history and he struggled to make the repayments. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said TFSs checks were
not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt affordable for
Mr T.
TFS disagreed with the investigators view, saying it was entitled to rely on the information 
Mr T provided and this did not show Mr T was struggling financially at the time.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr T. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr T could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr T. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr T, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr T before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income and his monthly living costs. It verified his benefits and discounted income that 
could not be evidenced.  It checked his credit file to understand his existing credit 
commitments and his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was car repairs and home improvements. From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr T 
would have sufficient monthly disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. I accept, as TFS argues, that Mr Ts 
credit check didnt show he was over-indebted or have such a level of adverse data that it in 
itself it was a reason to decline Mr Ts application. But Mr T was entering into a long-term 
commitment and would need to make his monthly repayments for five years. So I would 
expect that TFS would want to independently check all of the financial information Mr T 
declared before it agreed to lend to him. I cant see it verified his declared living costs. 
Overall, I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to independently check the actual 
state of Mr Ts finances before agreeing a five-year loan.
However, its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Ts complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown TFS and consider if it ought to
have realised that Mr T most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Ts bank statements. This is one way TFS could have gathered the
information I think it needed on Mr Ts financial situation.
The investigator set out in his view why he had reached the conclusion that the statements 
showed that Mr T did not have the disposable income TFS had calculated and was in fact 
having problems managing his money. He explained that in September 2017 Mr T spent 
140% of his monthly income on gambling transactions, 230% in October 2017 and 143% in 
November 2017. He also provided the total pound values for each month. So he found there 
was a high risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr T. In response to this TFS said it could not comment on these findings as it had not seen the 
bank statements. But I think the detail the investigator provided gives the lender a fair 
summary of the relevant transactions on the statements and what it would most likely have 
seen had it completed fuller financial checks. 
Where customers provide personal information such as bank statements in the course of 
making a complaint, we dont typically share the information in full. This is in line the 
provision set out in DISP 3.5.9 which states that the Ombudsman may accept information in 
confidence (so that only an edited version, summary or description is disclosed to the other 
party) where he considers it appropriate. 
I agree with investigators findings and so it follows I think that if TFS had completed 
proportionate checks, it would have realised the loan was sustainably unaffordable for Mr T 
and that he was unlikely to be able to repay it without borrowing further or suffering other 
adverse financial consequences. So as a responsible lender it would have decided not to 
approve his application.
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr T to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr T made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance 
TFS should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr T a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman