DRN-2604532
The complaint
Mr R complained about advice given by Lairgate Financial Ltd (Lairgate) regarding his 
pension which meant he paid more tax than he needed to.
What happened
Mr R said in September 2017 he took advice from Lairgate and in October 2017 it 
recommended a pension transfer. He said it didnt fully explain how pension income would 
be treated for tax purposes. This meant that in one year he had to pay around £5,000 in 
higher rate tax. He wanted Lairgate to pay this as he couldve avoided it by taking the 
pension income over several years.
Lairgate said its report said that his intention was to access a lump sum initially, until the new 
tax year and then to draw income over successive tax years without going over the basic 
rate tax threshold. Its role was only to facilitate the transfer to a new provider with the 
intention he would self service his withdrawals. It was clear it had discussed how to phase 
withdrawals to avoid exceeding the basic rate tax threshold. It wasnt involved in the further 
withdrawals as these were dealt with by the new provider.
The investigator said she thought Lairgate had discussed the approach to phasing income 
over several years for tax. It was not involved with or on notice, nor asked to provide any 
further advice or warning about the further transactions which were dealt with directly with 
the new provider. She didnt think it needed to explain specifically how his tax would be 
calculated. He had cashed in three smaller pensions that were subject to tax. There had 
been discussions about tax with Lairgate and Pensions Wise (where the notes suggest tax 
was a topic). She thought it was fair to say he ought reasonably to have been aware that tax 
would be charged on withdrawals other than on the tax-free cash element, which he had 
already taken. Lairgate were not required to provide a breakdown of how tax would be 
calculated on withdrawals.
Lairgate didnt make any further comments.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he wasnt told that the pension money would be added to wages 
and the two combined to take him into a higher tax bracket depending on how much was 
drawn. If this had been explained he would not have taken so much pension in one tax year. 
He didnt have any issue about the transfer to the new provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint related to an income withdrawal from Mr Rs policy with the new provider. 
Lairgate werent involved with it as the move to the new provider had been completed.
I have reviewed the papers. The covering letter that accompanied the advice report 
recommending the transfer, says Mr R did not require any ongoing service from Lairgate. 
The report states that the intention is to access a lump sum initially, until the new tax year, 
then you plan to draw the remainder over successive tax years, without going over the basic 
rate tax threshold
It is clear from this that the income withdrawals would need to be phased over several years 
to achieve tax efficiency around the basic rate income tax threshold. I think this makes clear 
that attention will need to be given to that threshold in deciding how to draw any income. It 
seems that Mr R understood this but made a mistake in calculating the amount he could take 
subject to basic rate tax.
The report itself reinforces that this as it says you can take the tax fee lump sum initially, 
with a view to drawing further lump sums within your basic rate tax band each year, to draw 
the funds in the most tax efficient way possible.
The report is clear that Lairgate wont be involved going forward. It comments that  Due to 
taking this approach, you were clear that no ongoing support or advice was needed and 
having accessed pensions in this way recently, you are completely aware on the risks and 
taxation elements involved.
Elsewhere it says, As a result of the above and the fact he fully understands the taxation 
and consequences, he does not wish to take up any ongoing advice from us and he is aware 
any future decisions he makes after the initial advice is done are his own.
No ongoing adviser charges were payable because of this approach.
From all of the above I think there was no intention that Lairgate should be involved in 
providing advice about further income withdrawals and it wasnt responsible for doing so. 
However, Mr R is arguing that had Lairgate fully explained the position on income 
withdrawals he would not have drawn as much as he did and not incurred a higher rate tax 
liability. In particular, he hadnt appreciated his normal wages would be added to the pension 
income to determine his tax rate.
I have considered whether the references to being aware of the taxation consequences and 
the taxation elements involved meant he knew how to complete the calculations himself or 
just that he was aware of the issues. On balance I think the elements refer to the need to be 
aware of the thresholds and the consequences refer to paying more tax than desired. I think 
Mr R was aware, as his aim was not to exceed the basic rate threshold, otherwise he would 
not have made this complaint. However, it seems he didnt know how to complete the 
calculation correctly.
I have considered whether as part of its advice Lairgate should have given a worked 
example which would have identified the issue of his taxable pay being included and 
enabled Mr R to do the calculation himself. But I dont think I can reasonably assume it 
should have. I say that because the main purpose of the report was to advise Mr R about 
taking money from his pension to meet a particular need. As part of that advice it highlighted 
the issues to consider when drawing further income and the need to phase this over several 
tax years. But it was clear it would not be implementing the withdrawals or advising on them 
going forward. 
I dont think there was a need to model the calculation for Mr R and in the context of the 
advice I wouldnt have expected it to do so. Even if I am wrong in that, it could have been 
unhelpful to do so. I say that because tax calculations change from year to year due to 
changes in law and allowances and the method used to calculate the tax liability. So even if 
Lairgate had provided a worked example Mr R wouldnt have been able to rely on it to calculate the position for the following year. Nor could Lairgate have anticipated all sources 
of taxable income that he might have. This is a further reason why modelling a detailed 
calculation for a future withdrawal of unknown amount would not have been useful.
I also note the intention was that the new provider would provide all the support he needed, 
so he could reasonably have asked them to assist in confirming his assumptions in 
calculating the amount he wanted to withdraw.
It is unfortunate that Mr R didnt appreciate his other taxable income would be taken into 
account, but I dont think that was Lairgates fault.
For the reasons given I dont think Lairgate did anything wrong and I am not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman