DRN-3711838
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about delays in transferring his individual savings account (ISA), self-
invested pension plan (SIPP) and trading account from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management (HLAM) to another provider (Company A).
What happened
In late April 2021, Mr B wanted to transfer a large number of his unit holdings across his 
three accounts from HLAM to Company A. He requested the transfers and then waited for 
them to complete. On each account, the transfer took roughly two months which was longer 
than Mr B was expecting. 
Mr B complained to both HLAM and Company A while the transfer was still in progress. He 
was upset about how long the transfer was taking, saying he thought an in-specie ISA 
transfer was supposed to complete within 30 days, and that the transfers of his SIPP and 
trading account were similarly delayed.
HLAM responded to the complaint in late July 2021, after the transfers were complete. They 
said they were sorry they hadnt been able to fully complete the transfers of the ISA and 
trading account within the six-week timeframe theyd expect but noted most of the stock had 
been transferred within that time. And they said theyd refunded around £100 of 
management fees in acknowledgment of the delays. They also paid Mr B £100 in recognition 
of the inconvenience Mr B had experienced because of the delays.
In relation to the SIPP, HLAM initially said they didnt receive the request from Company A 
until the end of May 2021. They said the transfer was then processed efficiently and 
completed in late June  so any delays in the funds appearing in Mr Bs account with 
Company A were due to the allocation of units on Company As side. After a query from 
Mr B, HLAM corrected their previous response. They said theyd actually received the 
request a couple of weeks earlier, in mid-May  but the transfer was still completed within six 
weeks. They paid Mr B an additional £100 for the additional inconvenience  so a total of 
£200 plus the refund of fees.
Company A responded to the complaint in mid-July 2021. They said that the delays had 
been caused by HLAM  they said HLAM hadnt sent instructions to the fund managers and 
hadnt provided deal references to Company A to allow Company A to properly track the 
transfers. After Mr B involved our service, Company A reviewed the complaint again. They 
said theyd caused a delay of five working days on the SIPP and offered £100 as 
compensation. 
Mr B wasnt happy so he brought complaints to our service about both HLAM and Company 
A. He felt that both businesses were blaming each other and coming to our service was the 
only way to get to the bottom of it. Mr B said there had been an extended period where both 
businesses said they didnt have his funds. He wasnt able to monitor the performance of his 
holdings, or trade. And he spent a lot of time chasing both businesses to get the funds 
transferred. So he wanted an explanation, apology and additional compensation to 
acknowledge this. 
Our investigator looked into things. He said he could see thered been delays on both sides. 
He thought HLAM had done enough to compensate Mr B for their delays but that Company 
A needed to pay Mr B an additional £100 for the inconvenience caused by their errors. He 
said he wouldnt suggest an award for Mr B being unable to monitor performance or trade 
because Mr B could have called HLAM to trade had he wanted to. Mr B wasnt happy with 
our investigators view so he asked for an ombudsmans decision  and its come to me.
In his reply to our investigators view, Mr B said there were some funds to which hed had no 
access because HLAM were saying the funds had been transferred while Company A said 
they hadnt. Mr B said this was during a period of high volatility when hed wanted to sell at 
least 50% of his holding but wasnt able to. So he felt the delays had cost him a significant 
loss in terms of the valuation of his holding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im aware Mr B might be disappointed with the outcome, Im not upholding his 
complaint about HLAM. Although they could have done things better with Mr Bs transfers, 
Im satisfied theyve done enough to put things right for Mr B. Ill explain why. Ive considered 
representations and evidence from both businesses in writing this decision.
What went wrong
Mr Bs transfer involved moving units in a large number of different funds and stocks from 
one provider to another. The process is quite complicated and requires communication 
between the two companies, the consumer, the fund manager for each fund, and also the 
custodian working for Company A. With such a large number of individual transfers to be 
made, its perhaps not surprising that some small errors were made. For example, 
Company A provided some incorrect re-registration details for a couple of funds. And HLAM 
got the conversion instructions wrong for one fund. But the problems with Mr Bs transfers go 
beyond these minor errors. 
Ive been through the timeline and documentation in detail. Although Mr B has complained 
about the overall timeline and delays, it seems his primary concern was individual transfers 
of funds which didnt go well. Ive considered these below:
Fund B  these units were transferred out of Mr Bs HLAM SIPP on 10 June but didnt 
appear in his Company A SIPP until almost a month later. I can see HLAM provided 
details of the transfer to Company A several times, including on 18 June, the day 
after Mr B told HLAM the units hadnt appeared in his Company A account. The 
problem seems to have been that the units werent allocated promptly by Company 
As custodian. So I cant hold HLAM responsible for the issues with the transfer of 
these units. 
Fund L  Mr B held units in this fund in both his ISA and his trading account. At one 
stage the funds disappeared from what Mr B could see on his HLAM account  but 
then they didnt appear in his Company A account. A few days later they reappeared 
in his HLAM account  causing Mr B to worry. HLAM have apologised and said this 
was an administrative error and was visual only  the funds were actually in his 
account throughout the period even though Mr B couldnt see them.
The units in Fund L werent transferred until much later than most of the others. The 
fund manager needed confirmation from Company A as well as HLAM and it seems Company A didnt provide this promptly. I can see HLAM were chasing Company A 
so I cant say they did anything wrong in this respect.
Fund F  after an initial issue with Company A providing incorrect re-registration 
details for this fund, HLAM transferred the units out on 2 June. But they didnt appear 
in Mr Bs Company A accounts for around three weeks. As with Fund B, the problem 
seems to have been with the allocation of units by Company As custodian  so I 
cant hold HLAM for the issues with the transfer of these units.
Fund A  when instructing the conversion of these funds, HLAM got the number of 
units wrong. Mr B noticed this when corresponding with Company A and so an 
additional manual transfer was done to transfer the rest of the units. HLAM resolved 
the issue quickly once it was spotted so it caused limited delay, but its 
understandable that the error would have worried Mr B.
So, my findings on the transfer of these funds is that HLAM made two errors  the apparent 
removal of Fund L from Mr Bs accounts, and getting the unit numbers wrong on the 
conversion of Fund A. In addition to this, I can see that for the SIPP and the trading account 
it took HLAM around two weeks to instruct conversions. Company A chased HLAM twice in 
that period. Whilst not an unreasonable timeframe, HLAM could have got the transfers 
moving a bit quicker. 
Putting things right
Mr Bs said the transfer was extremely stressful because there was an extended period 
during which both businesses said they didnt have his funds. And he feels that hes lost out 
financially because he couldnt monitor performance or trade those units. He also spent a lot 
of time chasing both businesses to get the funds transferred.
As a service we consider financial loss, and compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
HLAM have refunded Mr Bs direct financial loss  the platform fees for June which he 
wouldnt have paid if the transfers had gone through as quickly as they might have. Im 
satisfied theyve done enough in this respect.
Ive looked carefully at the correspondence and Mr Bs testimony and I cant consider asking 
either business to compensate Mr B for any financial loss in relation to not being able to 
trade during the transfer. This would apply only to those units which went missing  Mr B 
could have traded any of the other units throughout the transfer as most of the funds 
transferred across very quickly. Throughout his correspondence with both businesses Mr B 
only made one reference to wanting to trade  and this wasnt until 6 July, just a couple of 
days before the final units were allocated to his account. Theres no indication of quantities 
or prices. And he didnt make any trades for several months once the transfers were 
completed  so there isnt enough evidence for me to say he would have traded the missing 
units if they hadnt gone missing. 
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr Bs experienced. Transferring such a 
significant portfolio was always going to cause some stress and inconvenience. And I can 
see Mr B chose to involve himself in the detail of the transfer on a day to day basis so it can 
be hard to tell how much inconvenience each business actually caused Mr B. 
Looking at what HLAM could have done better  Ive thought about each point in turn:
The disappearance of Fund L from Mr Bs view of the account  I can understand 
that this would have been stressful for Mr B. Initially, hed have expected it to appear 
in his accounts at Company A and when it didnt, he had to chase it up  causing 
inconvenience. But this was a period of just a few days stress.The incorrect conversion amounts on Fund A  this is a small error which I think 
HLAM would have spotted and sorted quickly had Mr B not spotted it first. This was 
sorted within a couple of days, so again a short period.
Getting the transfers moving more quickly at the start of the process  I dont think 
this had any significant impact on Mr B. Had everything else gone smoothly the 
transfers might still have completed within the 4 - 6 week timeframe normally 
expected of a funds transfer. And Mr Bs explained that he was stressed when both 
businesses didnt have his funds. A short delay at the start of the process didnt 
impact this at all.
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied the £200 HLAM has already paid Mr B is a fair 
amount to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they caused.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman