DRN-4024087
The complaint
Mr G complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr G made a claim after some of his belongings were stolen whilst he was on holiday 
abroad. Mr G provided a recollection of what happened to Zurich, in summary he said:
He was separated from the rest of his group whilst out late at night. He decided to 
stop at a bench and ended up falling asleep. Mr G awoke shortly after to find some 
his belongings had been stolen.
Mr G says he didnt report the theft to the police straight away, as he was alone and 
stranded. His aim was to find his way back to the hotel as he was due to check out 
the next day. 
Mr G says he tried to report the incident to the police after returning to the UK  but 
the UK police couldnt help as the crime took place in another country. The police 
force in the country he travelled to couldnt help him either, as hed returned to the 
UK. 
Mr G says he later contacted the relevant embassies for assistance too.
Zurich didnt accept the claim as being valid. The insurer says Mr G didnt take reasonable 
care because he fell asleep and that he left his items unattended by doing so. Zurich also 
pointed out that Mr G failed to satisfy the policy term that required him to report the incident 
to the police within 24 hours. 
After Mr G complained, Zurich stood by its decision on the claim but paid him £75 
compensation for a delay it caused. Mr G remained unhappy and asked this service to get 
involved. 
Our investigator decided that Zurich declined the claim fairly. Mr G didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
The terms of the policy say that Mr G needs to take reasonable care to protect himself and 
his belongings. I think Zurich fairly decided that Mr G didnt take reasonable care and Ill 
explain why. 
Mr G says he fell asleep on a bench and this is when the theft took place. By doing so, I 
dont think Mr G took reasonable care. I accept that he didnt intentionally fall asleep, but this 
likely meant that Mr Gs awareness of his surroundings and ability to take care of himself 
and his belongings was significantly reduced. And the risk of something like theft increased. 
Crimes like this are usually opportunistic, so by falling asleep whilst in possession of 
valuable items, Mr G unintentionally allowed for an increased opportunity for the theft to 
occur.
Zurich also said the circumstances satisfied the definition of unattended under the policy 
terms. The terms define this as when you cannot see and are not close enough to your 
property or vehicle to stop it being damaged or stolen. I think Zurichs approach here was 
reasonable. By falling asleep, Mr G unintentionally placed his property under higher risk of 
being stolen and theres no way he wouldve been able to see what was happening with his 
belongings. This is what seemingly happened during this incident - Mr G didnt realise the 
theft took place until after he woke up.
I note Mr Gs comments to our investigator  about whether the same approach would apply 
to people who fall asleep elsewhere, while in possession of valuables. But my role is to 
decide whats fair based on the circumstances of this complaint. So I cant comment or make 
a finding on other unrelated scenarios. 
The terms of the policy require Mr G to have reported the theft to the police and obtain a 
report within 24 hours. Mr G says he was unable to do so at the time because his primary 
aim was to find his way back to the hotel, wait for the rest of his group to return and prepare 
to return to the UK. I appreciate that Mr G wouldve been distressed after discovering the 
theft and that he wouldve felt a degree of urgency, given he was due to travel back to the 
UK. 
However, Mr G told Zurich that he returned to the hotel around 3:00am and that the train 
station he was due to travel from was close to the hotel. I can also see his train back to the 
UK was scheduled to leave at 4.15pm that day. So it seems to me that Mr G had a 
reasonable amount of time to contact the local police before he was due to travel. 
Mr G says he didnt have access to things like the internet so he couldnt report the theft. But 
I havent seen anything that suggests the police couldve only been notified over the internet. 
And given he was able to return to his hotel successfully, I think Mr G couldve reasonably 
sought out help in contacting the police, if he needed it  for example, by speaking to hotel 
staff. 
I accept that, upon his return to the UK, Mr G tried to report the theft to the police as soon as 
he could. But by then, it had already been well over 24 hours. So I dont think its unfair that 
Zurich decided that Mr G failed to satisfy this part of the terms. 
In summary, Ive decided that Zurich fairly applied its terms when it decided not to settle this 
claim. So I wont be asking the insurer to review this claim again.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman