DRN-2157832
The complaint
Mr D has complained that the windscreen glass repairers under his motor policy with 
Highway Insurance Company Limited caused water damage to his car following a faulty 
windscreen glass repair.
What happened
Mr D bought his car in November 2019 and added it to his policy with Highway. It was noted 
that he bought it for £8,500. His policy covered him for social, domestic and pleasure and 
excluded use of his car to from his home to his workplace.
On 23 December 2019, Mr D made a claim for a new windscreen which was fitted by his 
policys glass repairers, which I shall call AG. 
Following an accident on 12 January 2020 the engineer (who was there to assess the 
accident damage) noted that Mr D had stripped the interior of his car. The engineer said Mr 
D told him this was due to water damage. 
Mr D then called AG on 1 February 2020 to say his windscreen was leaking given the faulty 
fitting of it back in December.
AG agreed the windscreen was leaking and replaced it. Mr D said this leak had caused 
damage to his car which was also the cause of the accident. So, AG agreed to have the 
damaged assessed. When the car was delivered to these assessors, Mr D also asked them 
to check his sunroof and its motor as well.  However, AG didnt agree this was part of the 
issues caused by the windscreen. AG arranged for Mr D to have a hire car at this time.
On 21 February 2020 Highways engineer assessed the car and following on from this AG 
said it wasnt responsible for any water damage from a leaking sunroof. It therefore offered 
Mr D a goodwill gesture of £500.
Mr D complained and eventually brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think AG 
or Highway needed to do anything further. Mr D disagreed so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
This complaint is complicated by the fact Mr D was involved in an accident on 12 January 
2020 and that he then had stripped out his car himself. However, I am only considering what 
if any damage was caused by the faulty installation of the windscreen by AG. 
Theres no dispute, given AG agrees, that their installation of the windscreen on 23 
December 2019 was faulty. And that they replaced this in February 2020 after Mr D 
contacted them to explain the windscreen was leaking. 
However, its also clear to me from the evidence of the engineer on 21 February 2020 that 
there were issues of water damage coming from the sunroof of Mr Ds car. The photos 
clearly show water damage in the roof material and the seal of the sun roof. The report also 
said the water from the sun roof had leaked down the A pillar getting into the ECU unit and 
corroding it. This is obviously unconnected to the windscreen. 
Further in the engineers report dated 22 January 2020 concerning the damage from the 
accident of 12 January 2020, that engineer clearly stated the following:
An ECU interrogation was not done as vehicle was part stipped (sic) & battery 
discounted re the the water leak the insured had from the sun roof.
.
insured confirmed they have a water leak from the roof that had damage the body 
control module so vehicle striped & battery discounted. Talked to insured
re damage to the front & agreed less then excess would not be worth claiming for this 
damage. He is dealing with the water leak & fixing the control module himself as 
nothing to do this this claim (possible the causes re the hand brake not going on at 
the time & this is not covered)
Mr D disagrees with this and now says theres no issue with the sun roof, but the 
photographic evidence of 21 February 2020 is clear plus the report of 22 January 2020 
confirms this is what Mr D said at that time. 
Im further persuaded Mr D knew he had problems with the sun roof prior to any of these 
other issues occurring. This is because he asked the garage to which AG brought his car to 
check for damage caused by the windscreen, to also fix the sun roof and its motor. There is 
no reason for Mr D to have asked this unless he was of the view then that something was 
wrong with the sun roof. AG further confirmed anything to do with the sun roof was not their 
responsibility, which I consider was correct. 
The video from Mr D showing the water leak from the windscreen shows the water leaking 
into the passenger side at the top. The ECU which is corroded due to water damage is 
located on the drivers side. Therefore, I fail to see how the leaking window on the passenger 
caused the damage to the ECU unit in such a short time period. Consequently, I dont 
consider there any likelihood that the faulty installation of the windscreen caused the 
damage to the ECU unit.
Mr D contended that the faulty ECU unit then permitted his handbrake to fail which caused 
the accident in which he was involved in January 2020. However, the evidence is that the 
ECU unit would have no effect on the handbrake. Further as Ive decided the faulty 
installation of the windscreen didnt affect the ECU, it follows I dont consider AG or Highway 
is responsible for this either.
Mr D has complained that the contents of his car and the soft furnishings all have mould, 
along with a pram and child seat. They may well do but considering the extent of the 
corrosion on the ECU due to the likely issues with the sun roof, I dont consider the same 
was caused only by the faulty installation of the windscreen, so I dont consider thats the 
responsibility of AG or Highway.AG ensured Mr D was given a hire car for the time it took them to ascertain if their faulty 
installation caused any further damage. I consider this reasonable. Once it had ascertained 
this, there was no duty on AG or Highway to continue to provide Mr D with a hire car. 
AG offered £500 compensation because of the faulty installation of the windscreen. Because 
theres no coherent evidence any of the other claims made by Mr D could have come from 
this faulty installation, I consider this more than reasonable in these circumstances, so I 
wont be asking Highway or AG to do anything more.
I understand and appreciate that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. But Mr D has 
failed to show that all the water damage to his car was caused by the installation of the faulty 
windscreen. Rather it seems very apparent to me on the evidence that most of the water 
damage had to have come from the faulty sun roof which Mr D acknowledged himself at the 
time had problems. 
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman