DRN-3316512
The complaint
Mr K complains about the actions of Hoist Finance UK Limited in collecting a debt.
What happened
Mr K took out some lending with a third-party, the debt was then sold to Hoist in July 2017.
Mr K made seven monthly repayments of £1 to the account between January 2018 and 
March 2019. After this, Mr K stopped making repayments to the account. 
Because Mr K hadnt made any repayments to the account since March 2019, and because 
Mr K hadnt responded to Hoists communication about repayment, Hoists solicitors wrote to 
Mr K on 5 December 2020 to let him know that it intended to start legal proceedings. Mr K 
didnt think this was fair and has said he finds this to be a malicious act by Hoist. And that 
Hoist should be doing more to rebuild Mr Ks faith in its business.
Mr K says that he feels as though Hoist should have put the account on hold while his other 
complaints were unresolved  and so no payments should have been due. Mr K would now 
like the opportunity to arrange a repayment plan with Hoist without it starting legal 
proceedings.
Mr K also complains about how Hoist has dealt with his complaint, and how it has dealt with 
a previous complaint he made. 
 
Because Mr K wasnt happy with how Hoist had dealt with things, he brought his complaint 
to this service. The complaint was looked into by an Investigator, who didnt think Mr Ks 
complaint should be upheld. They said they didnt think it was unfair of Hoist to take the 
decision to start legal proceedings, and they didnt think it was unfair of Hoist not to put the 
account on hold while the complaint was being investigated.
Mr K didnt agree with the Investigators view and because of this, the complaint was passed 
to me to make a decision on the matter. 
Before coming to my decision, I explained to Mr K that this service doesnt have the power to 
consider his complaint about how Hoist has dealt with his complaint and his previous 
complaint  as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. I also explained that I wouldnt 
be commenting on any aspect of Mr Ks previous complaint as this has already been 
answered in a separate complaint by this service. I explained to Mr K that the focus of my 
investigation would be around Hoist taking the decision to pursue Mr K for the debt through 
the courts, and Hoist not putting his account on hold while his complaint was being 
investigated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
I dont think its in dispute here that Mr K hasnt made a payment to the account in some time 
 the last payment that is recorded on Hoists internal systems was in March 2019 for £1. I 
appreciate that there has been some dispute over a cheque payment Mr K says he sent the 
following month in April 2019 (considered as part of a different complaint), but even if I 
accept that the last payment was made in April 2019, I cant see that there have been any 
repayments since this, or at least up until Hoist sent this service its file in September 2021. 
I can see that Hoist has tried to contact Mr K on many occasions to request that he makes a 
repayment, but Mr K didnt do this. I can see that Mr K has been in touch with Hoist a lot, but 
this contact appears to only relate to his complaints, and not to discuss repayment of the 
account. Given that no payments were made to the account by Mr K, despite Hoists 
attempts to contact him about repayment, I dont think it was unfair of Hoist to take the 
decision to start legal proceedings in an attempt to recover the debt. 
I appreciate Mr K doesnt think this is good customer service, and that Hoist ought to be 
doing more to try and rebuild Mr Ks confidence and faith in the company. But Mr K does 
owe a balance to Hoist that he hasnt repaid and hasnt made an attempt to repay for some 
time. Hoist are entitled to take steps to recover the money owed and so I cant agree that its 
actions have been unfair or unreasonable. 
I can also see that Mr K think thats Hoists actions here have been vindictive  but I havent 
seen any information to support this. There is a debt on this account that hasnt been repaid, 
I think its actions are more likely to be as a result of non-repayment of the account as 
opposed to anything else.
As far as Im aware, there hasnt yet been a county court judgement in relation to the debt, 
so Mr K should contact Hoist to agree a suitable repayment plan to avoid any further action 
being taken against him due to non-repayment. 
Mr K says that Hoist should have put the account on hold while his complaint was being 
investigated. I asked Mr K to send me any evidence he has to show Hoist agreed he 
wouldnt need to make any repayments while the complaint was ongoing  but he hasnt 
sent me anything of this nature. So, it isnt clear why Mr K thought he didnt have to keep up 
with repayments during this time. There is no requirement for a business to put an account 
on hold while a complaint is being investigated, and I havent seen anything to indicate that 
this was agreed between the parties. Therefore, repayments to the account remained due 
while his complaint was ongoing. I cant agree that it was unfair of Hoist to still request 
repayment during the time his complaints were being looked into. 
I have also noted that Mr K says he would like the account to be reset so that he can start 
afresh and recommence repayments. Hoist arent obliged to do anything like this, and I 
havent seen anything to that makes me think it should make an exception in this case. And 
so I wont be asking them to do anything more for Mr K here. 
Overall, I havent seen anything that persuades me that Hoist has treated Mr K unfairly in 
how it has attempted to recover the money owed, or by it not putting the account on hold. 
There is still an outstanding debt that is due to be repaid, and Mr K should contact Hoist to 
come to an agreement on a suitable repayment plan.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman