DRN-2722974
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr K and Mrs G paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr K, in case he 
was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr K and Mrs Gs mortgage application asked them whether theyd like to apply for PPI or 
turn it down. The option to apply for PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, 
and Mr K and Mrs G signed the form to confirm their choices. They signed and submitted a 
separate application specifically for PPI, where they chose what kind of cover they wanted. 
And they set up a direct debit to pay for the policy, separately to paying for the mortgage 
itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Lloyds sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr K or Mrs G were 
misled or unfairly pressured into having PPI here. As far as I can see, it looks like it wouldve 
been made clear that the PPI was optional. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr K 
and Mrs G aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr K and Mrs G, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr K was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ks work benefits 
and offered him more comprehensive cover, especially for when his benefits reduced to just 
a fraction of his normal pay. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment, and if Mr K and Mrs G had fallen behind on it they couldve lost their home. So 
it looks like the PPI could have really been useful for them in protecting their home and 
providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr K and Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr K and Mrs G chose to take out PPI, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr K wasnt affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it could have really come in useful in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr K and Mrs G could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman