DRN-3517038
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bought by Many Ltd unfairly requested an additional premium to change 
the payment date on his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T contacted Bought by Many in order to change the date that his policy premium was 
taken from his account. But Bought by Many said it wasnt able to do this, as its system 
didnt allow for it. It explained that when taking out the policy, Mr T wouldve been made 
aware that the payment date would be fixed to the start date of the policy. 
Bought by Many said that as a work-around it could set up a new policy for Mr T on the 
date he wanted the premium to be taken. It obtained a quote for him, which came to around 
£5 more a month than what he was paying. Mr T wasnt happy with this and he felt the call 
handler was being rude and sarcastic. So he raised a complaint and subsequently cancelled 
his policy, taking out cover elsewhere. He wants an apology and £30 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that it was outside our remit to 
comment on Bought by Manys internal procedures, and as it didnt offer the ability to amend 
the payment date she didnt think it could do anything more than what it had already offered. 
Mr T didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr T bought his policy, he was informed that his direct debit would come out of his 
account on the date his policy started. While I appreciate Mr T may have expected to have 
been able to change it, I dont think thats Bought by Manys fault. 
Bought by Many said its not able to change the date due to the design of its system and I 
think its explanation is reasonable. Instead, it offered to set up a new policy for Mr T on the 
date he wanted to make his payment. I think this offer was a reasonable alternative, which 
was made to help accommodate Mr Ts circumstances. 
I appreciate that the quote for the new policy was slightly more expensive than what Mr T 
was already paying, and I understand his reasons for not wanting to continue with it. But I 
cant fairly say that Bought by Many has done something wrong or unfair here, when the new 
policy was something it offered in order to give Mr T something that it didnt usually provide  
a new payment date.
Mr T is unhappy with the way he was spoken to by Bought by Manys staff. But having 
listened to the calls, I cant agree that he was treated in the way in which he feels he was. 
Its clear the members of staff were trying to help him, and its unfortunate that Mr T felt he 
had to end the call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman