DRN-3590354
The complaint
Miss K has complained that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network 
(PRIMIS), mis-sold an income protection policy to her. 
All reference to PRIMIS includes any agents or representatives acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss K bought an income protection policy through PRIMIS in 2018. The policy was sold on 
an advised basis. Miss K says the adviser made a mistake as she had correctly declared her 
smoker status but it had been incorrectly recorded. 
Miss K made a claim on the policy. But the insurer paid a reduced benefit based on Miss K 
being a smoker within the previous 12 months before the start of the policy. It said it would 
have offered a policy with reduced benefit if it had known about her smoker status. It also 
said Miss K could cancel the policy. Miss K agreed to the reduced benefit and kept the 
policy. She also said the adviser admitted the mistake and paid her an amount equivalent to 
the shortfall in benefit for her claim.
Miss K complained to PRIMIS. It didnt think the policy had been mis-sold but said the email 
from the adviser suggested that a mistake had been made in relation to the smoker status 
and so it offered to pay her £250 compensation for this. 
 
Unhappy, Miss K referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think the policy was mis-sold or that 
Miss K had suffered a financial loss as she had told us the adviser had made up the 
shortfall. In addition, the insurer had offered a policy based on Miss Ks correct smoker 
status which she accepted and so he didnt think PRIMIS needed to do anything further. 
Miss K disagreed and said the adviser had also told her that her smoker status would 
change after 12 months. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think PRIMIS needs to do anything. Ill explain why. 
My decision relates only to the complaint about PRIMIS and not the insurer. 
When a policy is sold on an advised basis, the seller must ensure the policy is suitable for 
the buyers circumstances and needs. 
Ive seen the fact find and demands and needs documents which confirm Miss K wanted to 
protect her income in the event of ill health. And she selected a monthly benefit of £600 per 
month. The policy had a one day deferred period which means Miss K would receive benefit 
almost straight away. This wasnt unreasonable as Miss K didnt have any other income or 
enhanced sick pay to rely on if she became too unwell to work. So based on this information, 
the policy was suitable for her needs. 
Smoker status
The fact find document confirms that Miss K wasnt a smoker and hadnt smoked within the 
last 12 months. However, Miss K had stopped smoking in September 2017 so the adviser 
should have recorded that she had smoked within the last 12 months. As a result of this, 
when Miss K made a claim on the policy, she didnt receive the full benefit amount and the 
insurer offered her a policy based on the correct smoker status. Miss K agreed to the policy 
change which resulted in a reduced benefit.
Miss K says her adviser admitted the mistake and made cash payments to her, as recorded 
on her bank statement. And she also provided an email from the adviser which suggested a 
mistake had been made. As the adviser personally made up the shortfall in the benefit Miss 
K was expecting to receive, I agree that she hasnt suffered a financial loss. And the insurer 
has confirmed it would have offered a policy with a reduced benefit had the correct smoker 
status been declared at the outset. So Miss K has already been put in the position she would 
have been in, had the mistake not occurred. 
Miss K also says the adviser told her that her smoker status would change after 12 months 
but there isnt any evidence of this. And as the insurer confirmed the new policy terms with 
her directly, I dont think PRIMIS needs to do anything further. I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold even though a mistake was made. The mistake was rectified and overall, the policy 
was still suitable albeit with a lower benefit amount based on Miss Ks smoker status.
PRIMIS offered to pay Miss K £250 compensation for the mistake made by the adviser. It 
isnt clear whether this has been paid but if it hasnt, its open to Miss K to accept that offer if 
she wishes.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman