DRN-1727427
The complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with RCI 
Finance (RCI) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject the car
What happened
Mrs S says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with RCI for a new car in December 
2018. She says there is a problem with the bodywork which RCI has offered to repair but 
she would like to reject the  car. She says the problem has been there since she got the car 
and had to take it back for repairs after just having it for six weeks.
RCI said an independent report was carried out in October 2019. This identified a factory 
fault which the manufacturer had offered to repair under warranty whilst providing a courtesy 
car. It said it would review the situation if the repair wasnt successful.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She found although Mrs S said the car was repaired 
after six weeks RCI had been unable to find any evidence of this. She accepted the 
inspection report found the issues would have been present at the point of sale. But  she felt 
it was fair to give one opportunity to repair since the fault had been identified more than thirty 
days after Mrs S had the car.
Whilst our investigator found RCI had dealt with the complaint appropriately she felt Mrs S 
had been put to some considerable stress and inconvenience and recommended RCI pay 
Mrs S £100 to reflect this. She also added that as the account was now in arrears, she 
hoped RCI and  Mrs S could agree a suitable repayment plan.
She recommended that repairs were arranged at no cost to Mrs S. And that RCI pay  Mrs S 
£100 compensation.
RCI accepted this view but Mrs S didnt. she said she had misunderstood the process and 
expected to be contacted for more information.
Mrs S said the car hadnt been used for six months now as she felt it was unsafe to drive. 
She said she reported the problem with the boot not opening the day she got the car and 
was told to take the car back to get this looked at which she did after approximately six 
weeks. She said at that point a lock was adjusted but a mechanic told her it was better but 
not perfect
She said it was around eight months later that the bumper started to come away. At this 
point she said she found out the car was mis aligned from manufacture and although the 
bumper was reattached was told this was likely to come away again. She says she tried to 
arrange for someone else to look at the car but that proved difficult to do as the dealership 
had no one available to do so. She said at this point she made RCI aware of the issue.
She said she had bought another car as having decided the car was unsafe to drive, she 
had been without a car for some time. She said her concern over a repair was that the £900 
quote for work would in her view only cover reattaching the loose panels and not deal with 
the underlying misalignment issue.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view. She said even though 
the report pointed to a manufacturing fault that didnt automatically mean rejection should be 
the next step. She felt RCI needed to be given a chance to repair the car but clarified , at Mr 
Ss request that an unsuccessful repair would be one where a repair wasnt possible or is 
done but the problem recurs shortly afterwards.
Mrs S didnt accept this further view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has explained this has been a very stressful situation for her to deal with and I do 
appreciate that. I would like to reassure her I have read the detailed timeline of events she 
submitted for me after our investigators second view. And I have noted her further 
comments about the impact on her in having to buy another car . And  the stress which she 
says has led to her not being able to drive and has impacted on her health.
I am mindful Mrs Ss agreement was for a new car and as such she could reasonably have 
expected it to be fault free for some time  more so than if for example she had taken out an 
agreement for a used car.
We expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. If issues arise within the first six 
months, we usually say its the business responsibility to resolve these and we usually feel 
one attempt to repair is reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs S says she had a problem with the boot which she noticed when she 
collected the car. She has told us she was advised to take the car back which she says she 
did approximately six weeks later where a repair was carried out, but she was advised 
although the problem was fixed it wasnt perfect. She said at the time she was prepared to 
accept this which surprise me since she took out an agreement for a new car. She now  
feels this was evidence of the underlying misalignment problem
Unfortunately, although Mrs S says she raised the boot problem the days she got the car we 
have no evidence to confirm this. We have asked for records of work done to Mrs Ss car. 
But the only record RCI has been able to find is one for an unrelated recall in October 2019. 
There is no evidence of Mrs S taking her car back after six weeks or so to have the boot 
repaired.
However, I dont think that there is any dispute that a manufacturing fault has been identified 
with Mrs Ss car. Thats confirmed in an independent inspection carried out in October 2019 
just a year after Mrs S took out her agreement. The report confirmed the tail gate needed 
realigning , the moulding on the left rear door is detached, the left wheel arch has popped 
out and the rear bumper is damaged. The inspector confirmed that  in his opinion all these 
faults were made at the factory. 
We asked both  RCI and Mrs S for a full copy of the report to see if there was any other 
information, we should be aware of , but neither was unable to provide this . So, I only have the excerpt that RCI used in its final response letter. This confirms the 
problems are manufacturing ones and not caused by any impact damage. The final 
response letter stated
 ;-  Having reviewed the report, we note the inspector confirmed the tailgate needed 
realigning, moulding on left rear door is detached, left rear wheel arch has popped out and 
rear bumper is damaged on fitting area. The inspector further reports that in his opinion all 
faults were made at the factory and not caused by impact damage.
Mrs S gave us a copy of an excerpt from the report which tallies with the above
Although the independent reported identified an issue that was present at the point of sale 
that doesnt mean Mrs S has an automatic right to reject the car. We normally allow one 
attempt to repair. I dont think its unreasonable to allow this to be done.
Ive noted that Mrs S feels the quote for the repair wont address the underlying 
misalignment issue. But it wouldnt be reasonable to allow rejection of the car just because 
Mrs S doesnt believe the quote covers the work. The repair will have to cover the issue as 
identified in the independent report.
RCI has recently told us that the manufacturer is willing to undertake repairs under warranty 
but would wish to assess first if any damage was caused by an accident as in that case the 
warranty wouldnt apply.
As the evidence  RCI has given us states impact damage wasnt the problem I dont think 
that is a reasonable approach to take. And RCI did accept our investigators 
recommendation that the repairs are carried out at no cost to Mrs S. So, to be clear even if 
the warranty doesnt cover the cost of the repairs these do need to be carried out at no cost 
to Mrs S
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In  full and final settlement RCI Financial Services Limited should :-
- Repair Mrs Ss car according to the recommendation of the independent inspection 
at no cost to Mrs S
- Pay Mrs S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman