DRN-3246702
The complaint
Mr T complains that John Lewis Financial Service Limited (JLFS) wont reimburse him the 
funds he paid on his credit card to what he says was a fraudulent Binary Options trading 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2015 Mr T made a series of payments on his credit card to a business Ill refer to as L. 
These totalled around £4,750. I understand Mr T also made a further payment to L using a 
debit card provided by another bank. 
Mr T was contacted by the police about another binary options firm hed invested with. I 
understand there was later a successful prosecution of this other firm. In October 2016 Mr T 
contacted JLFS and asked them to reimburse him the money hed paid to L under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
He says that L had misrepresented their services and had breached their contract with him. 
JLFS asked for further information but ultimately declined to offer any refund. They said 
theyd considered a chargeback but the relevant time limit had passed. Theyd also 
considered section 75 but had concluded there was insufficient evidence of a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by L. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 CCA gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a 
false statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr T into entering into an 
agreement. 
Mr T hasnt presented any evidence that would suggest L made promises that induced him 
into entering into an agreement with them. Nor that they breached any contract he had with 
them.
Mr T has shared the terms and conditions with L. But Ive not seen any evidence beyond his 
testimony and reference to notes he says were made at the time of phone calls with L to 
support this. There have been a large number of fraudulent binary options trading firms in 
recent years. Many of these are entirely fictitious operations with no trading taking place. 
They are commonly a simulation giving that impression and are better described as a scam. 
In such cases it will be likely that there has been a breach of contract and or 
misrepresentation as no trading took place. 
Where this is the case there is often corroborative evidence to be found from credible 
sources such as regulators or the police and even hearsay evidence from other victims. I 
also note that Mr T has made an allegation to the police about L. And our service has 
received contact from a police officer involved in the other investigation Ive referenced 
above. But there is still no persuasive evidence that L were operating a scam. 
Mr Ts own testimony supports that hed visited their offices and had met with his trader who 
advised him on taxation and regulation etc. These arent the circumstances commonly seen 
in such a scam. Mr T also doesnt have any documentary evidence that supports there was 
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made by L. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont find Mr T has established a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract under section 75. For completeness, I agree with 
JLFS that Mr T was beyond the relevant time limit for chargeback to have been an option in 
relation to his payments. I also dont think there are any other reasons that ought to have 
prompted JLFS to have intervened at the time the payments were made. It follows that I 
think JLFSs decision not to offer a refund was fair and reasonable and Im not going to 
require them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman