DRN-2947102
The complaint
Mr L complains about various issues he had when trying to arrange a new mortgage with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as first direct (first direct).
What happened
Mr L had two mortgage accounts with first direct. In October 2020, one had a balance of 
£468, and the other had a balance of £93,803. The first mortgage was on a fixed rate which 
expired in June 2021 (mortgage A), and the second mortgage (B) was on a fixed rate which 
expired in January 2025. 
Mr L wanted to move house. He called first direct on 16 September 2020 to say hed found a 
property. He was given an Agreement in Principle (AIP) on 21 September 2020  for a 
mortgage of £284,450. A call took place with a mortgage adviser on 2 October 2020, 
following which the AIP was confirmed. On the same day, a mortgage illustration was sent to 
Mr L for a mortgage of £284,000, and the mortgage adviser instructed the mortgage 
valuation report.
On 26 October 2020, the mortgage valuation report stated the new property wasnt suitable 
as security for the mortgage - as it had an annex which could be sublet. As a result, first 
direct declined to provide the mortgage. Mr L managed to arrange a mortgage with another 
lender, and the first direct mortgages were repaid in December 2020. An early repayment 
charge (ERC) was due on mortgage A, but this was waived. An ERC of £2,975.70 was 
charged on mortgage B.
Mr L complained. He said that first direct took too long to take the decision  and this left him 
with the task of finding another lender. First direct shouldve told him about their lending 
policies at the outset. As a result, he had to pay an ERC on the mortgage. And he said hed 
suffered stress and inconvenience because he had to find another lender at very short 
notice, and he almost lost the purchase of the property.
First direct apologised for the frustration caused. They said that following the valuation 
report, the property wasnt suitable for a first direct mortgage  as it had an annexe. This 
was detailed on the surveyors report. As a gesture of goodwill, they agreed to waive the 
ERC on mortgage A  which wouldve been £2,279.60.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said first direct had acted fairly. Theyd let 
him know that their agreement to the mortgage was subject to a satisfactory valuation report. 
And when it was received, it showed that the property wasnt suitable as security because of 
the annex. The whole mortgage process  from Mr Ls initial inquiry to first direct on 16 
September 2020 to the receipt of the valuation report on 28 October 2020 was reasonable. 
And  first direct had agreed to waive one of the ERCs  which was fair.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that first directs mortgage adviser must have known their lending 
policies and so he shouldve been told this at the mortgage interview. If questions had been 
asked about the property, he couldve told the adviser about the annexe  and a lot of time 
wouldnt have been wasted. When he later spoke to the complaints team  it was obvious 
then that first direct wouldnt lend on a property with an annexe  so the mortgage adviser 
should also have known that. He didnt agree that the time taken was reasonable  first 
direct took eight weeks, and the other lender he found took four weeks. And  first direct 
didnt offer to waive one of the ERCs, he had to push for it. 
Mr L asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that:
First directs mortgage adviser shouldve been aware of their lending policies 
regarding property annexes when the mortgage interview took place on 2 October 
2020  and if she had, a lot of time couldve been saved. It was obvious that the 
policy was well known  as the complaints team knew about it when he complained.
The whole process took too long, and so he had to find another lender late in the 
day. This led to a lot of stress and inconvenience  as it looked like he might lose his 
purchase.
He had to pay an ERC of £2,975, and first direct only waived the other ERC after he 
complained.
There were three calls with first directs mortgage adviser on 2 October 2020. Ive listened to 
them. I think its important to say that the role of a mortgage adviser is to establish the 
suitability and affordability of a mortgage. On the call - this is what the mortgage adviser did. 
There was a short discussion about the property  its address and purchase price, and the 
nature of its construction. Mr L said it had a part thatched roof. But other than that, nothing 
else was discussed about the property  neither would we expect there to be. 
At the end of the third call on 2 October 2020, the mortgage adviser said first directs 
underwriters had agreed the mortgage in principle. She said a mortgage illustration would be 
sent that day. She said that a formal mortgage offer would only be made after the valuation 
had been completed. We wouldnt expect a mortgage adviser to assess the suitability of a 
property as security for mortgage purposes  thats not part of their role. Most lenders, 
including first direct, use third party surveyors to provide valuation reports and to make 
recommendations about whether the property is suitable as security for a mortgage - and in 
line with their lending policies. And in this case  thats what happened. 
When the valuation report was received it said it wasnt a suitable mortgage security 
because The property includes annexe accommodation that could be easily sublet. First 
direct must be guided by the advice they received from the professional valuer  and in this 
case I can see it was provided by a firm who were RICS registered (Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors). This is what we would expect to see. And so  first directs mortgage 
adviser acted reasonably.
Mr L said to us that first directs policy concerning annexes was well known  and he 
referred to the calls with the complaints team on 28 October 2020 and 29 October 2020. Ive 
also listened to those calls. The complaints team said first direct rely on surveyors to advise 
them on the suitability of the property for the mortgages offered by first direct. The complaint 
handler didnt state there was a known policy about annexes  he was then clearly speaking 
with the benefit of the valuation (which had then been received) and the banks policy.Ive considered the length of time taken. At the end of the call on 2 October 2020, the 
mortgage adviser said she would arrange the valuation after the call, and that a visit to the 
property would be needed. She added that the mortgage process would likely take between 
four to six weeks. So  she did set expectations, and Mr L agreed that this would be 
acceptable. And she also said on the call  that first direct were very busy because the 
housing market was buoyant  and Mr L agreed with her comment.
We asked first direct why the valuation took three weeks to complete  as this seemed to me 
to be a long time. They told us that they couldnt be certain about the reason for this  as it 
was down to the valuers to arrange to visit the property. But they knew the valuers had a 
backlog of up to six weeks at the time because of the pandemic which had caused some 
delays. This was due to the restrictions on entering properties. So  Im persuaded that the 
time lag was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Looking at the ERCs  its not in dispute that first direct could charge these as they were in 
line with the terms of the mortgages held by Mr L. Mr L agreed with this on the calls I heard. 
But to confirm  first directs mortgage offer dated 16 January 2020 (on mortgage B) stated 
The Early Repayment Charge is payable if you repay the Mortgage Loan in full.within 5 
years from First Drawdown.The Early Repayment Charge within one year of First 
Drawdown is 3% of the amount drawn downthe maximum Early Repayment Charge you 
could pay is £2,975.70. So  the ERC was due to be paid on mortgage B.
First direct agreed to waive the ERC on Mortgage A  for £2,279. Mr L said they only did this 
when pressed. I listened to the call in question  on 29 October 2020. The complaint handler 
was trying to come to an agreement to resolve Mr Ls complaint. He advised Mr L that first 
direct couldnt provide the mortgage. At the same time, Mr L wasnt happy about paying two 
ERCs  especially as one fixed rate expired in June 2021, less than seven months later. So, 
the complaint handler agreed to waive that ERC. I wouldnt say he was pushed to do so, but 
he agreed to it as part of a negotiation to try to settle Mr Ls complaint.  And I think that first 
directs decision to waive the ERC was reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate how frustrating and stressful that Mr Ls experience was. But I cant say that first 
direct made errors or acted unreasonably. And so  Im not going to ask them to do anymore 
here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman