DRN-2097253
The complaint
Mrs B says Leeds Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
for a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs B took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1992. Mrs B paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was nearly three decades ago, so I think its completely understandable that 
neither side still have all of the original documents from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection rules, Leeds were required to dispose of Mrs Bs data rather than hold on to it for 
too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the 
information I do have.
From what Ive seen of Leeds sales process from the time, Mrs B wouldve been offered the 
choice to take PPI or turn it down. And in order to get a policy, she wouldve needed to 
specifically apply for it, separately to applying for the mortgage itself. This policy was not a 
condition of Mrs Bs mortgage. And Ive not seen any wider problems with Leeds sales 
process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that it misled or unfairly pressured 
Mrs B into having PPI here. So I think its most likely that Leeds offered Mrs B a choice 
about buying PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she 
no longer recalls doing so after such an especially long time.
Leeds recommended the PPI to Mrs B, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mrs B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. It wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and covered her more 
comprehensively. And it meant she could effectively protect her savings and use them for 
other things. I understand Mrs B also had life cover, but that was for different things so Im 
afraid its not relevant here. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that if Mrs B had fallen 
behind on her mortgage payments she couldve lost her home. So the PPI couldve really 
been useful for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Leeds gave Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs B is concerned about the fact that her mortgage offer didnt 
mention PPI. I find it unsurprising that it didnt mention PPI, since the policy was a separate 
cost from her mortgage, wouldve been applied for separately, and was not a condition of her 
mortgage. So while I appreciate Mrs Bs strength of feeling on this point, Im afraid I dont 
think this is relevant to whether the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman