DRN-2774517
The complaint
Miss P says Emergency Cash Limited trading as Wizzcash lent to her irresponsibly. Miss P 
says she was had severe and persistent debt problems and this been the case for a number 
of years. She thinks that if Wizzcash had made better checks it would have seen this and not 
lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Wizzcash provided to Miss P in March 2018. 
Miss P borrowed £300 and she was due to make three repayments of around £150. Miss P 
has repaid the loan in full. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks Wizzcash had made 
before approving the lending were proportionate given the circumstances of the lending. 
Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that, in summary:
The fact that she needed to borrow around her payday should have caused 
Wizzcash to ask more questions before lending. 
Wizzcash has not been clear and transparent in its data processing. This means it is 
acting outside of General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). 
Its not clear what information Wizzcash obtained from credit reference agencies and 
how it used this. 
Looking in detail at the credit reports (both Miss Ps own and Wizzcashs) these show 
a pattern of unsustainable short-term credit borrowing. It shows that she was in 
financial distress. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Wizzcash needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Wizzcash 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I have thought about whether the checks Wizzcash did were proportionate and if it properly 
considered the information it had.
Miss P needed to repay around £150 each month for three months after she took the loan. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss P provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss P said she had a monthly income of just over £2,000 and she declared she 
had regular monthly outgoings of £1,300. Wizzcash added around another £200 to Miss Ps 
expenditure as its checks led it to think that Miss Ps monthly outgoings were greater than 
£1,300. So, taking all this into account I think it was initially reasonable for Wizzcash to think 
that the loan was affordable. 
Its not in doubt that Miss P had a significant amount of other debt. She has said that the 
repayments to this were causing her problems. In order to uphold the complaint on this basis 
I need to be persuaded that Wizzcash either knew, or should have been aware, that the 
lending wasnt sustainable because of this debt.
Wizzcash didnt need to do a credit check. But it did need to properly consider the 
information that it was provided with as part of the checks it did which included obtaining 
some information from a credit reference agency (CRA). Miss P says that Wizzcash didnt 
consider this information properly.   
Firstly, Wizzcash verified Miss Ps income using a service provided by the CRA. It seems to 
have relied on the green status from the CRA. I think is reasonable given this was Miss Ps 
first loan. 
Wizzcash also obtained information from a CRA that gave some detail about the other 
lending that she had. Wizzcash has provided the data it used to check whether the loan was 
affordable. This isnt provided in a user friendly format. Its designed to be used with 
Wizzcashs system to assist with giving a yes or a no as to whether the loan should be 
approved or not. And CRAs can provide large amounts of data about a consumer. But its 
typical, as seems to have happened here, that only a selection of this data is requested and 
used by a lending business. This would be the data that it wants to base its lending 
decisions on. Again I dont think this is unreasonable in this case. 
The information Wizzcash obtained about Miss P isnt entirely complete. Its doesnt provide 
full details about what her credit was, for example, there is no information about which 
business approved it. Many of the entries are historic.  
But from what I can see, the information Wizzcash received only showed one other product 
that is likely to be another short term loan. Most of the entries seem to refer to credit cards 
and longer-term credit. I dont think the information shows that Miss P was persistently 
reliant on short term lending.And whilst it does show she has some other lending it doesnt show that she was having 
difficulty repaying this. Overall, I think the credit checks show that Miss P had a reasonably 
large amount of debt. But it also shows that she wasnt having problems sustainably 
repaying this on a regular basis.  
And given the amount she borrowed against her income, and that this was right at the start 
of a lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say that Wizzcash should have 
looked into her finances in more detail. As Ive said above, checks should be proportionate, 
this does mean a business could do less at the start of a lending relationship when the 
amounts borrowed look reasonable. I think this is the case here.
Miss P has said that the amounts that Wizzcash adjusted her expenditure by dont entirely 
match her circumstances. And she says it not clear how it arrived the amounts it used to 
base its lending decisions on. 
Wizzcash needed to look the information it had and make a decision about the lending. And 
at this early point in the lending I wouldnt necessarily have expected Wizzcash to get an 
exact picture of Miss Ps finances. So, I wouldnt necessarily expect the Miss Ps expenditure 
to exactly match her situation. But having considered everything I dont think Wizzcash 
based its lending decision on unreasonable figures, given what it knew and that this was 
Miss Ps first loan. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Wizzcash was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss P mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Miss Ps circumstances further. I think it was reasonable for Wizzcash to rely on 
the information it obtained. So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments 
Wizzcash did for this loan were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan 
was irresponsible. Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint about it. 
Miss P has said that Wizzcash has not provided the information it requested about her in an 
easy to read format. And so, it has not complied with GDPR. Im afraid deciding whether a 
business has fulfilled its obligations under the GDPR is beyond the scope of this decision. 
I would direct Miss P to the Information Commissioner who can be found at 
https://ico.org.uk/ if she wished to pursue this further.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman