DRN-1633741
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund disputed transactions made 
from his account.  
What happened
Mr P says that disputed transactions totalling £12,625 were made from his Nationwide 
current account on the 27 May 2019. 
The last time Mr P used his debit card was on the 27 May 2019. Mr P withdrew £20 from a 
cash machine around 3:23am. Mr P says that he then returned to his friends at a local 
restaurant where he left his coat  which included his phone and debit card  with his friends 
for a short period of time. After this Mr P explained he returned to a nightclub where he rolled 
up his coat  in which he left his phone and wallet containing his Nationwide debit card 
zipped up in a pocket  and put it in a bag in the nightclub cloakroom. 
Mr P explains that he didnt notice his debit card was missing until he realised his mobile 
phone was missing the SIM card late on the 27 May 2019. He found this out because he 
says his Mum received a phone call from someone explaining hed left his phone in a Taxi, 
which appeared to be coming from his phone. At this point he checked his phone and 
realised his SIM card was missing. This prompted him to check his wallet where he also 
realised his debit card was missing. At this point Mr P logged onto his online banking and on 
realising transactions totalling £12,625 had been carried out, contacted his bank.  The first 
disputed transaction occurred at 4:12am on the 27 May 2019. 
Nationwide investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. They said there 
was no evidence of fraudulent activity. And they thought Mr P most likely authorised the 
transactions. 
As Mr P didnt agree with Nationwides conclusion he complained to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary he felt unable to 
conclude the transactions had been made fraudulently and was persuaded they were most 
likely authorised by Mr P. But they accepted the service theyd offered wasnt satisfactory, 
and offered Mr P £125 in compensation. 
Mr Ps representative Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators assessment. In summary she 
said:
Why didnt Nationwide contact the police or obtain CCTV?
If Nationwide feel that Mr P acted in a fraudulent or grossly negligent way what proof 
have they got?
Theres no evidence the police are investigating Mr P for fraud?
 As Mr P didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr P liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ps genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that Mr P 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Theres no plausible explanation for how a fraudster obtained both Mr Ps card and 
PIN. Mr P suggested that the most likely way his PIN was obtained was via shoulder 
surfing when he was at an ATM machine in the morning of the 27 May 2019. Mr P 
says he then put his card, and phone, in a zipped up pocket in his coat, before 
briefly leaving his coat with friends in a restaurant then rolling up his coat and putting 
it in a bag in a nightclub cloakroom. This means for the fraudster to obtain Mr Ps 
debit card theyd have needed to follow him either to the restaurant and unzipped his 
coat pocket in front of his friends, or later followed Mr P to the nightclub and entered 
the cloakroom before obtaining his card from his zipped up coat pocket  neither of 
these scenarios seem likely to me. 
Nationwide have also provided evidence that Mr P was sent text messages, triggered 
by their fraud security system, to confirm whether two of the transactions carried out 
on the 27 May 2019 were genuine. Nationwide received replies to both of these 
messages confirming the transactions were genuine. Mr P's explanation for this is 
that along with taking his debit card and PIN the fraudster also obtained his SIM card 
from his phone  which was in the zipped up pocket of his coat. For this to have been 
possible a third party would have needed to access Mr Ps coat pocket and either 
take his phone out in front of his friends or in the nightclub cloakroom before 
removing the SIM card and returning the phone to his coat pocket without being 
noticed. The third party also needed to have an instrument to remove Mr Ps SIM 
card. I fail to see a significant benefit for the fraudster in obtaining Mr Ps SIM card or 
understand why theyd take the risk to remove his SIM card and then return his 
phone. 
Mr P says he didnt realise until later in the day that his SIM card was removed 
although the screen displayed a message saying no SIM card. It seems unusual that 
he left it until Mrs P received a phone call from someone over 15 hours after his SIM 
card was removed before noticing this and contacting his network provider. 
 
In response to our investigators opinion, Mrs P said the police aren't investigating Mr P and 
Nationwide havent shown any evidence that Mr P acted in a fraudulent manner. Its not for 
me to comment on the actions of the police or to determine if the evidence Nationwide 
provided is sufficient to show Mr P acted in a fraudulent manner. Instead I need to decide, on balance, if I think Mr P carried out or authorised the transactions and Im satisfied this is 
the case. 
Mrs P also asked why the CCTV hasnt been obtained. Its possible that CCTV would show 
Mr P didnt make the withdrawals or carry out the transactions. But Mr P didnt have to make 
the withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under the relevant rules. He can still 
be held responsible for them if he authorised the use of his card. So even if CCTV had been 
available, looking at all of the evidence in this particular case, I dont think I could be as sure 
as I would need to be to say that Mr P wasnt involved.
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr P authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold Mr P's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman