DRN-2019808
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as 
Halifax, mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in or around 
May 1992.
Mr S says he wasnt given a choice about taking out the MPPI alongside his mortgage. 
He also says he didnt need the cover. 
What happened
Mr S took out a BoS mortgage in December 1991. From what weve seen he then took out 
mortgage payment protection (MPPI) insurance at a later date, in or around May 1992.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed on to me. I see that due to a mis-communication it has taken much 
longer than normal for the complaint to reach to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says he bought the MPPI at a meeting and Ive seen that BoS accepts this. That 
means that BoS had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr S and the information 
provided was clear, fair and not misleading. From what Ive seen I cant see that BoS 
didnt do this.
Unfortunately, most of the sale documents are no longer available. But BoS has been 
able to let me have some of the screenshots from its computer system. These show that 
Mr S took out his mortgage in December 1991 and that his PPI payments started in May 
1992. This strongly suggests that Mr S took out the MPPI around 6 months after hed 
arranged his mortgage.
 
From what we know about MPPI sales at this time its therefore likely that Mr S would 
have been asked to complete and sign a separate MPPI application form to apply for 
the PPI cover. It also seems likely that Mr S would have had a discussion with a BoS 
representative about it. The application would then be completed as a result of this and 
signed by Mr S. 
A key issue in this sale is the fact that Mr S bought the MPPI sometime after hed taken out 
the mortgage. I know that this doesnt fit in with Mr Ss recollection but I havent seen any 
evidence or information to show that the MPPI was taken out at the same time as the 
mortgage. So it looks to me that the way the sale happened in May 1992 Mr S ought to 
have been aware of taking it out and that Mr S knew or ought to have known, that he didnt 
have to buy the MPPI if he didnt want it. Instead, he made a definite decision to go ahead 
with it.
Mr S was eligible for the MPPI so he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover. So I dont think Mr S would have found it difficult if he needed to make a 
claim. Mr S said he was entitled to good benefits from his employer if he couldnt work. He 
also told us he had some savings. Taking all this into account, I think the policy was 
suitable. This is because the policy wouldve provided him with cover for his mortgage 
repayments for up to 24 months if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. This would have been in addition to Mr Ss 
existing work benefits, or any other sources of income Mr S may have had, such as his 
savings. Overall, given the serious consequences of defaulting on mortgage repayments 
and the need to make up for any dip in his salary whilst he was off work, I think Mr S 
wouldve found the policy useful.
The policy cost £25.00 per month and would have provided a monthly benefit of £500. So if 
Mr S made a successful claim, I think the policy would have benefitted him more than it 
cost. Id have expected the cost and benefit to be set out on the MPPI application form  
although I cant know for sure. But I think BoS would have taken steps to make him aware 
of these before he signed-up for the policy.
Its always possible BoS couldve provided more information about the policy and the things 
the policy didnt cover. But I havent seen anything to show Mr S would have been affected 
by any of these, so I dont think this information would have made Mr S change his mind 
about talking out the policy.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr S, but all of this means I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr S his MPPI 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman