DRN-3392695
The complaint
Dr Ds complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) relates to the delay she 
experienced in updating her title on both her debit card and online account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are broadly not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
NatWest has paid Dr D £250 compensation for what happened. 
Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable and so didnt think NatWest needed to 
do anything further to put things right. However, Dr D is seeking an increased amount of 
compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons Ill 
explain. 
Ive summarised events here in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by that - this just 
echoes the informal service we were set up to provide. If Ive not mentioned something, its 
not because Ive ignored it, its because I dont think its material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
All parties agree that there were delays in updating Dr Ds title on her current 
account.  Dr D has said she initially made her change request in August 2021. Ive 
looked at the webchats and can see Dr D stated the request was first made on 
27 September 2021. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the initial 
request was submitted in September 2021.  
Ive thought about the timescales NatWest gave Dr D. I can see Dr D was told on 
several occasions that she would receive her updated card within five working days, 
for example, on 20 October 2021 when she communicated with an advisor via 
webchat. Dr D later requested to pick up her card in branch and was told this could 
take up to ten working days. But given that the correct card wasnt ordered until 
26 November 2021 its clear NatWest had exceeded its own timescale. 
NatWest has apologised for the delays caused and I sympathise with the frustration 
this wouldve caused Dr D. I think NatWest couldve updated Dr Ds title and issued 
her a correct card much sooner than it did and therefore, Ive considered whether she 
suffered any financial loss because of NatWests delays. 
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Dr D experienced and appreciate she was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. But thinking about whether 
Dr D has incurred a financial loss I dont think she has. NatWest confirmed Dr D was 
able to use her account and existing debit card whilst waiting for her new card to be 
issued. 
Whilst I accept NatWest delayed updating Dr Ds title as she requested, I do think the 
compensation it has paid reflects the impact this wouldve had on Dr D. It follows that 
Im not going to ask it to do anymore here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Dr Ds complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc, and I dont think it needs to do anything further to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman