DRN-1608371
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that, when he applied for an online account with TSB Bank plc, the account 
was opened but then closed a few days later following further checks by the bank. Mr C says 
the account should never have been opened. He wants any information about the 
application removed from his credit file and compensation.
What happened
Mr C applied for an account online. He says the account was opened and then closed. 
TSB says the decision on whether to open an account was referred and, on closer 
examination, his application was declined.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didn't conclude 
that TSB had done anything wrong.
Mr C didn't agree saying, in summary, that he wasn't told his application was being referred; 
he was told it had been accepted, but he did not take any screenshots to evidence this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator for much the same reasons.
Mr C told us he is not complaining about whether TSB should have accepted or declined his 
account. Rather he is complaining about the way in which his application was declined. 
Mr C says an account was opened for him - or at least he was told his application had been 
successful. He doesn't have evidence to show what he saw; and I wouldn't have expected 
him to take and keep a screenshot. But the bank does have a record of what happened and 
I've considered this carefully, alongside Mr C's recollections.
I'm not persuaded that an account was opened for Mr C - no account number or sort code 
was allocated to him.  TSB's records show that his application was not accepted - it was 
referred for additional checks.
Whilst I understand Mr C's strength of feeling on this matter, and his disappointment that his 
application was declined, I don't find that TSB did anything wrong. It follows that I can't order 
TSB to amend Mr C's credit file, or pay him any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman