DRN-1814698
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited ('Assurant') wouldn't process 
his claim for the loss of an insured device under his gadget insurance policy because 
he couldnt provide the serial number for the device.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr W wanted to register a claim for a Samsung tablet device when it
was lost. When Mr W tried to register his claim, Assurant requested that he provide the 
device's serial number. 
Mr W had no record of the serial number and, as he didn't know where his device was, he 
couldn't provide the serial number. None of the documents that Mr W had access to 
contained the serial number.
Assurant said that they couldn't proceed with the claim until the serial number was provided.
And it relied on the following term from Mr Ws insurance policy document:
You will need to be able to tell us the make and model of your gadget. We may ask to see
something that tells us that the items you are claiming for belong to you and confirms the
make, model or serial number (IMEI number for mobile phones) and memory size (where
relevant) of your gadget. If the serial number or IMEI number on the gadget has been
tampered with and we are unable to verify this we will decline your claim.
Mr W complained to Assurant and they referred to the terms of the insurance policy as the
reason for not proceeding with the claim. Mr W remained unhappy and then referred his
complaint to our service.
Since referring his complaint to our service, Mr W let us know that he has since found his
device.
Our investigator upheld Mr W's complaint as they felt that the policy terms didn't make it
clear that a serial number must be provided before claim can proceed and awarded £50 for
trouble and upset that Assurant had caused Mr W. Assurant disagreed, so the complaint
was passed to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in March 2020. In it, I said:
"Mr W is unhappy as he feels that as hes provided proof of purchase - but not the serial
number of the device, that Assurant should accept his claim. Having carefully considered all
of the evidence in this case, I currently dont intend to uphold the complaint.
I say this because I dont think that Assurant have acted unfairly  as Ill explain in more
detail below.
Mr W can provide the make and model of his device but not the serial number. The receipt
he has doesnt contain the serial number. However, whilst I understand his frustrations, I
cant fairy say that Assurant have acted outside the policy terms when deciding not to
register Mr Ws claim.The relevant term sets out what evidence Assurant may ask for in the event of a claim. The
policy term also isnt unusual in these types of insurance policies. Even so, it wouldnt be
something that the insurer would require on every claim given the range of items and events
covered by this policy. 
So I dont agree that theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably when theyve asked Mr W for 
something theyve set out in the policy terms which is relevant to the item and type of claim 
made.
Mr W can show that he bought a Samsung tablet. But the term relied on by Assurant isnt
just to prove this. Its also to assist Assurant in verifying the claim and recovering the item.
For example, Assurant have said they may track the usage of a device or to communicate
with third parties such as gadget recyclers, manufacturers or retailers to establish if the
device had been traded in, sold, or recovered by them. And I dont think this is
unreasonable in these circumstances.
Im not ignoring the point that Mr W has made that, on the website where he took out this
policy, there wouldve been a series of statements that Mr W agreed to which doesnt state
that the serial number may be required in the event of a claim. However, underneath the
same declaration there was a link to the policy terms and conditions which contained the
policy term that Assurant are relying on.
In order to buy the policy, Mr W had to confirm that hed read all of the terms and conditions
And, as Ive explained above, I dont find this to be an unusual term for gadgets like this and
with the ability to connect to the internet. Some insurers ask for a serial number to be
registered at the time of taking the insurance out. But just because this isnt something
Assurant does, it doesnt mean that I could reasonably or fairly say they shouldve 
registered this claim.
Finally, Ive also noted that Mr W later found the device he wanted to claim for. So, even if
Assurant had accepted and progressed the claim there wouldnt have been any loss 
suffered by Mr W.
Mr W has since cancelled this insurance policy as he felt that he was paying for something
that he couldnt claim on. He feels that he should have his policy premiums refunded. But
insurance is designed to protect against the unexpected or unforeseen and Mr W had the
benefit of being able to claim on this policy for a number of things, such as theft or damage,
even if this isnt what he actually did.
Taking everything into account, I dont agree that Assurant have acted unfairly or
unreasonably in this matter so Im not asking it to refund anything to Mr W or pay him
compensation. So I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint."
Neither party provided a response or any further evidence after my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information nor made any additional submissions, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman