DRN-3191091
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy underwritten by URV. 
He travelled abroad on 6 March 2020 and was due to return on 16 April 2020. But, due to 
the impact of Covid-19, he was unable to continue with his trip as hed planned. 
Between 6 March 2020 and 15 March 2020, he travelled abroad and arrived in the 
destination he then became stuck in on 15 March 2020. On the 23 March the local 
Government where Mr H was, introduced a lockdown and as a result Mr H was unable to 
move on with his trip as planned. He was forced to stay in one destination and extend the 
whole trip by a further 59 days, until 3 June 2020 when he was able to start his journey 
home.  
Mr H made a claim to URV for the additional costs he incurred for accommodation and food. 
Initially URV considered the claim under the cancellation section of the policy and said the 
claim wasnt listed as an insured event so it was declined. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H raised a complaint to say he asked for the claim to be considered 
under the Natural Catastrophe section of the policy because he believed Covid-19 met the 
definition set out in his policy. URV reconsidered the claim under that section, but still 
declined his claim.  
Mr H referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. She didnt think URV had been unfair to decline the claim because she said 
Covid-19 didnt fall within the scope of the policy definition of a natural catastrophe. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In March 2022 I issued 
my provisional findings to both parties, explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold this 
complaint. In summary I said:
Mr H had planned a trip from 6 March 2020 to 15 April 2020. He has explained he didnt 
have a fixed itinerary and was booking accommodation and travel as he went along. There 
werent any restrictions in place at time of his departure and his trip went ahead as planned 
between 6 March -15 March 2020. However, by 11 March the World Health Organisation 
had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and local restrictions began to come into force so 
from 15 March he said they were unable to continue their traveling trip as planned. And due 
to restrictions in place, Mr and Mrs H were unable to return home on 15 April as planned  
so they had to extend their trip until 2 June 2020. 
Mr H submitted a claim for the additional accommodation and food costs he incurred during 
his extended stay aboard. He feels strongly that his claims falls under the natural 
catastrophe section of the policy which defines it as a natural event. But URV disagree. dont 
intend to make a finding on whether - in the absence of that term being further defined - 
Covid-19 and its global impact should reasonably be considered as a natural event. Thats 
because, even if it ought to be, I still dont think Mr Hs claim is covered. Ill explain why. 
The policy only provides cover for the cost of alternative travel and accommodation 
following a natural catastrophe. The terms state URV will pay for travel and alternative 
accommodation to the same standard as the one pre-booked. Mr H is claiming for 
accommodation costs during his extended stay abroad, but as he was never intending to be 
abroad during this period the cost of the accommodation during this period are additional, 
rather than alternative costs. So they wouldnt fall under this section of the policy.
I can see Mr H has said he was prevented from continuing with his original travel plans 
around the islands from 15 March. So Ive also considered if Mr H could claim for any 
alternative travel or accommodation costs he may have incurred during the period of his 
intended stay abroad (up until 15 April which was his expected return home date). However, 
Mr H has explained they didnt have a fixed itinerary and they were booking accommodation 
as they went along so he confirmed they didnt have any original accommodation bookings 
for anywhere between 15 March and 14 April. Therefore, in the absence of any original 
bookings for travel and accommodation during this period, there are again no alternative 
costs for URV to cover during this period. So I think URV are fair to decline the claim on the 
basis.
Finally, Ive also considered all the other sections of the policy that may be relevant to these 
circumstances, but unfortunately theres no cover for getting stuck abroad, which is often 
referred to as enforced stay. I appreciate that Mr H was in a difficult situation. His 
immediate focus was following the local regulations, which is understandable. Its also clear 
Mr and Mrs H made every effort to contact the relevant organisations to try and establish a 
way to get back home. So, whilst I entirely understand Mr Hs reasons for staying abroad, 
there is just no cover under this policy for the situation in which he found himself in. So I 
dont think URV have unreasonably declined his claim. 
Although Mr H wasnt covered for the additional costs he incurred during his enforced stay 
abroad, he did still have the other benefits of his insurance policy before he left the UK and 
whilst he was abroad. 
I note Mr Hs concerns about the way URV handled his claim but I can see they apologised 
in their final response and explained they would use the feedback to prevent the same error 
happening in future which I think is fair in the circumstances. So I wont be asking URV to do 
anything further. 
URV accepted my findings. Mr H disagreed, in summary he said: 
He had taken out holiday insurance to pay for an insurance company to take the 
risks. His holiday went horribly wrong through no fault of his own and cost more 
money, so he doesnt think he should liable for the costs when he had a policy in 
place. 
The risk he is claiming for wasnt excluded from the policy, so he thinks his claim 
should be paid. 
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments made by Mr H. However, theyve not changed 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.I understand that Mr H feels strongly that it wasnt his fault he had to extend his trip and incur 
extra costs. And whilst I agree with that, it doesnt automatically follow that his travel 
insurance policy should cover this event. It is an unfortunate situation to be in, but most 
insurance policies will not provide cover for every possible eventuality a policyholder may 
need to claim for. 
Mr Hs policy does provide cover for alternative travel and accommodation following a 
natural catastrophe. But as explained in my provisional decision, Mr H didnt have any 
bookings for his intended, or extended stay, so unfortunately there is just no available cover 
for his costs.  
This means even if I concluded that Covid-19 should fall within the policy definition of a 
natural catastrophe, Mr H still wouldnt have a valid claim because the costs he is claiming 
for just arent covered. 
I did consider all the other sections of the policy that may be relevant to Mr Hs 
circumstances, but unfortunately theres no cover for getting stuck abroad. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr H, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask URV to accept this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman