DRN-4038228
Complaint
Mr H complains that he fell victim to a rogue trader scam, but HSBC UK Bank Plc wont 
reimburse him.
Background
In January 2021, Mr H needed repairs to be carried out in his home. Hed noticed a leak in 
his bathroom ceiling and so he consulted a popular online directory of tradespeople. He 
contacted three potential contractors. Two of them either didnt provide him with a quote or 
werent able to start work quickly.
One company did provide a quote. Mr H read the reviews other customers had posted about 
this contractor and was generally happy with what he read. He hired that company to carry 
out the repairs. They visited his home and told him they would carry out the repairs at a cost 
of £150. However, according to Mr H, the price of the works escalated significantly and very 
quickly. This was apparently justified by the contractors finding that there was more 
extensive damage to his home than hed first realised. For example, they told him that the 
timbers supporting the roof structure were wet and needed to be replaced. From the invoices 
that Mr H has shared with us, the contractors increased the cost of the works from an initial 
£150 to £40,000 within a matter of days.
Mr H told a neighbour what was going on. His neighbour said that he knew a trustworthy 
roofer who could give him a second opinion. The second roofer came and inspected Mr Hs 
property and was concerned by what he saw. He told Mr H that the work that had already 
been completed had been carried out to a very low standard and suggested the contractors 
hed hired didnt have the skills for the job.
Mr H cancelled his contract with the original contractor and hired the second contractor to 
repair the damage. By that point, he had already transferred around £30,000 to the original 
contractor. The second contractor told our Investigator that most of the work that had been 
carried out was unnecessary. He said that the wrong insulation materials had been used and 
that slates had been incorrectly installed. He said there were more holes in the roof when 
they left than there had been originally.
Mr H complained to HSBC that hed fallen victim to a scam. HSBC said that it thought he 
had a civil dispute with the roofer, but that he wasnt the victim of fraud. That meant it didnt 
have any obligation to reimburse him.
It said that the company Mr H had paid was a genuine limited company and the contractors
had commenced work. It thought these were indicators that this wasnt a scam. It also said 
that the company had a profile on a third-party directory. That website has a thorough vetting 
process. They wouldve needed to provide evidence that they were qualified to carry out the 
works that they were offering their services in connection with. Theyd also need to provide 
evidence that they had public indemnity insurance. HSBC thought it was highly unlikely that 
a fraudster wouldve been able to get over these hurdles in order to be placed on that 
particular website, let alone manage to obtain positive reviews in connection with other jobs.
Mr H disagreed with HSBCs conclusion and so he referred a complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator identified several 
irregularities with the companys registration at Companies House and the paperwork it 
supplied to Mr H at the time. He also considered that the contractors actions were similar to 
those of a typical rogue trader scam.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me to 
consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 February 2023. I wrote: 
Theres no dispute here that Mr H authorised the payments to the company. Under 
the relevant legislation, that means hes liable for those payments at first instance. 
However, HSBC was under a range of other duties and obligations at the time. 
Broadly summarised, it was expected to be on the lookout for payments that were 
unusual or out of character with the aim of preventing customers from falling victim to 
fraud and scams. Its also a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. In certain circumstances, that code can entitle 
a customer to be reimbursed by the bank after theyve fallen victim to a scam.
However, before I consider whether any of those obligations come into play, I must 
first consider whether Mr H is a victim of fraud. The CRM code is explicit that it 
doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services  but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
This isnt a straightforward question to address. To be satisfied that Mr H fell victim to 
fraud, Id need to be persuaded that the contractors he hired had a settled intention 
to scam him. Obviously, I cannot know what was in the minds of the contractors at 
the time they agreed to carry out these repairs. As a result, I must infer what their 
intentions were based on what the available evidence tells me.
Unfortunately, Im not convinced that the evidence shows that Mr H was the victim of 
a scam. Ive come to that conclusion for several reasons.
HSBCs argument about the vetting that takes place on the third-party website is a 
persuasive one. This company was able to demonstrate to the websites staff that its
workers were qualified to the required standard and that an insurance company had 
provided it with public indemnity insurance. I think its unlikely that a rogue trader 
wouldve been able to do these things.
It's not clear from Mr Hs explanation how this went from a £150 job to a £40,000 
one. I can see from the email communications he had with the contractor that the first 
increase in price was at his request, rather than at the suggestion of the contractor. 
The first invoice didnt include all the work that Mr H wanted to be carried out and so a second invoice was issued. The earliest invoices included a clear itemisation of 
what work was to be carried out. However, although Ive seen a document saying 
that Mr H was being invoiced for £40,000, that itemisation doesnt appear to be 
available anymore, so its difficult to know for sure exactly what he agreed.
The contractors bank provided us with quite a lot of information about the operation 
of their account. The activity on that account is consistent with a legitimate roofing 
company. There is an indication that the contractors bought materials that were 
relevant to the work on Mr Hs home. For example, Mr H says he was told that the 
timbers in his roof had suffered water damage and needed to be replaced. The 
following day, the account was used to make a purchase at a timber supplier close to 
Mr Hs home.
There are also payments made into the account for several months with references 
that clearly suggest theyre payments for roof repairs or similar work. The contractors 
clearly continued to tout for business in this field on an ongoing basis. Its significant 
that none of these other clients have made a similar allegation of fraud. That isnt 
what Id expect from the typical rogue trader.
Ive considered the comments shared with us by the second contractor who 
eventually completed the job. These comments suggest that the quality of the work 
by the original contractors was of an exceptionally low standard. However, Im 
mindful of the fact that hes told us things that he cant know for sure. For example, 
the second contractor told us that there were more holes in Mr Hs roof after the initial 
contractors left than before they started. But its not clear to me how he couldve 
known this without having had the opportunity to inspect the roof beforehand. It 
seems to me that the bulk of his commentary concerns the quality of the work carried 
out and the skill level of the individuals that did so. Theres little doubt that, based on 
this testimony, the contractors Mr H hired were substandard. However, that doesnt 
necessarily mean that they committed fraud.
I did consider the fact that £40,000 would be an exceptionally high price if the work 
was limited to replacing the existing roof. That could be an indication that the 
contractors werent acting in good faith. However, Im not convinced I can uphold Mr 
Hs complaint simply because the price he was quoted was significantly out of line 
with the standard market price.
Fundamentally, HSBC doesnt have any duty or obligation to intervene in payments 
that are legitimate or to protect customers from the impact of a bad deal. I dont say 
any of this to downplay or diminish what Mr H has been through which must have 
been exceptionally difficult. I sympathise with him for that and I know he will be 
hugely disappointed by my decision. However, having considered all the available 
evidence and arguments, Im not persuaded HSBC can fairly be held liable for his 
losses in these circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, he said that:
When he cancelled the job, the contractors left a hole in his bathroom ceiling out of 
spite.
The companys manner of operating was consistent with that of rogue trader scams  
i.e. to commence work on the basis of a small quotation and then escalate it quickly. 
He thinks that he was targeted because of his age and the fact that he lived alone.The roofing company had three different addresses, which should be regarded as 
suspicious. It was also dissolved just a few months after this dispute.
His legal advisors found a newspaper article showing that one of the directors of the 
company had a prior conviction for carrying out a series of rogue trader scams.
The third-party website isnt a reliable source of evidence. Positive reviews shouldnt 
be trusted because its easy to fake them.
Ive considered these points carefully. However, Im afraid Im not persuaded to depart from 
the position I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain my reasons why.
Mr H says that, when he cancelled the job, the contractors damaged his home out of spite. 
Unfortunately, theres no other evidence to support this claim. However, some of the 
arguments Mr H has made are well founded. For example, I accept that the facts of this 
case, as Mr H describes them, match those of a commonly occurring type of rogue trader 
scam and that Mr H has the same profile as a typical victim of such a scam. However, that 
similarity alone wouldnt be enough to say that its more likely than not that he fell victim to a 
scam here. I need to consider that fact in the light of all the other available evidence. 
Mr H says that the company had three different addresses, which should be regarded as 
suspicious. However, Im not persuaded that there is any reasonable basis for suspicion 
here. According to the Companies House entry, it has had two official addresses. The first is 
that of an independent third party that is used by lots of small businesses to register 
companies. That company held the registration temporarily before transferring it to the 
directors.
The entry then showed that the companys registered address was a location in the home 
counties, whereas the invoices that were issued to Mr H suggested the company was 
operating from an address in London. There are several innocent explanations for this 
difference  the contractors may have operated from more than one location or they might 
have relocated but simply not updated the records. Certainly, theres nothing to suggest that 
any effort was made to conceal the genuine correspondence address of the limited 
company. If Mr H or any of its customers wanted to serve notice of a legal claim, they 
wouldve been able to do so.
Ive considered the various news articles that Mr Hs legal advisors found online. However, 
its speculative to say that theres any connection between the rogue traders described in 
those articles and the ones who visited Mr Hs home. One of them talks about an individual 
who was convicted several years ago of carrying out scams that targeted elderly 
homeowners. However, it seems unlikely that it was the same person. The only connection I 
can see is that the director of the roofing company that Mr H hired has the same surname. 
The individual described in that news article was older, lived in and carried out his crimes in 
a different region of the country and did so using fake names. Although I understand Mr Hs 
suspicions that there might be a link between these people, Im not persuaded theres any 
evidence to suggest there is. 
Mr H has said that the information on the third-party website isnt reliable. Hes pointed out 
that its possible for reviews contained on it to be faked. Nonetheless, I think the process for 
obtaining a registration looks to have been reasonably robust and it wouldve required the 
contractors to have obtained insurance for their activities. I think its unlikely that a rogue 
trader wouldve been able to meet those requirements.
While I can understand Mr Hs position, I still dont think theres strong enough evidence that 
this was a scam, rather than simply a dispute with an incompetent and perhaps unprofessional contractor. In particular, the information on the companys account does 
clearly show them receiving payments for various types of work, including roof repairs. It 
seems highly unlikely that, if these contractors were fraudsters, that he wouldve been their 
only victim to have notified their own bank.
Overall, while I know that this will be a hugely disappointing outcome to Mr H, I remain of the 
view set out in my provisional decision that HSBC cannot be fairly held responsible for his 
losses here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman