DRN-2665438
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded the 
premiums they paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker on 2 February 
2020. The policy was insured by URV. The policy was taken out to cover a trip Mr and Mrs L 
had planned between 16 and 30 July 2020. They paid £118.20 for the policy, which included 
a premium of £41.06 for pre-existing medical conditions.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs L got in touch with URV to ask about their 
potential cancellation options. Their holiday provider cancelled their trip on 25 June 2020. It 
provided them with a full refund of their trip costs. So Mr and Mrs L cancelled their travel 
insurance policy and asked URV for a refund of the premium theyd paid.
Ultimately, URV offered Mr and Mrs L a total cash refund of £98.91, which represented 75% 
of their base premium and a full refund of their medical premium. It also waived a £15 
cancellation administration fee.  
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with URVs offer and they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought URVs offer was fair. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also explained 
that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  
for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 2 February 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He was satisfied that URV had explained how it split the premiums for insurance cover and 
that there wasnt a material unevenness in the way risk was spread across the policy. He 
thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint was 
for URV to pay Mr and Mrs L 75% of their policy premium, together with a full refund of their 
medical premium as a cash refund. This meant he didnt think URV needed to pay Mr and 
Mrs L anything more.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They felt the law needed changing, if URV had acted within it. They 
said their travel provider had offered them a full refund, so they queried why URV wasnt 
doing the same. They felt they shouldve had a pay-out, as their holiday was cancelled and 
the insurance shouldve covered this. They felt URV was finding loop-holes not to pay out 
and they queried whether there was any point to insurance.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I think URVs offer is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a cooling off period where, should you decide that you find that the terms and 
conditions do not meet your requirements, and provided you have not travelled or claimed 
on the policy, you can advise us within 14 days of purchase for a full refund to be 
considered. Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, 
and can confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and that you have not 
travelled, in addition to a £15 administration charge; the following cancellation terms will be 
applied dependant on what type of policy you have purchased.
Single Trip policies - In the event you have not travelled and are not claiming on the policy, a 
refund of 50% of the policy premium and any additional premium applied to your existing 
medical conditions will apply. If you have travelled or are intending to claim, or have made a 
claim (irrespective of whether your claim was successful or not) we will not consider 
refunding any proportion of your premium.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
full refund of premiums.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that if a policy is cancelled 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period, URV will refund 50% of the premium if a 
policyholder hasnt travelled and no claims have been made. In this case, Mr and Mrs 
L took out their policy on 2 February 2020 and didnt cancel it until 1 July 2020. So 
its clear that the policy was cancelled substantially outside of the 14-day cooling-off 
period. This means that the policy terms only entitle them to a 50% refund of 
premium. 
But Ive also taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint; including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think URVs offer to pay Mr and Mrs L a 
total refund of 75% of their base premium, together with a full refund of their medical 
premium is fair and reasonable. URV was carrying the risk of Mr and Mrs L making a 
cancellation claim between 2 February 2020 and the date the policy was cancelled. 
So I think its reasonable for URV to make a deduction of 25% to represent the time it 
was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs L needing to make a cancellation claim for their 
holiday. I say this because the policy was in force until only a couple of weeks before 
Mr and Mrs L were due to travel. And URV has told us that roughly 50% of the 
premium price provides cancellation cover. Ive checked URVs refund calculation 
and Im satisfied it was correct.
Mr and Mrs L have queried why they havent received a pay-out even though their 
policy was cancelled. The cancellation cover in Mr and Mrs Ls travel insurance policy is designed to cover irrecoverable losses, which cant be recovered from 
elsewhere. In this case, theyve confirmed that their travel provider paid them a full 
refund of their trip costs. This means that theyve fully recovered their cancellation 
costs. If URV were also to consider a claim, this would mean that Mr and Mrs L were 
effectively being reimbursed twice for the same loss. So Im satisfied that URV isnt 
liable to pay Mr and Mrs L any compensation following the cancellation of their 
holiday.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling URV to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman