DRN-3788628
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited wont refund to them the 
money that they paid for some holiday club membership points. Theyre being represented in 
their complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D say that they entered into an acquisition agreement for some holiday club 
membership points in November 2007. They also say that they entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with GE Money to pay for those points.
Mr and Mrs D wrote to GE Money in December 2020 and said that it seemed that the credit 
intermediary recorded on the loan agreement wasnt permitted or authorised to arrange 
loans  and they asked it to explain its position. Mr and Mrs D then complained to this 
service and their representative wrote a detailed complaint letter to this service in June 2021.
That letter said, in summary and amongst other things, that the credit intermediary wasnt 
authorised to arrange the loan which makes it unlawful, Mr and Mrs D purchased the loan 
following a lengthy and pressurised sales presentation, the membership points were 
misrepresented to them, there was an unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs D and GE 
Money pursuant to section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, there was no evidence 
that a credit check was conducted before the loan was granted and the high interest rate 
was also an indication of an unfair relationship. It also referred to an overseas court 
judgment which commented on the unlawful structure of a group of companies which 
included the holiday company and provided information about the administration of one of 
those companies. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. An 
ombudsman then considered their complaint and issued a provisional decision in September 
2022. She didnt think that GE Money was authorised at the time of the event being 
complained about because it resigned from Financial Conduct Authority authorisation in 
December 2019  so she said that she couldnt consider any complaint that Mr and Mrs D 
may have about GE Moneys response, or lack of response, to a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act as it doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
She didnt think that Mr and Mrs D had provided enough evidence to show that they had a 
relationship with GE Money as they hadnt provided sufficient evidence to show that a loan 
existed  so she didnt think any claim that an unfair relationship existed under section 140A 
would succeed or that GE Money acted unreasonably by refusing to consider it. But she said 
that even if Mr and Mrs D took out a loan with GE Money in November 2007, she thought 
that it was more likely than not that the loan closed more than six years before they raised 
their claim to GE Money so their section 140A claim would be out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 in any event.
She also said that she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that the business 
that Mr and Mrs D say acted as the credit intermediary wasnt properly authorised to arrange 
the loan. And she said that there was insufficient evidence to show that the lending was 
irresponsible or unaffordable for Mr and Mrs D at the time that any loan was made to them.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative says that the extracts from the documents that it has provided 
result from a subject access request which Mr and Mrs D made to the holiday company and 
the information thats been provided is the manner in which the information was provided to 
them. Mr and Mrs Ds representative says, in summary and amongst other things, that: Mr 
and Mrs D are entitled to know which entity has been found to have lawfully brokered the 
loan and was therefore not in breach of the regulatory requirements; the fact that the loan 
was granted to Mr D in light of his evidenced earnings is a clear indicator that no checks 
were undertaken by GE Money; and that Mr and Mrs D are able to make both their complaint 
under section 75 and their complaint under section 140A. Mr and Mrs Ds representative 
also says that Mr and Mrs D have sought historical bank statements to shows the 
repayments made to the GE Money but no such bank statements have been provided to this 
service.
As the ombudsman who issued that provisional decision has left this service, I let the parties 
know though Id considered all the available evidence and arguments and that, having done 
so, I agree with the findings set out in that ombudsmans provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative says there remains a factual question about who the actual 
company who brokered the credit was and its more likely that not that Mr and Mrs D did 
have a loan from GE Money. It also says that their complaint should be looked at holistically 
and GE Money should not be able to avoid liability because it has handed back its regulatory 
licence. GE Money says that it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is that the claims that they and their representative have made to 
GE Money have been turned down. Those claims were made under sections 75 and 140A 
and the activity about which they are complaining is GE Moneys decision to turn down those 
claims.
Ive issued a separate decision on Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about GE Moneys response to 
their section 75 claim and in this decision Ive set out my findings on their complaint about 
GE Moneys response to their section 140A claim.
Mr and Mrs D raised their concerns about the credit intermediary not being permitted or 
authorised to arrange loans with GE Money in the letter that they sent to in December 2021. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative then sent a complaint letter to this service in June 2021 which 
included claims under section 140A. This service cant usually consider a complaint unless 
the complaint has first been made to the financial business and Mr and Mrs Ds claim under 
section 140A wasnt made to GE Money before they complained to this service. GE Money 
hasnt formally objected to this service considering their complaint and, given its age and the 
circumstances, it seems to me to be in everyones interest for a decision on their section 
140A claim to now be made even though that complaint hasnt been properly made.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has provided page one from an acquisition agreement 
relating to a purchase of some holiday club membership points. The purchase price of the 
points was £14,735 from which a trade-in-value of £5,595 was deducted so the balance due 
was shown as £9,140. Mr and Mrs D say that £9,140 was lent to them by GE Money and 
their representative has provided extracts from a GE Money application form and a loan agreement which include Mr Ds name and signature and were signed in November 2007. 
Those extracts dont include any of the relevant financial information about any loan. 
GE Money says that it has searched its systems and has been unable to trace a record for 
either Mr or Mrs D with the information provided. I dont consider that Mr and Mrs D and their 
representative have provided enough evidence to show that GE Money made a loan to them 
in November 2007 or that they had a relationship with it  so I dont consider that theres 
enough evidence to show that they had a relationship with GE Money and I therefore cant 
say that there was an unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs D and GE Money. 
Even if Mr and Mrs D did have a relationship with GE Money, I consider it to be more likely 
than not that any loan was repaid more than six years before they wrote to GE Money and 
that a court would consider that any claim under section 140A would now be time barred 
under the Limitation Act.
GE Money hasnt been able to find a loan made by it to either Mr or Mrs D and I dont 
consider that Mr and Mrs D and their representative have provided enough evidence to show 
that GE Money made a loan to them in November 2007. GE Money wont be able to identify 
the credit intermediary for a loan that it hasnt been able to find in its records. 
Mr and Mrs Ds letter to GE Money in December 2020 identified the credit intermediary that 
they say was recorded on their loan agreement but theyve not been able to provide a copy 
of their loan agreement and Im not persuaded that theres any further evidence to show that 
that company acted as a credit intermediary. 
Nor will GE Money be able to provide any information about an affordability assessment that 
was made for a loan that it hasnt been able to find in its records and Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that GE Money made a loan to Mr or Mrs D that wasnt 
affordable for them or that it lent to them irresponsibly.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that GE Money has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs D for the difficulties that 
theyve described with their membership and for Mrs Ds health issues, but I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require GE Money to take any action in response to 
their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman