DRN-2687234
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Premier 
packaged bank account in March 2012. He says he did not agree to this upgrade and the 
benefits were not explained to him and that he tried to downgrade on a number of occasions 
but was unable to do so.
Mr S is also unhappy about the charges that were applied to his overdraft.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed this complaint and didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
Premier account. Mr S disagreed with this and therefore his complaint was referred for a 
final decision.
After this a separate adjudicator issued an assessment on the overdraft charges element of 
Mr Ss complaint. Mr S has not objected with this assessment and therefore this decision will 
not address this aspect of his complaint.
I also note that the original adjudicator assessed the sale of Mr Ss Gold account, but I can 
see that Mr S specifically said in his submissions that the Gold account was not mis-sold to 
him. Given this I am not going to address the Gold account in this decision either. So I will 
solely focus on the issues surrounding the Premier account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. With this in mind and having 
considered everything that Mr S and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why.
Firstly I will consider whether Mr S was given a fair choice in taking out his account. Mr S 
said he did not agree to the upgrade. But I can see that Lloyds has provided a letter sent to 
Mr S shortly after the upgrade setting out that his account had been upgraded as a result of 
a conversation between him and a staff member. 
Had Mr S not agreed to the upgrade of his account in this conversation I wouldve expected 
him to have queried this at the time. I note that Mr S was told in this letter that he would 
receive the account free for 18 months, so I think that this was possibly why he agreed to the 
upgrade, coupled with the enhanced benefits that it came with compared to the Gold 
account he held prior to the upgrade.
Overall, I think its likely that Mr S did agree to the upgrade of his account to a Premier 
account, and he did so knowing he had a choice although I understand that he may not 
recall this now, due to the fact it happened over 8 years ago.
This account was recommended to Mr S. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it was a 
broadly reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time.
At the time, the Premier account cost £25 per month and provided a range of benefits 
including worldwide family travel insurance - that included winter sports cover; 
comprehensive breakdown cover; mobile phone insurance for up to two handsets; card 
protection; Identity theft protection; and home emergency cover. It also provided non-
insurance benefits such as a £500 interest-free overdraft facility, with reduced interest rates 
on balances overdrawn by more than £500. As well as airport lounge access and will writing 
service, amongst other benefits.
I can see that Mr S did travel, registered mobile phones under the mobile phone insurance 
policy - including two phones at the same time. He also made 5 claims on the breakdown 
cover and extensively used his overdraft facility. 
Whilst the Gold account did have travel insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown 
cover, it would not have allowed him to register two mobile phone handsets at the same 
time. And the portion of his overdraft facility that was interest free portion wouldve only been 
£100. That in isolation would not normally be enough for me to say that the recommendation 
was appropriate. But given that it was being offered free to Mr S for 18 months, I think that it 
was a broadly reasonable recommendation considering the entire situation. Afterall, as I 
think he agreed to it knowing it was optional and that a cheaper packaged account existed, 
he couldve downgraded his account back to being a Gold account once Lloyds started 
charging him for the account.
I accept that Mr S may not have been told everything during the sale, about all of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mr Ss 
circumstances, that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he 
been given even more information about it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr S mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, he may now believe that his Premier 
account was mis-sold. But based on what Mr S has said, alongside all of the available 
evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that his Premier was mis-
sold.
Finally Mr S has explained that he tried to downgrade his account on a number of occasions 
but was unable to do so. But I cant see that Lloyds has received any formal request to 
downgrade, that is until Mr Ss original complaint letter. And I can see, in response to his 
letter, Lloyds highlighted its downgrade procedures and explained that downgrades can be 
made in branch, over the phone and via online banking. So I cant see that Lloyds did 
anything wrong in relation to this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman