DRN-3285329
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received friom John Lewis Financial Services Limited, 
trading as The Partnership Card, surrounding his request for them to recover recurring card 
transactions from a third-party company.
What happened
Mr S signed up to a subscription with a third-party company and arranged for the monthly 
payments of £13.56 due for that subscription to be paid as recurring transactions from his 
John Lewis credit card. 
A year later, the third-party company increased the subscription payment amount to £26.06 
per month. Mr S contacted John Lewis and asked them to stop all further payments to the 
third-party company and to recover the payments hed already made. John Lewis referred 
Mr S to the third-party company which wasnt willing to reimburse the payments Mr S had 
already made and who also informed Mr S that hed need to pay a cancellation fee if he 
wanted to end his subscription with them at that time.
Mr S wasnt happy with how matters had transpired, and so went bank to John Lewis and 
requested the same resolution as before. John Lewis raised the matter as a dispute, but 
then deleted the dispute without response to Mr S after a month. Mr S wasnt happy about 
this, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
Following contact from this service, John Lewis responded to Mr Ss complaint and 
acknowledged that they hadnt actioned Mr Ss request to stop future payments to the third-
party company when they should have done in the first instance. John Lewis apologised to 
Mr S for this and reimbursed three-months of payments that shouldnt have been allowed to 
have been processed to Mr Ss account, as well as credited reward points equivalent to £20 
to Mr S as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with John Lewiss response and felt that John Lewis should have 
recovered all the historical transactions hed made to the third-party company. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that John Lewis were limited in 
regard to the transactions they could reasonably seek to recover by the chargeback claim 
rules that applied to such requests, and as such they felt that the corrective action of 
reimbursing the three payments to Mr Ss account that John Lewis had already taken 
already represented a fair outcome to that aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
However, our investigator felt that the £20 compensation that John Lewis had paid Mr S 
didnt represent sufficient compensation for the service issues that Mr S experienced, so 
they recommended that John Lewis should make an additional payment of £100 to Mr S.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and didnt accept the recommendation put forward by our 
investigator, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr S might have been disgruntled with the third-party company to 
whom he was paying a subscription, such that he would like John Lewis to have recovered 
the historical transactions that he paid to that company.
However, the recovery of such historical transactions would usually be achieved via a 
chargeback process. This is a process by which disputes such as this can be resolved 
between the card issuer  in this case John Lewis - and third-party merchants, such as the 
company in question, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules arent set by John Lewis but are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on 
the card. The card provider has an agreement with credit providers as to how its cards are 
used, and this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. These 
rules are strict, and John Lewis doesn't have the power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that John Lewis werent required to ask the card provider for 
the historical transactions to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although its 
considered good practice for John Lewis to have done so, if they thought the chargeback 
claim was likely to succeed. 
But in this instance John Lewis didnt feel that Mr Ss claim to recover the historical 
subscription payments was likely to succeed, and so they didnt proceed with the claim. This 
was because the chargeback rules set by the card provider include a 120-day time limit on 
payments that can be reclaimed via the chargeback scheme, and because the historical 
payments in dispute here were older than 120 days.
Its also notable that Mr S was aware of the monthly payments being made to the third-party 
company, and only sought to have the historical payments recovered on his behalf when the 
third-party company increased the monthly payment amount. As such, I feel that if Mr S 
hadnt wanted to have made these payments then it was incumbent on him to take action to 
stop the payments being made in the first instance, rather then seeking to have them 
reimbursed over a year after the payments began being made.
Im aware that Mr S feels that he hasnt received a service for the payments, and that this 
provides justification for their recovery. I can appreciate Mr Ss position here, but I feel that 
that would be a claim that Mr S would need to make to the third-party company directly, if he 
wished to do so. And I dont feel that Mr Ss argument here should affect John Lewiss 
position, which is that Mr S allowed the payments to the third-party company to be made for 
approximately a year before requesting that they be stopped.
All of which means that I dont feel that John Lewis should take any further action in regard 
to Mr Ss request to recover the historical payments made to the third-party company, and I 
feel that any ongoing complaint that Mr S has in this regard should more reasonably be 
directed to the third-party company itself, rather than to John Lewis, who merely facilitated 
the ongoing payments of which Mr S was himself aware and was authorising.
However, I do feel that John Lewis should have stopped further payments being made to the 
company having been notified of Mr Ss unhappiness with that company when they were first 
made aware of this by Mr S. This didnt happen, and John Lewis acknowledged this in their 
response to Mr Ss complaint issued in October 2021.At that time, John Lewis arranged for the reimbursement of three monthly payment amounts 
to Mr Ss account. This corresponded with three payments that John Lewis had allowed to 
be made after Mr S had first asked them to prevent future payments being taken. 
By reimbursing these three payments to Mr S, Im satisfied that John Lewis have taken the 
corrective action necessary to have put Mr S in the financial position he should have been in 
had John Lewis put a stop to future payments to the third-party company when Mr S first 
asked them to do so. And as explained above, I dont feel that the circumstances of Mr Ss 
complaint here warrants the reimbursement of any payments to the third-party company that 
had been made before Mr S first informed John Lewis of his displeasure with that company.
Finally, it would also be expected in circumstances such as this that, as well as taking any 
necessary corrective action, John Lewis would also acknowledge any upset and 
inconvenience Mr S may have incurred, and would make a fair payment of compensation to 
Mr S because of this.
John Lewis did acknowledge that Mr S had been inconvenienced, and they paid 
compensation equivalent to £20 to Mr S because of this. However, our investigator felt that 
further compensation to Mr S was warranted in this instance, and so recommended that 
John Lewis should pay an additional £100 to Mr S.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as fair and reasonable 
by one person not being thought of as such by someone else. But the additional £100 that 
our investigator recommended here does feel fair to me, given the circumstances of this 
complaint, and I can confirm that its commensurate with the further compensation I would 
have instructed John Lewis to pay, had the recommendation not already been made.
All of which means that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour on this limited basis 
only and instructing John Lewis to make a further compensation payment of £100 to Mr S, 
which I feel provides fairer compensation for the trouble and upset hes incurred here. 
I realise this may not be the full outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
John Lewis must make a further compensation payment of £100 to Mr S
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited, trading as The Partnership Card, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman