DRN-4297837
The complaint
Miss F complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) provided service and valued 
her car when she made a claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F had a motor insurance policy with esure covering her car. It was stolen in mid-
November 2022 and recovered by the police about three weeks later. She made a claim 
from esure.
esure assessed the car as being beyond economical repair and declared it a write-off. It 
offered her £34,494 less her excess. It also said it would pay Miss F £500 for her loss of use 
of the car, and a further £350 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Miss F didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service. She complains about esures 
service, delays to the process and a lack of empathy.
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs complaint and thought it would be upheld. They asked 
esure for evidence about how itd calculated the cars value but nothing was supplied. So the 
investigator used this services approach of trade guides to arrive at a valuation of £36,764. 
The investigator thought the £500 for loss of use of the car and £350 compensation were 
both fair and reasonable.
Miss F didnt agree with the amounts awarded for loss of use and compensation, and esure 
didnt agree with the cars valuation. 
Because they didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the car was being recovered to one of esures approved repairers, further damage 
was caused to it by the recovery company. Its my understanding that this damage is the 
subject of a further complaint by Miss F to esure, so it doesnt form part of this complaint.
Valuation
This service doesnt provide valuations for vehicles, but looks to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
Our usual approach is to use trade guides to establish whether an offer is fair.
esure told this service it had used the average of four different trade guide values:
Company A £33,530, 
Company B £33,561
Company C £37,800 
Company D £33,084
Ive done some research into the car and Ive found these values for the month her car was 
stolen, which are based on a vehicle with the same specification and mileage:
Company A £33,540
Company B £33,500
Company C £39,208
Company D £40,808
Although the amount offered by esure is in the range of values in the trade guides, its at the 
lower end. Ive not seen evidence that the car was in a worse condition than average, so Im 
not persuaded that esures use of that value is valid. I think a better technique would be to 
use the average of the four trade guides to arrive at a result.
Miss F has also supplied evidence of cars with higher values. Shes sent adverts for similar 
cars. We dont find adverts persuasive as they dont necessarily represent the actual price a 
car was sold for and I can see that the adverts may vary in specification from Miss Fs car, 
which has an impact on their market value.
After looking at the evidence carefully, I think £36,764 is a fair market value for Miss Fs car.
Service
Ive looked at esures claim file about what went on in Miss Fs claim. I can see that it upheld 
her complaints about its service. esure mistakenly set up two claims, when there should only 
have been one, because her car had collided with some third-party vehicles after it had been 
stolen. I can see this has now been corrected. 
Her car was taken to repairers who rejected it. Miss F then asked for it to be recovered to a 
garage approved by the manufacturer and it was ultimately damaged by the transportation 
company which had delayed the transportation process by a further two weeks. She 
experienced long wait times on the phone, and not being mobile over the Christmas period. 
Ive said above esure offered Miss F £350 for its poor service and £500 loss of use, which is 
calculated according to this services guidelines at £10 per day from the date of loss to the 
date Miss Fs claim was settled.
Ive thought carefully about the amounts offered to Miss F and this services guidelines. I can 
see the theft of her car distressed Miss F, but it seems to me that the inconvenience for her 
particularly over the festive period has been considerable. The delays in esures claims 
process meant she was without a car for an extended time. This service recommends a 
payment of £10 per day when this happens, and I can see esure has agreed to this for 50 
days. I think its offer is fair and reasonable. 
esure has also offered Miss F £350 for her distress and inconvenience. I think Miss Fs 
distress has been significant but took place over a period of time of less than two months. So 
because esure has also agreed to pay her for loss of use, I think its offer of £350 compensation for Miss Fs distress and inconvenience is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct esure Insurance Limited to settle 
Miss Fs claim at a market value of £36,764 subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
esure should also pay Miss F £350 for her distress and inconvenience and £500 for the loss 
of use of her car.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman