DRN-2801085
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O complain that Cambridge Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003 in connection 
with a joint mortgage.
  
What happened
Mrs O and Mr O bought a PPI policy in 2003 just after they applied for a mortgage. They 
were both covered by the PPI policy in a 70/30% benefit split. They said the policy was 
mis-sold.
CBS said the policy was not mis-sold and it rejected their complaint.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because they thought CBS 
hadn't ensured Mrs O was eligible to buy PPI. CBS disagreed with our adjudicators 
view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
CBS added the following points:
There was no evidence confirming Mrs Os impending redundancy;
There was no end date given for her employment;
Her employment uncertainty in the advisers notes was there to support the 
assessment of affordability;
PPI was discussed but signed after that date  they were given a leaflet with all 
the main features.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os and Mr Os case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Os and Mr Os complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
CBS said the sale was non-advised. So for non-advised sales, CBS had to give Mrs O 
and Mr O enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so they could 
make an informed choice about the policy. This includes information about whether Mrs 
O and Mr O were eligible for the policy.
CBS produced a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy. The terms and 
conditions set out the eligibility criteria to buy PPI. One of the criteria is that they 
were not aware of any impending unemployment. Mrs O and Mr O were both aware 
that Mrs O was about to be made redundant and they told the mortgage adviser this 
 who noted their comment in the meeting notes. 
CBS said there was no evidence of an end date for Mrs Os employment and no 
evidence at the time of her redundancy. But I think Mrs Os and Mr Os evidence about 
impending unemployment is consistent and plausible because it was recorded in notes 
made by the CBS adviser in 2003.
From my knowledge of PPI insurance policies, a consumer cant make a claim on the 
policy if he/she hasnt satisfied all of the eligibility criteria. So as Mrs O and Mr O 
were aware that Mrs O was facing impending unemployment, I dont think there is 
enough evidence to show Mrs O satisfied the eligibility criteria for the policy  which 
means she wasnt able to make a successful claim on the policy. 
I think this would have adversely affected them. I say this because the PPI benefit 
was split between them, so they must have decided they both needed cover. If Mrs O 
couldnt claim successfully, this could have affected their ability to continue the 
mortgage repayments. I dont think this was suitably highlighted to Mrs O and Mr O  
especially as the mortgage adviser was aware of the impending redundancy. I dont 
think they would have bought the policy if this had been highlighted to them. I think 
this was a failing in the sale. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied from the evidence that Mrs O was not eligible 
to buy the PPI policy because she did not satisfy the eligibility criteria. And this could have 
affected their ability to make the mortgage repayments. Eligibility is a fundamental 
requirement to buy PPI, so I am also satisfied that I dont need to look for any other reasons 
to uphold the complaint.
 
Putting things right
I think CBS did something wrong, so it needs to do something to put things right for 
Mrs O and Mr O.
My final decision
Cambridge Building Society should put Mrs O and Mr O in the financial position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI.
Cambridge Building Society should refund all the premiums Mrs O and Mr 
O paid towards the PPI policy, and
Cambridge Building Society should pay 8% simple interest on these 
premiums, calculated from when each payment was made to when its 
refunded;
If Mrs O and/or Mr O have/has made a claim on the policy in the past, 
Cambridge Building Society can take the value of that claim off the 
compensation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cambridge Building Society to take off tax from 
this interest. Cambridge Building Society must give Mrs O and Mr O a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I make the aware as set above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman