DRN-3754090
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint about Nationwide Building Society (NBS) relates to NBSs decision to 
reject his mortgage application after a Decision in Principle (DIP) had been issued to him. He 
complains he incurred financial costs as a result of the application being declined feels NBS 
were wrong in linking his credit file to a third party whom I shall name X. He was also 
unhappy with the length of time it took NBS to respond to his complaint. 
What happened
In February 2022 NBS say Mr H made a joint mortgage application online with X, which was 
declined due to adverse credit information found in Xs credit file. Mr H disputes he made a 
joint application. 
On 2 March 2022 Mr H applied to NBS for a DIP for a mortgage in just his name. NBS 
agreed to the application but made it clear in the DIP that it was not a mortgage offer and 
was subject to NBSs lending criteria, valuation and suitability of the property and a pre-offer 
case review by an underwriter. On 26 April Mr Hs mortgage application was assessed by 
NBSs underwriter and declined because the X was listed as an occupant to the property 
and Mr Hs credit file had been linked to Xs credit file.
Mr H was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. 
The first issue to consider is whether Mr H did or did not make a joint application with X in 
February 2022. Mr H said he went through a broker and believes the application to be false. 
NBS has produced evidence of the online application which confirms the application was in 
Mr Hs and Xs name showing their full names. The email address on the application also 
coincides with that of Mr H. So, on a balance of probabilities I think this evidence strongly 
supports the view that it is more likely than not that the application was made in Xs and Mr 
Hs name. That may or may not be an error on the part of the broker, but I find the 
application was so made and NBS were entitled to treat it as a joint application.
When Mr H made the application in March 2022 he stated X was to be an occupant of the 
property. NBSs lending policy dictates that when an application has been initially made in 
joint names, but then declined, it must not subsequently be scored individually to attempt to 
overcome that, even if either of the applicants would be able to demonstrate having sufficient 
income to support the mortgage themselves. Whilst that did not happen here in relation to 
the first application, Mr H did make a second application and NBSs lending policy on this 
issue states his application could only be accepted if there was no longer any connection 
between him and X.
There clearly was a connection as X was going to be an occupant of the property. I know 
Mr H says that there hasnt been a financial association between him and X, but it is the 
credit reference agency which creates the association at the time of the credit check 
application. In Mr Hs case this was done in February when the joint application was made 
so I think NBS are correct in relying on the information it received. 
When NBS issued the DIP in March it explained that a mortgage offer had not been agreed 
and the DIP was subject to further checks. There can be any doubt that NBS were not giving 
a guarantee to Mr H that he would receive a mortgage offer.
NBS was required to consider Mr Hs financial circumstances thoroughly before it decided 
whether to agree to make him an offer of a mortgage. This it did, and it revealed the financial 
association with X and thus the adverse credit information which led to the application not 
passing NBSs lending criteria.
Its not our role to recommend how financial businesses should conduct or arrange their 
commercial operations and processes  thats for them to determine. We dont have the 
power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy 
or procedures. We only look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual 
complaint and check they followed their rules and procedures and have applied them fairly. 
Ultimately it is for NBS to determine whether it wishes to lend on any particular application. 
All we require is that it makes such decisions fairly. NBS were entitled to rely on the 
information it obtained from its credit search which included the adverse information in 
respect of X due to the recorded financial association.
As it is outside NBSs lending criteria to offer a mortgage to a sole applicant who had 
previously had a joint application declined because of adverse information relating to the 
other joint applicant, NBS have acted within their policy. There was evidence that there 
remained a connection with X, since X was said to be an occupant of the property, so I cant 
say that NBS has acted unfairly in applying their policy.
I do appreciate Mr H may have incurred expenses which he now finds he cannot recover, 
but the DIP was not a guarantee of a mortgage and so I cannot say NBS have caused him to 
incur those expenses. 
Mr H feels that NBS took too long to respond to his complaint. He complained to NBS on 
26 April and NBS issued its final response on 15 June. NBS have a period of eight weeks to 
respond to complaints and as they responded within that time frame I canno0t say that they 
have been unfair. 
So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NBS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman