DRN-3328228
The complaint
Mrs S complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) took a direct debit payment 
from her bank account following the end of a Covid payment holiday agreement, which was 
more than the minimum payment she was expecting to pay. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs S applied online and was accepted for a three-month Covid payment 
holiday, on her credit card account with M&S. Mrs S says in early August 2020 she noticed a 
direct debit payment from M&S was debited to her bank account for £355.57 taking her bank 
account into overdraft. Mrs S says she telephoned M&S to understand why such a large 
amount had been taken from her bank account following the Covid payment holiday and she 
was told it was to cover the interest and the excess borrowing over her credit card limit. Mrs 
S says she understood the agreed deferred payments would be spread out, rather than 
taken as one payment, as otherwise it meant she would have been better off simply 
continuing to pay the £100 per month, as she was previously. 
Mrs S says M&S put her in a worse financial position rather than help her. Mrs S also feels 
M&S failed to support her during a difficult time financially and it needs to put matters right. 
M&S says it provided the three month Covid payment holiday plan as Mrs S had requested 
and explained the direct debit it charged in August 2020, was to cover the excess amount 
owed above her credit limit, along with the minimum monthly payment due that month. M&S 
says Mrs S could contact its collections team if she was experiencing financial difficulties.
Mrs S wasnt happy with M&Ss response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt M&S hadnt treated Mrs S fairly when it approved the Covid payment holiday 
and it should have provided alternative forbearance at the time of her application. The 
investigator felt that although M&S had subsequently offered Mrs S £100 by way of 
compensation, during her discussions with them, she didnt feel it went far enough to cover 
the trouble and upset this matter caused Mrs S. 
The investigator felt a compensation payment of £150 was more appropriate here and asked 
M&S  to treat the credit card account as if the payment holiday had not been granted and 
work out the interest that wouldve been charged had Mrs S continued to make the minimum 
payment through this period. The investigator says If this sum was less than the interest Mrs 
S was charged, M&S should calculate the difference and add 8% simple interest from the 
time it was applied to the account, until it is paid.
M&S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs S, following an agreed Covid payment 
holiday on her credit card account, to be asked to make a payment higher that she would 
have done, if she had simply continued to pay the minimum monthly payments over this 
time. 
The first thing to say is that Mrs S applied online for a three month Covid payment holiday in 
April 2020, and M&S have made the point it approved the payment holiday in line with the 
guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at this time. 
M&S have also told this service it didnt need to investigate the circumstances behind Mrs 
Ss Covid payment holiday request and sufficient information was provided to her, both 
before and during the payment holiday period explaining the consequences of such a 
payment holiday.  
While I understand the points M&S make here, Im not fully persuaded by its argument. I say 
this as while I agree that M&S may have met its obligations under the Covid guidance 
provided by the FCA at the time, that in itself wouldnt be reason for it not to offer the most 
appropriate support Mrs S needed at the time - after all M&S are the financial experts here. 
Having looked at the information available, its also fair to say that at the time Mrs S applied 
for the Covid payment holiday, she was already in excess of her credit card limit, albeit only 
by a modest amount but I take the view that should have been taken into consideration by 
M&S. Although M&S says Mrs S wasnt in arrears, she was over her agreed credit limit and 
by adding interest to her credit card account, it inevitably resulted in Mrs S going further into 
excess. By agreeing to this Mrs S was always going to pay back more following the three - 
month payment holiday, than if she simply paid the minimum monthly payments. 
What is important here is Mrs S wasnt offered alternative options, including a payment 
holiday which would have meant in all likelihood no interest would have been charged over 
this time. Having said that and by Mrs Ss own admission, she wouldnt have taken that 
option, as it would have resulted in her credit file being marked. That said, I am satisfied had 
these options been fully explained to Mrs S she would have simply managed her way 
through the next three months, continuing to pay the £100 or so each month rather than 
paying in excess of £350 in one lump sum. I say this as in any event Mrs S paid the full 
amount at the end of the Covid payment holiday, which caused her the financial 
inconvenience she refers to, in her complaint to this service. 
Its not unreasonable to say when the FCA set out its guidance to lenders in April 2020, its 
main consideration was to provide financial support to consumers during this unprecedented 
time and provide what it believed at that time was only temporary. As we now know that 
changed as the pandemic took hold, but here I cant see Mrs S did end up getting any short 
term benefit as she had to pay the full amount back in one lump sum, which I am satisfied 
wasnt in the spirit of what was intended by the FCA. So while M&S have provided 
forbearance here, by it not explaining the other options available to Mrs S, it resulted in her, 
after a three month Covid payment holiday, being financially worse off than if she had simply 
continued her minimum monthly payments- its fair to say that wasnt the intention of this 
type of support. 
I would say that Mrs S could also have done more here when she received her credit card 
statement showing M&S intended to take the lump sum payment at the end of the three-month payment holiday, to see what further forbearance it might have provided. That said 
M&S have been clear to this service it was entitled to take the arrears and the minimum 
monthly payment due in August 2020, so there is no way of knowing what might have been 
agreed with her at that time.
Taking all this into account, although M&S have subsequently offered £100 by way of 
compensation to resolve this complaint, like the investigator and for the reasons I have 
already given, I dont feel this goes far enough. I agree a more appropriate amount of 
compensation would be £150 and in addition for M&S to rework the interest charged to Mrs 
Ss credit card account, based on her making the minimum monthly payments between May 
2020 and July 2020. Should this amount of interest be less than she was charged, it should 
be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest until settled. 
While M&S will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc to pay Mrs S £150 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. In addition for it to rework the interest 
charged to Mrs Ss credit card account, based on her making the minimum monthly 
payments between May 2020 and July 2020. Should this amount of interest be less than she 
was charged, the difference should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest on that 
sum until settled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc to pay Mrs S £150 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. In addition for it to rework the interest 
charged to Mrs Ss credit card account, based on her making the minimum monthly 
payments between May 2020 and July 2020. Should this amount of interest be less than she 
was charged, the difference should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest on that 
sum until settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman