DRN-2319635
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) failed to offer a 
cash settlement which would cover the loss of a ring.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W had home insurance with RSA, including cover for contents with a single 
item limit of £2500. The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr W 
throughout my decision.
Mr W made a claim under his policy for a lost engagement ring. RSA accepted the claim 
and, after receiving evidence of ownership, offered a cash settlement or vouchers for Mr W 
to use at a selection of jewellers. He was unhappy that there was a marked difference 
between the value of the two offers and complained to RSA. He asked it to settle in cash at 
the single item limit, less his excess. RSA maintained its offer.
Mr W also complained to RSA about the standard of service provided by its representatives 
and the delays responding to his complaint. RSA agreed there had been shortfalls and 
offered Mr W £50 by way of apology. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He thought that RSA had made a fair offer 
to settle the claim which was in line with the policy. He explained that complaint handling is 
not a regulated activity and therefore he wasnt able to offer a view on that issue of Mr Ws 
complaint. However, our investigator thought that RSA had fairly addressed its claim 
handling shortfalls.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt wish to go over all the details of his complaint and asked that 
we reconsider the key element  the value of the cash settlement.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres one key issue to Mr Ws complaint, as he explained in his response to our 
investigators view. So rather than going through the detail of each contact, which is what he 
wanted to avoid, Ill focus on the issue of RSAs settlement offer. That said, Ive still taken 
into consideration the complaint as a whole and the documents supplied by both parties, 
even if not mentioned here.
So, the issue of complaint is that despite providing evidence of the purchase price of the 
ring, and an independent jewellers assessment of the current value, RSA only offered Mr W 
a cash settlement of around half the rings value.
Ive looked at Mr Ws policy and schedule for information relevant to his complaint. The 
schedule provides details of cover and tells me that Mr W had contents insurance, with a 
claim for any single article limited to £2500. His excess was set at £150. The ring is a single 
item so, strictly, the maximum RSA would be required to pay is the limit less his excess: 
£2350. That is the amount Mr W would like RSA to cash settle his claim.
The policy wording provides information about how RSA will settle a claim. Ive included only 
the wording relevant to loss (not repair) here:
How we settle claims 
1 b. Where the lost item can be replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not 
available we will replace it with an item of similar quality.
c. Where we are unable toreplace an item with an item of similar quality, we will agree a 
cash payment with you based on the replacement value.
d. Where we can offerreplacement through a preferred supplier, but instead you 
request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not normally exceed 
what we would have paid our preferred supplier.
4 Where an excess applies, this will be taken off the amount of your claim.
5 If loss  happens and the sum insured on your schedule is less than the cost of 
replacingwe will, where appropriate, take off an amount for wear and tear from the cost of 
the new item...
6 The most we will pay for any one claim is the amount it will cost us to replaceas new but 
not more than the sum insured or any limits shown on your schedule.
So, the wording tells me that RSA can settle the claim by replacing the lost ring using its 
preferred supplier, or by settling in cash for the same amount it would cost RSA to replace 
the ring.
The key figures for Mr Ws claim are as follows:
Mr W supplied evidence that he insured the ring for £2250 over 25 years earlier.
RSAs jeweller valued the ring at £3530.
His jeweller supplied a valuation of the ring nearer to £4000. 
The difference in valuations is 10%, give or take, and I dont think Mr W is overly concerned 
about that. I think thats reasonable given that neither jeweller had anything other than a 
photo/description of the ring on which to base a valuation.
The problem came about, then, because if RSA sourced and replaced with a similar ring, it 
would get a significant discount from the retailer. So, the cost to RSA would be much less 
than if Mr W bought the ring directly from the retailer. I see that Mr Ws jeweller explained 
this, too. In this situation, Mr W wouldve had a replacement ring and the cost to RSA 
wouldve been minimised. I think thats fair.
But RSA cant replace the ring with an identical one, and Mr W asked to settle in cash, so it 
based its settlement offer on what it wouldve cost it to replace using its preferred retailer. 
Thats in line with the policy terms so I dont think its unreasonable. RSA confirmed that its 
cost directly with the retailer wouldve been £1846, so thats the amount it offered Mr W to 
cash settle.
RSA also offered Mr W the option of £3550 in vouchers instead (rounded up from £3530) to 
use at named jewellers. Im not sure whether this has been explained before, but RSA is able to offer more in vouchers because it will still get a discount from the retailer, which in 
turn allows Mr W to benefit from the discount compared to a cash value.
I know Mr W wants the cash settlement so he can buy a new ring from his preferred jeweller. 
Hes willing to settle for £2350 to do so, which is less than the estimated value of his ring. 
While I realise he may have lost confidence in RSAs jeweller, he isnt obliged to buy from 
the company he had been dealing with. The vouchers RSA offered can be used at other 
jewellers and he would be able to buy a new ring of a similar value. So, I cant see any 
benefit to Mr W in seeking the cash settlement of a lesser amount.
The position Mr W is in now, is that he can accept the cash settlement which is less than 
hed like but in line with the policy, or he can accept the vouchers which would enable him to 
buy a ring of a similar value to the one he lost without having to contribute any more to it. I 
think RSAs offers are fair, in line with the policy, and I cant see that it has done anything 
wrong here.
Briefly, I understand that Mr W didnt have the best experience when he made his claim. 
RSA has accepted that it (or its representatives) made mistakes in the way it handled a call 
and incorrectly addressed letters. It offered Mr W £50 by way of apology, which I think is 
reasonable for the shortfalls. I know Mr W is also unhappy with the way RSA handled his 
complaint. As we have explained, complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so we dont 
have the jurisdiction to decide on that issue.
In summary, I think RSA made fair offers in line with his policy terms, and I wont be asking it 
to do any more. I realise Mr W will be disappointed, especially because of the overall 
frustration that a piece of jewellery with sentimental value simply cant be replaced, but I 
hope he can understand why Ive reached this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman