DRN-3042606
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any of the commission it 
received from payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums associated with his mortgage. 
What happened
Nationwide says that the rules relating to PPI commission dont apply to Mr Ms mortgage.
Our adjudicator looked in to this, but thought that what Nationwide said was correct.
Mr M disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
him, so Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need 
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would still need to be covered by the Consumer Credit 
Act on this date.
On 31st October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage  such as a 
further advance or interest rate switch. Different lenders took different approaches to this. 
Nationwide has provided its internal system records that show that Mr Ms mortgage 
accounts became regulated on 1 November 2007, and that other further advances closed 
before 6 April 2008  so the rules dont apply.
Mr M disputes this and has provided statements from Nationwide which label some of his 
mortgage accounts as not regulated after 6 April 2008.
We went back to Nationwide to query this discrepancy  and it has apologised for the 
confusion this has caused Mr M. It says that there mustve been an error when printing the 
letters as the back-office systems clearly show when the mortgage account became 
regulated.
I can appreciate that this is frustrating and confusing for Mr M  and I know he will be 
disappointed with this information. But I think that the evidence that Nationwide has provided 
does show that his mortgage became regulated when it says it did.
So, Im afraid that as Mr Ms mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008, it was no 
longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. This means the FCAs rules and guidance dont 
apply. And Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the PPI 
he had with his mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman