DRN-3214848
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a 
scam. she feels it should have done more to protect her.
What happened
Miss T found a social media account that claimed to be offering help with investing. She 
followed the account for a while and saw posts which seemed to show people were 
successfully receiving investment returns with the assistance of the account owner. And so, 
after a while, Miss T decided to invest.
Miss T didnt know at the time, but the account was controlled by a scammer. So when she 
sent £800 via international bank transfer as instructed it went to them, and there was no 
genuine person helping her with investments.
It was around a week after sending the money that Miss T realised something was wrong. 
She contacted HSBC and it tried to recover the money by contacting the receiving bank, 
which Ill refer to as B.
B didnt send any funds back. It said it would require an indemnity from HSBC if it was to 
assist further. HSBC wouldnt provide one and took no further action. It said it wouldnt be 
able to reimburse Miss Ts loss as shed authorised the transaction herself and it had 
received no money back from B.
Miss T was unhappy with HSBCs response. She felt it ought to have done more to warn her 
about scams, particularly because she felt the transaction was unusual for her. So she 
brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. 
He said that the transaction wasnt so unusual that HSBC ought to have stepped in to 
question it. And so, because Miss T auhtorised it, it was fair and reasonable that HSBC had 
declined to refund it.
Miss T explained to us that she suffers from BPD, anxiety, and depression. She said the 
bank knew about this and so ought to have been more alert to suspicious payments out of 
her account. 
Our investigator considered the available evidence but couldnt see that the bank had ever 
been told about Miss Ts mental health. And as she couldnt provide any further evidence 
either, he couldnt say it was likely the bank knew about it.
Miss T asked for her complaint to be reviewed as she disagreed with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss T further but Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. I dont find that HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I know Miss T has found this ordeal very distressing and its had a big impact her, not only 
financially, but mentally and emotionally too. Falling victim to a scam like this can 
understandably be incredibly distressing. Its a particularly cruel crime and in reaching my 
findings I do have sympathy for Miss T and what shes been through. But it does remain the 
case that I cant see that HSBC has acted unfairly.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the staring position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Service Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account here.
But that isnt the end of the story. I consider that, as a matter of good industry practice at the 
time, HSBC ought to have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  
particularly out of character or unusual ones  that could involve fraud or scams. This is 
particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
I have taken all these points into account and have reviewed the spending history on 
Miss Ts account. And, overall, I dont find that the £800 Miss T sent was so usual that HSBC 
ought to have had concerns about it or believed that Miss T was at risk of financial harm. 
I appreciate that £800 is a lot of money and by no means an insignificant amount to Miss T. 
And I accept that Miss T wasnt in the habit of regularly sending such a sum. But it is not 
such a large figure that Id expect the bank to have been concerned by it, considering how 
many similar value payments are made every day. 
I can also accept that this was an international payment which, again, Miss T didnt regularly 
make. But given the relatively low value I still dont find this additional feature means the 
payment ought to have stood out to HSBC.
And so, while this wasnt an altogether ordinary transaction for Miss T I believe HSBC acted 
fairly and reasonably in processing it in line with Miss Ts instructions. It follows that I dont 
find that the bank ought to have stepped in to question it and nor was it required to warn her 
about the risks of making such a payment. 
Miss T has said that the bank knew about her mental health and so ought to have been 
more alert to spending out of her account. Like our investigator, Ive not seen evidence to 
show that the bank did know about Miss Ts mental health. But, even if it did, Im not 
persuaded it would lead to a different outcome here. I believe the payment would still not be 
considered such a risk that the bank ought to have stopped it. 
Im satisfied the bank did what it needed to to try and recover Miss Ts money when it was 
notified of the scam. It promptly contacted the receiving bank, B, to ask that it send the 
money back. But B declined to send back any money without first receiving an indemnity 
from HSBC. Its worth noting here that its not clear that any of Miss Ts money could actually 
have been returned. B only said it may be able to help; not that it could definitely return the 
funds. 
In any case, HSBC wasnt required to provide an indemnity and I dont find it would be fair 
and reasonable to say it ought to have done so. That would be to say it would have to 
provide legal liability for something its not required to, which would not be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.I am sorry that this has happened to Miss T. But I cant say that HSBC has acted incorrectly 
or that it ought to now compensate her for her loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman