DRN-3013921
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined a chargeback claim. 
 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss G used her debit card to purchase a used car from a garage. But 
Miss G has explained the car quickly experienced mechanical problems so she contacted 
the merchant to ask for help. Miss G ultimately contacted Santander and raised a 
chargeback claim. 
During the claim, Santander asked Miss G to provide documents and information. Miss G 
provided information to Santander online, including an independent engineers report. The 
chargeback claim was processed by Santander. The merchant defended the claim and said 
Miss G had inspected the vehicle with a third party engineer before purchasing and that it 
was of satisfactory quality when collected. 
Miss G complained but Santander didnt agree it had acted unfairly by declining her 
chargeback claim. Miss G referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They didnt agree Santander had made a mistake by declining the chargeback 
claim, but the investigator thought the service provided by Santander shouldve been better 
and noted Miss G had been unnecessarily asked to resubmit documents. The investigator 
asked Santander to pay Miss G £50 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
Santander agreed with the investigators recommendation but Miss G asked to appeal. As a 
result, Miss Gs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss G says the vehicle she purchased wasnt fit for purpose and had several 
serious defects. Santander says it couldnt provide recourse under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 as Miss G originally requested, but it did raise a chargeback claim on her behalf. I need 
to consider how the claim was handled and whether the decision to decline it was 
reasonable. 
Miss G has explained she had to repeatedly submit the same documents and information to 
Santander during the chargeback process. And I can see that Santander sent repeated 
requests for the same information to Miss G. Like the investigator, Im satisfied the process 
of completing the claim couldve been quicker and its clear Santander continued to ask for 
information Miss G had already submitted. I agree with the investigator that Santander 
should pay Miss G £50 to reflect the inconvenience caused by asking for the same 
information. 
Santander considered the chargeback claim and went on to obtain information from the 
merchant. The outcome of a chargeback claim isnt guaranteed and whilst I have reviewed 
the information Miss G supplied, I also have to take into account the counter points made by 
the merchant. Ultimately the outcome of a chargeback claim is decided by the card scheme 
provider and businesses involved. In this case the information provided by both parties was 
considered and the decision to decline the chargeback claim was taken. 
Whilst I understand my decision will disappoint Miss G, Im satisfied her chargeback claim 
was fairly reviewed and considered by Santander. Im satisfied it acted fairly when it took the 
decision to decline Miss Gs chargeback claim. 
I agree with the investigator that Santander made unnecessary information requests to Miss 
G. As a result, Im upholding this complaint in part and directing Santander to pay Miss G 
£50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Miss G £50.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman