DRN-3747765
The complaint
Ms U complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) added her details to a fraud 
database and closed her accounts.
What happened
Ms U paid in a cheque from her father, drawn on another bank, B. B told Halifax the cheque 
was fraudulent, and Halifax blocked Ms Us account.
Halifax asked Ms U to prove her entitlement to the money. Ms U explained the money was a 
gift, and said shed look to get B to confirm this. 
Ms U provided Halifax with a letter from B and a power of attorney document. But Halifax 
didnt think this was enough to show the payment was genuine. Halifax didnt receive 
anything further from B, so it returned some of the money to B and gave Ms U notice it was 
closing her accounts.
Halifax also added Ms Us details to a fraud database.
Ms U complained to Halifax, but it wouldnt agree to remove Ms Us details from the fraud 
database. Halifax said it had been told, by B, the cheque had been obtained fraudulently. 
Halifax said it hadnt seen any proof of entitlement but if B was to confirm the cheque wasnt 
obtained fraudulently Halifax would look to remove Ms Us details from the fraud database.
Halifax also said it didnt think it had provided any poor service to Ms U.
Ms U wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to this service. An 
adjudicator looked into things and thought Ms Us complaint should be upheld in part. The 
adjudicator thought Ms Us details should be removed from the fraud database, because it 
wasnt clear this was fraud, and more likely a safeguarding exercise by B.
The adjudicator thought B had been protecting its customer, Ms Us father, and hadnt fully 
explained this to Halifax. Halifax agreed to remove Ms U from the fraud database.
But the adjudicator didnt think Halifax had to reopen Ms Us accounts. The adjudicator 
thought, at the time, it was reasonable for Halifax to load Ms Us details to the fraud 
database. And, because of that, it was fair for Halifax to close Ms Us accounts, and the 
adjudicator couldnt force Halifax to reopen Ms Us closed accounts.
Ms U said Halifax had no right to deny her service, and she had every right to get her 
accounts back if shed been proved innocent.
Ms U said shed been left without a bank account and this had caused her lots of 
inconvenience. Ms U asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute B told Halifax Ms U had obtained a cheque fraudulently. Halifax told Ms U 
this in the final response it sent, and Ive seen the notes Halifax holds.
Its also clear B had concerns about Ms Us fathers capacity at the point the cheque was 
issued. And it seems because of this it asked for the money to be returned.
Ive seen a letter from B, as has Halifax, and it seems B was safeguarding Ms Us fathers 
account and money. But this doesnt necessarily mean the money was obtained fraudulently.
Ms U has sent in some documents about a power of attorney pending at the time the cheque 
was paid in. But this power of attorney wasnt in place, and the cheque was signed by 
Ms Us father, not an attorney.
I dont think any of the power of attorney documents proved Ms Us entitlement to the 
cheque. I think it was fair for Halifax to want B to confirm it had no concerns with the cheque, 
and B didnt do that.
At the time Halifax added Ms Us details to the fraud database I think it could fairly rely on 
the message it had from B. And the message from B was Ms U had obtained the cheque 
fraudulently, so I think Halifax acted reasonably when it loaded Ms U to the fraud database.
But once at this service, the adjudicator was able to bring all the evidence together, what 
Ms U sent in, Halifax and B, and explain why it seemed unfair to keep Ms Us details on the 
fraud database.
The evidential bar for a fraud database loading is, rightly, high. Details remain on the 
database for six years and can have quite dramatic effects on someones ability to access 
banking and lending.
Looking at all the evidence we have now, I think Halifax should remove Ms Us details from 
the fraud database. B was looking to protect its customer, but theres not, now, enough proof 
to say the cheque was fraudulently obtained.
But this doesnt change my thinking it was fair, at the time the cheque was paid in, to load 
Ms U to the fraud database.
B told Halifax Ms U had fraudulently obtained money, so I think Halifax was fair in closing the 
accounts. And Halifax gave Ms U appropriate notice of the account closures.
Theres a legal right to a basic bank account, but this doesnt extend to current or saving 
accounts. Ms U wants Halifax to reopen her account, now its agreed to remove her from the 
fraud database, but I dont think Halifax has to do this.
Halifax can choose who banks with it, and I wont be telling Halifax it must reopen Ms Us 
accounts. But Ms U is free to approach Halifax and see if it will offer new accounts to her.
Ms U has said she struggled to access banking whilst her details were on the fraud 
database. I dont think Halifax was wrong to load Ms U to the fraud database at the time it 
did. If other banks saw this record, and refused to open accounts, I dont think I can fairly hold Halifax responsible for this.
And Ms U has said Halifax provided her with poor service. Ive looked through the contact 
between Ms U and Halifax and cant see any examples of poor service.
Its clear Ms U disagreed with Halifax closing her accounts, and adding her details to a fraud 
database, but I dont think this, on its own, is poor service.
Putting things right
Although I think Halifax was fair in loading Ms Us details to a fraud database, at the time it 
did, I think its now fair to remove those details.
And although I understand being loaded to a fraud database will have a big impact on Ms U, 
because Halifax was fair to add it the details at the time I dont think it needs to compensate 
Ms U for any impact this loading had.
And I dont think Halifax has to reopen Ms Us accounts, but Ms U is free to ask Halifax if itll 
consider opening accounts for her now.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Halifax should remove Ms Us details from any 
fraud databases its added them to if it hasnt already done this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman