DRN-1686497
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd mis-sold her and her late husband 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. She brings her complaint in her personal 
capacity, but also on behalf of her late husband as administrator of his estate. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was taken out to cover Mr 
and Mrs B's mortgage and was in Mr B's name only. It provided him with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
PPI wasn't discussed - she only saw the salesperson once. 
It was clear from the form completed at the time that they didn't want a policy, but 
wanted information so they could check it first.
They never agreed to taking PPI, it was just given to them.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Firstly I want to acknowledge that it's been difficult for Mrs B to pursue this complaint. This is 
because the mortgage application took place through a broker and, because of changes in 
businesses over the years, it's been difficult to establish which business is now responsible 
for what happened more than 15 years ago.
It's now clear that a broker recommended the mortgage during a meeting. The mortgage 
was provided by UCB Home Loans and all of the paperwork was completed by post, 
including the PPI paperwork. So I find that UCB Home Loans didn't recommended the PPI. 
As UCB Home Loans didnt recommend the policy, it didnt need to ensure that it was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
So the key question I need to consider is did UCB Home Loans give Mr and Mrs B 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where 
they could make an informed choice about the insurance they were buying?And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the 
sale?
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
Mrs B says PPI was never discussed, and they never agreed to take it; it was just given to 
them as part of the mortgage. It's difficult for me to say exactly what happened, so I've 
placed more reliance on the paperwork that was completed at the time. 
There was a one page "Authority & Declaration" form which included a separate section 
headed "Your mortgage payment protection insurance requirements". This included clear 
options to decline the PPI, or to be sent details about how to apply. Mrs B ticked the box to 
say that she wanted more details and included a handwritten note saying "please send 
details for comparison to the one I already have".
UCB Home Loans sent its mortgage offer - without PPI - in December 2001. So it was clear 
Mr and Mrs B didn't have to have PPI for their mortgage application to be accepted. 
UCB Home Loans says it sent details about the PPI to Mr and Mrs B in January 2002. For a 
policy to be set up, Mr and Mrs B would have had to complete a PPI application form. 
Unfortunately UCB Home Loans can't provide a copy of that form. I don't find this 
unreasonable or unsurprising given the time that's passed. But a form must have been 
completed because the PPI was set up in Mr B's name only. This couldn't have happened 
without Mr and Mrs B providing that instruction on an application form.
I accept what Mrs B says about there being no discussion about the PPI. But there didn't 
need to be - Mr and Mrs B asked for details, UCB Home Loans sent them the information, 
and Mr and Mrs B completed an application.
So, I think Mr and Mrs B were given a choice about whether to take the PPI. Overall, I think 
UCB made Mr and Mrs B aware that PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
Its possible the information UCB Home Loans gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the 
policy if they had received better information. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr B's name only and he was eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely he needed better  
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mrs B says her husband would have received sick pay if he couldn't work. She's provided 
some evidence of a long term sickness benefit scheme, but this seems to be for a different 
employer than the one Mr B worked for when he applied for the mortgage. In any event, the 
PPI was intended to be in place for the lifetime of the mortgage. Their mortgage was a major 
long term financial commitment and their home was at risk if they couldnt meet the 
repayments. I think they probably wanted to make sure their mortgage payments would be 
covered if Mr B couldnt work, or became unemployed, particularly as Mrs B had been retired 
due to ill health. I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs B before they 
agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were told it would cost £25.20 each month until after 
the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information 
about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Bs decision to purchase the policy. They 
had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall 
I think they would have still taken out the policy.
 My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman