DRN-2919094
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly collected loan payments from a joint 
account. He said the loan was his wifes and that hed told HSBC that they had separated. 
Mr W said that the loan payments caused the account to exceed its agreed overdraft limit.
What happened
Mr W had a joint bank account with is wife with HSBC. In late 2019 Mr W separated from his 
wife. In early 2020, he said he told HSBC about the separation.
Mr W said he later discovered that his wife had taken out a personal loan with HSBC and 
that the loan payments had been taken from the joint account. That led to the account 
exceeding its agreed overdraft limit. Mr W said he only found out when he was applying for a 
mortgage  and he discovered arrears relating to the joint account on his credit file. Mr W paid 
the outstanding amount to bring the account into credit.
Mr W complains that HSBC hasnt treated him fairly. He said that HSBC:
Didnt tell him that the account had gone over its overdraft limit.
Effectively made him jointly and severally liable for a debt that was in his wifes sole 
name.
Caused him difficulties in obtaining a mortgage because of the impact on his credit file.
The investigator didnt consider that HSBC was aware there was a dispute between Mr W 
and his wife. But he did think it should have stepped in earlier in view of the conduct of the 
account. The investigator said that HSBC should refund half the unarranged overdraft fees 
that were applied to the account.
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Mr W did not. He said HSBC had shown that it 
wasnt prepared to extend the overdrawn balance on the joint account as it had returned 
direct debits for other debts. Yet it allowed the payments for his wifes loan to go through, 
effectively creating a joint debt that impacted his credit rating. Mr W pointed out that the 
investigator had said that HSBC should perhaps have defaulted his wifes loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt clear whether Mr W has started divorce proceedings or not. If he does so, this matter 
can be taken into account in any financial settlement. Im considering what is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint in respect of what HSBC has (or 
has not) done.
The evidence we have does not support that HSBC was aware that Mr W had separated 
from his wife. The only contact between HSBC and Mr W in early 2020 was a phone call. We 
have a recording of that phone call. Mr W discusses an unpaid direct debit. But he did not 
tell HSBC that hed separated from his wife. 
I dont consider the fact that Mr W had set up a new bank account in his sole name at a 
different address would be enough to alert HSBC to a potential dispute between him and his 
wife. I dont think it would be fair for me to say that a bank should step in in those 
circumstances. 
The terms and conditions of the account say that HSBC will only require both parties to 
agree make decisions about the account if it is told about a dispute. As there is no evidence 
HSBC was told about a dispute, it was reasonable for it to allow the account to operate as a 
joint account, with either account holder able to use it. It follows that HSBC hasnt acted 
unfairly in collecting payments for a debt in a sole name from the joint account. Therefore, 
Mr W is jointly and severally liable for the full overdrawn balance.
I appreciate Mr Ws point that HSBC declined other direct debits that would have taken the 
account into an unarranged overdraft, yet it continued to allow his wifes loan payments to 
HSBC to be collected from the account, exceeding the agreed overdraft limit. The terms and 
conditions allow HSBC to authorise particular payments on top of the arranged overdraft. So 
I dont consider it acted unfairly by allowing those payments to be made. The fact that it 
returned other payments unpaid does not mean that it was unreasonable to make the 
payments it did.
While the terms and conditions do place an onus on the account holders to get the account 
back within its arranged overdraft limit within 31 days, it doesnt follow that meant HSBC 
should not allow an unarranged overdraft to continue for longer than that. I do agree with the 
investigator that HSBC should have been on notice that there was a problem with the 
account sooner than it did. But I consider his suggestion for HSBC to refund half of the 
unarranged overdraft fees is a fair way to put things right.
I note that HSBC has provided evidence that between February and June 2020 it sent over 
20 text message alerts in relation to the joint account. That is in addition to email messages 
it sent to Mr Ws online account. I consider that HSBC took reasonable steps to tell Mr W 
what was happening with the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank UK Plc should refund  half the unarranged overdraft 
fees applied since the start of 2020 to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman