DRN-3360361
The complaint
Mr C complains about his insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declining his claim for 
damage to his property in adverse weather.
UKI use agents to administer the policy. Reference to UKI includes these agents.
Mr C was supported by a representative when making his complaint. References to Mr C 
include his representative.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr Cs property was subject to heavy rain, leading to water entering the 
property and causing damage to ceilings of a bedroom and living room, as well as to 
contents in both rooms. Mr C contacted UKI to make a claim for the damage. Based on what 
Mr C said about the incident, UKI logged the claim under the heading of storm damage. UKI 
appointed a surveyor (B) who inspected the property the following day. 
Based on Bs report from the inspection, UKI decided the issues and damage werent due to 
storm damage as the level of rainfall wasnt enough to be considered a storm (based on the 
wind and rain thresholds UKI used to determine a storm). UKI went on to say that the 
rainwater had entered through a flat roof that had been previously patched and (in UKIs 
view) had de-laminated over time. Other marks on the ceilings also indicated water had been 
coming in on previous occasions. Based on this UKI declined Mr Cs claim as there wasnt 
evidence of storm damage and the damage was the result of gradual deterioration of 
materials over time (the adverse weather had highlighted existing issues with the roof).
 
Unhappy at the claim being declined, Mr C complained to UKI. But they didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response they referred to the earlier findings and conclusions from 
Bs report and confirmed their decision to decline the claim because the policy didnt cover 
damage that was caused gradually and because of wear and tear. 
Subsequently, when challenged by Mr C that the damage could be assessed under the 
accidental damage section of the policy, UKI said theyd also considered whether the 
damage might fall under this heading. But theyd concluded water stain marks on the ceilings 
indicated the damage wasnt a one-off event (the definition of accidental damage) so they 
wouldnt accept the claim as accidental damage.
Mr C then complained to this service. He disputed the findings of Bs report (which he said 
was based on a brief inspection) and UKIs subsequent decline of his claim. He said the 
damage was due to torrential rain, which he considered to be storm conditions. He also 
thought that any damage should also be considered under the accidental damage section of 
the policy. He wanted UKI to accept the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI didnt need to take any action. 
From the weather reports for the date of the incident she concluded the weather conditions 
were sufficient to be considered a wet storm (that is, the wind conditions werent strong 
enough to be considered a storm, but the rainfall levels were). But the investigator was more 
persuaded by Bs report that concluded the damage had occurred gradually over time, and 
not from a [one-off] storm event. So, the storm had highlighted an existing issue. On the 
question of whether the damage could be considered accidental, she concluded it couldnt 
as the damage had occurred gradually and wasnt the result of a sudden or unforeseen 
event. Based on this, she concluded UKI had acted fairly in declining the claim.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He maintained the damage had been caused by the heavy rainfall on the date of 
the incident and that the level of rainfall constituted storm conditions. Also, there had been 
no further ingress of water after the date of the incident, which he thought indicated the roof 
wasnt in a poor condition prior to the incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr C.
The key issue in Mr Cs complaint is that UKI unfairly declined his claim for damage to his 
property following adverse weather. Mr C says the damage was caused by heavy rainfall on 
the date of the incident, the level of which would constitute storm conditions. He also says 
the property was maintained and there wasnt any evidence of previous ingression of water 
(and has provided statements from third parties in support of this view). He also disputes the 
findings of B, saying the visit was only brief. For their part, UKI say there wasnt evidence of 
storm damage and the damage was the result of gradual deterioration of materials over time 
(the adverse weather highlighted existing issues with the roof). They say their decision to 
decline the claim was in line with the policy terms, which didnt cover damage caused 
gradually or because of wear and tear.
Ive considered both views, together with the associated evidence and reports, including the 
available photographs. As the cause of the damage was assessed as potentially storm-
related, then Ive considered the three key issues we look at in such cases:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Ive looked at the information about the weather conditions around the 
date of the incident, from the weather service we use. It indicates a wet storm on the date 
Mr C reported the damage, meaning significant rainfall (but not significant wind). This is 
consistent with Mr Cs description of the rainfall on that date. So, Ive concluded there were 
storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
Ive also considered Mr Cs point about no further ingress of water after the date of the 
incident, which he thought showed the roof wasnt in a poor condition prior to the incident. 
However, the weather reports for the two months following the incident show little rainfall in 
the area of Mr Cs property (which isnt surprising given the time of year) so I dont think 
thats relevant as the key is the condition of the roof at the time of the incident. 
 
Having concluded there were what we would consider storm conditions on the date of the 
incident, Ive then considered the second and third questions.In considering these questions, Ive thought carefully about what Mr C and UKI have said. 
Ive looked at Bs report, including the photographs taken during the inspection. In doing so, 
Ive also considered what Mr C said about the report and the brevity of Bs inspection. 
However, I think the report is clear and comprehensive, including the photographs of the roof 
as well as the interior of the property. Ive also noted the time stamps of the photographs 
indicate the inspection lasted longer than the time Mr C said it took. 
In terms of the report findings, Im persuaded they support the conclusion that the damage 
wasnt the result of a one-off incident (the wet storm) and that there was evidence of 
previous water ingressions as well as issues with the flat roof above the property (pooling of 
water that wasnt recent, together with breakdown of materials). Ive considered what Mr C 
has told us about the roof previously having been maintained (along with invoice evidence to 
support that view) but Ive noted this work goes back six to seven years before the incident. 
So, Im not persuaded it shows the roof was in good condition, given Bs observations (and 
the associated photographs) from the inspection. 
Ive also noted the reports findings about marks on interior ceilings indicating previous 
repairs and that some damage (and water marks) are historic as well as recent. Im 
persuaded by the conclusion that the damage is consistent with water ingress over time and 
not something that was the result solely of the heavy rainfall on the date of the incident. Ive 
also considered the statements from third parties provided by Mr C in support of his view, 
but I dont think they outweigh the findings from Bs inspection and report.
Having considered these points carefully, Im persuaded the damage wasnt caused solely 
by the heavy rainfall on the date of the incident and that there were existing issues that were 
highlighted by the heavy rain. But it wasnt the main (or dominant) cause of the damage. In 
their final response, UKI refer to the policy terms and conditions that, under a heading This 
policy doesnt cover states:
we dont cover:
Any damage caused gradually.
Wear and tear.
Taking all these points into account, then Ive concluded UKI acted fairly and reasonably, in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, in declining Mr Cs claim. 
 
Mr C makes a further point that the damage could be covered under the accidental damage 
section of the policy, as it was the result of a one-off event. UKI say they considered this, but 
the damage wasnt the result of a one-off event (it occurred gradually) so wouldnt be 
covered as accidental damage.
Ive considered both views, but I dont agree that the damage would be covered as 
accidental damage. The policy defines accidental damage as:
sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens unexpectedly.
However, the same policy exclusion for damage caused gradually or by wear and tear would 
also apply to accidental damage, so Ive concluded this wouldnt mean cover would be 
provided under the accidental damage section of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman