DRN-3087711
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lex Autolease Ltd unfairly declined to backdate a reduction in the 
mileage allowance in a hire agreement for a car and refund the resulting difference in cost..
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S entered into a 24-month hire agreement for a car with Lex 
Autolease. The agreement had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 miles and had an 
initial payment of £928.49 followed by 23 months at £309.47.
Due to the pandemic Mr S found that he used the car less than he had expected. He says 
his employer confirmed with him in February 2020 that the expectation of travel for work 
would be significantly impacted due to the current circumstances.
In April 2021 Mr S contacted Lex Autolease to discuss early termination of the hire 
agreement. He was advised that rather than pay any charges for cancelling the agreement 
he could alter the mileage allowance and/or the duration of the hire agreement for the car 
online. Mr S reduced the mileage allowance to 5,000 per year which reduced his monthly 
payments to £232.
Mr S complained to Lex Autolease and said that he had been unaware he could alter the 
mileage allowance and if he had, he would have done so back in February 2020. He said 
hed unfairly paid £1,005.81 more than he had needed. He asked that Lex Autolease 
reimburse him the difference in the monthly costs.
Lex Autolease didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that it was clearly set out in the 
agreements terms and conditions that there was a clause that said Mr S was able to alter 
both the mileage and duration of the agreement.
Mr S was unhappy at Lex Autoleases response. He said he was disappointed that Lex 
Autolease hadnt specifically pointed out this clause in the contract to him and that it had 
then refused to backdate the change to the mileage. He said he felt exploited and thought it 
would be good customer service to have reimbursed him in these circumstances.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think Lex Autolease had done anything wrong or made a mistake in not referring Mr S 
to the clause that allowed him to make changes to the contract as this was clearly set out in 
the agreement. Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable to expect Lex Autolease to have 
gone through all the terms and conditions with Mr S.
Our investigator also said it wasnt in this services remit to ask businesses to make gestures 
of goodwill or take action that would be perceived as good customer service.
Mr S disagreed with the view of our investigator and the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr S says it wasnt fair for Lex Autolease to hide behind the agreements terms and 
conditions and it was common sense that had he known he could alter the agreements 
mileage and thereby reduce his monthly payments he would have done so earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S is very disappointed about Lex Autoleases decision not to backdate the 
reduction in the mileage allowance set in the car hire agreement and reimburse him the 
difference in the monthly payments from February 2020. I also understand that he is 
disappointed by the view taken by our investigator but as she has explained in order for me 
to ask Lex Autolease to put something right for a consumer, I would need to be satisfied it 
had done something wrong.
Here, looking at the copy of the hire agreement signed by Mr S I can that on the first page of 
the agreement, directly under the box that sets out the rental amounts, it states; The 
Monthly Rentals as set out above may vary if:  you request a variation to the Contract 
Mileage Allowance shown on page 2 of this agreement and/or the Minimum Period shown 
above, as set out in clause 2(g) of the Terms; 
And looking at the positioning of this information I dont think I can reasonably say that the 
ability to alter the terms about the mileage and duration of the agreement were hidden. I also 
think its fair to say that I would have expected Mr S to have read over the agreement before 
signing it to check he was happy to abide by its terms and conditions. I think its clear that it 
was for Mr S to manage this agreement regarding its duration and mileage.
Mr S is disappointed that Lex Autolease wasnt more proactive in informing him that he could 
have altered the agreement. But I dont think I can fairly criticise Lex Autolease for not 
checking whether its customers were aware of the terms and conditions of their hire 
agreements even though the pandemic may have meant the usage of vehicles had changed. 
I dont think I can reasonably say that due to Covid Lex Autolease had an obligation to 
actively ensure any hire agreements were appropriately altered. And although I dont know 
whether Lex Autolease was directly affected, Im aware Covid did have an impact on 
businesses resources. So, I dont think I can reasonably say Lex Autolease acted unfairly 
when it didnt make contact with Mr S regarding the possible need to alter the mileage limit in 
his agreement.
Ive seen that when Mr S contacted Lex Autolease about terminating his agreement early, it 
went through his options including altering the mileage limit. This meant Mr S avoided having 
to pay termination charges. I think Lex Autolease acted fairly in handling Mr S query about 
what he could do regarding his hire agreement and his reduced need for the car.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that it would be good customer service for Lex Autolease to 
have reimbursed him the difference between his monthly payments following the alteration of 
the mileage allowance in recognition that had he known he could change the agreement he 
would have done so earlier. But Lex Autolease had given Mr S this information when hed 
entered into the agreement and, as I dont think Lex Autolease acted unfairly, it isnt 
appropriate or within my role to address issues of good customer service. That is something 
for businesses to consider using their discretion. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think Lex Autolease has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in dealing with Mr Ss request to vary his hire agreement and not backdating the reduction in the mileage allowance. And although I know this will be of disappointment to him, Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman