DRN-3933592
The complaint
Ms K complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s handling of a claim 
on her home insurance.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy (the insurer). Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of RSAs contractor. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its contractor, 
any reference to RSA in my decision includes the actions of the contractor. 
What happened
Ms K had an RSA home insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In August 2021, 
an escape of water from a neighbours property caused a serious flood in her home. She 
made a claim to RSA under her insurance. RSA appointed a contractor who began repairs in 
late August 2021.
As part of the repairs, the contractor removed Ms Ks bathroom floor. This caused two major 
problems:
1. This work exposed a drain cover, leading to a vermin infestation. 
2. The work also damaged a gas pipe, causing a gas leak. This lasted several weeks 
before it was discovered and repaired. 
This had serious consequences for Ms K. She said, in summary:
She had to move into a hotel at night due to the infestation. She returned home each 
day to work.
The bed in her hotel room caused her severe back pain, forcing her to move back 
home before the infestation was resolved.
The gas leak put her life in danger.
She was forced to move into a hotel once again, worsening her back pain.
She was signed off work in November and December 2021, resulting in a significant 
loss of salary.
RSA closed her claim in December 2021, before things had been put right.
All this seriously damaged Ms Ks physical and mental health.
During this time, RSA covered Ms Ks hotel costs. It also upheld parts of her complaint. It 
said it didnt have evidence that its contractor was responsible for the gas leak but agreed to 
cover the cost of repairing this. It also paid Ms K £350 to apologise for its contractors 
failures. In total this came to £1,960. However, RSA said it wouldnt cover Ms Ks loss of 
earnings or compensate her for the physical pain she suffered following her hotel stay.
Ms K was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She didnt think the 
refund of her costs (the gas repairs) should be considered part of the overall compensation 
package. And she didnt think £350 adequately compensated her for the life-threatening 
situation she was put in, or the mental and physical pain she suffered throughout this 
experience.  
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
that this had been an incredibly distressing time for Ms K and was satisfied that both the gas 
leak and vermin infestation were most likely caused by RSAs contractor. She also 
recognised that the gas leak could have been catastrophic. She recommended that RSA pay 
Ms K an additional £750 to reflect the distress, upset, and serious disruption its contractors 
caused Ms K.
Ms K disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, ombudsmen decisions are published so are written in a way that prevents the 
customer from being identified. The unique circumstances of Ms K are well known to both 
parties so Im not going to set them out in any more detail here. If Im vague about any of the 
circumstances here its to keep Ms K from being identified, not because Ive ignored them or 
think them irrelevant.
Second, this decision covers events to January 2022 only. This period covers the damage to 
Ms Ks home in August and October 2021 and RSAs handling of this claim. I understand 
that there was another escape of water from her neighbours flat in February 2022 which is 
the subject of a separate claim. If Ms K is unhappy with how RSA dealt with that claim, she 
can make another complaint to this service. While Id understand if Ms K finds this 
frustrating, Im unable to consider anything related to that second claim here.
Finally, Ms K has made several points about why she believes our investigators 
recommendation is inadequate. For example, she says the compensation proposed doesnt 
come close to covering her loss of salary. I assure Ms K Ive looked at everything shes said 
but I dont think I need to comment on each point to reach the right outcome. Ive focused 
instead on what I think are the key issues.
Cash settlement
RSA told us it paid Ms K £1,960 on 30 December 2021. It provided a screenshot from its 
system showing this payment. This mainly covered the cost of gas repairs but also included 
£350 to apologise for its contractors failings. So the true settlement cost for the gas repairs 
only was £1,610. 
RSA also paid Ms K £162 in October 2021 for local pest control to visit Ms Ks home and 
resolve the infestation. Correspondence between the parties also shows that RSA covered 
Ms Ks accommodation costs for the period where she was forced to move into a hotel.
Ive reviewed the invoices and other correspondence provided by both RSA and Ms K. 
Having done so, Im satisfied RSAs payments cover the gas repairs and pest control costs. 
Compensation for distress
That leaves the issue of redress for the distress Ms K suffered because of RSAs 
contractors work. This is the main element of Ms Ks complaint. She told us RSA was 
negligent and as a result of their negligence, I have suffered physically, mentally and 
economically.First, I think its worth highlighting something that was evident to me from reading almost 200 
pages of correspondence between Ms K and RSA. An internal note by RSAs claims handler 
on 21 October 2021 described Ms K as very reasonable throughout the process and has 
been helpful and understanding. I agree. I think Ms K was incredibly patient during a 
horrendous time. I also think the two RSA claims handlers who dealt with Ms K to January 
2022 were kind and sympathetic to Ms K and recognised her distress. They responded 
promptly to her emails, kept her up-to-date with progress, and pushed its contractor for 
action. Overall, I think these two claims handlers were incredibly professional and its clear 
from Ms Ks emails during this time that she appreciated their work.
Having said that, Im persuaded that RSAs contractor was most likely responsible for both 
the infestation and the gas leak. Ms Ks evidence about the condition of her bathroom before 
and after they removed the floor (including photos of the exposed drain) is compelling, and 
the gas engineers invoice says: It looks like this may have been caused by taking up the 
floor due to the [water] leak. RSA is responsible for its contractors actions, so I think its 
right that RSA compensate Ms K for this. 
Ms K was signed off work by her doctor in November 2021 and then again in December 
2021. Shed like RSA to compensate her for lost earnings. However, I dont think that would 
be fair.
Ms K reported the infestation to RSA on 6 October 2021. RSA acknowledged this the same 
day and emailed Ms Ks local council on 8 October to confirm it would cover the cost of 
removal. I think this was a good example of prompt action by the claims handler. While pest 
control couldnt attend Ms Ks home until 18 October, this was outside RSAs control. 
Similarly, Ms K notified RSA about a gas smell on 12 October 2021. It agreed to cover the 
cost of an inspection the same day. When Ms K escalated this on 19 October  and a 
National Grid engineer attended and shut off the gas supply  RSA immediately agreed to 
cover the cost of repairs. 
So Im satisfied that RSA took swift action to fix both problems. I also think Ms Ks 
correspondence shows that a significant amount of her distress was due to the ongoing 
impact of the flooding from her neighbours property and her neighbours failure to resolve 
this. I dont think RSA can be held liable for this.
I also agree with RSA that Ms K first said shed reinjured her back in an email on 8 October 
2021, several days before she first moved into the hotel. While Ive no doubt the pain got 
worse while she was at the hotel  and, again, the email correspondence shows this  I dont 
think I can reasonably hold RSA liable for her injury.
For the reasons above, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask RSA to compensate Ms K 
for her loss of salary while she was signed off work in November/December 2021 or her 
physical pain.
I do agree, however, that the infestation and gas leak caused Ms K significant distress at an 
already stressful time. While RSA took quick action to fix them, these problems shouldnt 
have happened in the first place. I also agree with Ms K that RSAs email to her on 13 
December 2021 closing her complaint was unfair. RSA acknowledged that this was 
confusing, but its clear it caused Ms K additional upset.
Overall, I think RSA and its contractor caused Ms K substantial distress, upset, and worry. 
Ive considered the level of awards this service makes in similar circumstances. Having done 
so, I agree with our investigators recommendation to increase the amount RSA should pay 
Ms K by £750.I understand how distressing this experience has been for Ms K. She has my sincere 
sympathies and best wishes. I also know that shell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think the £1,110 total compensation proposed by our 
investigator  RSAs original £350 plus an extra £750  is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and order Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Ms K £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman