DRN-2509622
The complaint
Miss K complains Match The Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv unfairly brought 
about two unaffordable guarantor loans for her.
What happened
Match The Cash brought about two loans for Miss K via its electronic lending system:
Date of loan Capital 
AmountTerm Monthly repayments
(approx.)Total repayable value
(approx.)
March 2016 £2,500 48 months £106 £5,082
November 2016 £3,500 36 months £169 £6,097
Miss K brought her complaint about unaffordability to our service in February 2020. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. He said Match The Cash hadnt 
completed reasonable and proportionate enquiries. And had it done so, he said it should 
have identified the loans werent affordable for Miss K and it shouldnt have brought them 
about.
Miss K accepted out investigators conclusions. Match The Cash disagreed. In summary, it 
said it completed reasonable and proportionate enquires and found the loans to be 
affordable. It said it had no reason to suspect some of Miss Ks transactions to a payment 
site were to gambling companies; and that Miss K hadnt made it aware of any issues during 
its calls which made the loans unaffordable. It also said it was aware Miss K had been using 
payday lenders; and some of her credit accounts were in arrangements. But it said its 
checks demonstrated the loans were affordable. 
As Match The Cash didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Match The Cash brought about  
these P2P agreements required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks or 
enquires to assess Miss Ks ability to afford the loans and repay them sustainably over their 
terms, without causing her financial difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of enquiries Match The Cash needed to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the 
credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
It isnt enough for Match The Cash to just complete proportionate enquiries  it must also 
carefully consider the information it obtains from these enquiries to go on and make a fair 
decision in bringing about the loans.
Ill deal with each loan in turn.
Loan One
Match the Cash has said it completed an income and expenditure assessment with
Miss K before arranging the loan. It also says it conducted a credit file check and obtained a 
recent bank statement covering a period of 30 days to verify the information. It also says it 
had calls with Miss K before arranging the lending and based on these checks Match The 
Cash is satisfied the loan was affordable.
Ive considered whether the enquiries Match The Cash made were reasonable enough to 
progress with Miss Ks application; and having done so Im not persuaded they were. I say 
this because although Match The Cash completed a number of checks, I consider the 
information it obtained through these enquiries suggested further steps were needed to 
make them proportionate. 
The recent and historic evidence from Miss Ks credit file shows she had problems managing 
her finances. This strongly suggests she wouldnt be able to sustainably meet the 
commitments of any further lending; and that further lending would cause her financial harm. 
The credit file Match the Cash obtained shows a high level of debt that had significantly 
increased within a relatively short and recent period of time. Miss K had opened 13 credit 
accounts within the 12 months leading up to this loan. These were largely unsecured loans 
and advances against her income; and she had an active total balance of around £18,000 at 
the time of this application (not including her mortgage). One of the accounts with a value of 
£3,000 was taken just one month before this application.
The credit file also shows Miss K had three defaults registered within the most recent nine 
months totalling over £10,000; with the most recent default of £5,000 having been registered 
just one month before this application.
Miss K was also behind with her payments on five of her other credit accounts  some of 
which appear to have been in a delinquent position for over six months. And at least one 
account appears to be in an arrangement. 
So, while Match The Cash says it completed proportionate enquiries; I disagree. In particular 
Im satisfied the information outlined above demonstrated that it needed to go further to 
understand Miss Ks financial situation; and in particular it needed to verify her outgoings. As 
it didnt do this, Im satisfied Match The Cashs enquiries were not proportionate in this 
instance. 
Miss K has provided this service with her bank statements covering a period of three months 
before loan one. I consider Match The Cash needed to obtain a thorough understanding of 
Miss Ks financial position through its enquiries before arranging this loan. And while it 
obtained Miss Ks bank statement covering 30 days, I dont consider this period of time 
provided it with enough information to obtain a thorough understanding of her financial 
circumstances. 
These statements show multiple transactions to a betting company totalling £2,275 in 
December 2015 and £905 in January 2016. Across February 2016 there are no direct 
transactions to betting companies  but there are a number of transactions via a payment 
site which are of a similar high frequency and high individual value. These total over £7,000 
across the month. Miss K has told us these payments were to betting companies. I think had 
Match The Cash made reasonable and proportionate enquiries it would have identified this information which it ought to have considered before coming to its decision to arrange this 
lending for Miss K. 
Across these months there are several unpaid direct debits and standing orders. And there 
are credits from individuals with references such as loan. In each month after Miss K is paid 
there are standing orders debiting her account to individuals with references such as thank 
you. I consider this strongly suggests Miss K was borrowing from family and friends on top 
of other lenders.
I consider all of this information suggests Miss K wasnt able to sustainably meet her existing 
commitments. She had recent defaults and delinquent accounts and was having to borrow 
money from a number of lenders and what appears to be family and friends. This places 
considerable doubt on the disposable income figure of approximately £570 that Match The 
Cash calculated Miss K had as part of its enquiries. And as the purpose of this loan is 
documented as home improvements, Match The Cash was aware that it would be further 
adding to Miss Ks total indebtedness and monthly credit commitments.
Im persuaded its clear from this information that Miss Ks historic and recent problems 
managing her money were enough to demonstrate to Match The Cash that further lending 
wouldnt be sustainable and would cause her financial harm. 
As such, Im satisfied Match The Cash didnt act fairly or reasonably towards Miss K when it 
brought about this loan.
Loan two
Loan two was brought about in November 2016 and some of the funds were used to settle 
loan one.
Match The Cash has said it completed the same enquiries into Miss K at loan two as it did at 
loan one. It has said its enquiries showed Miss K could sustainably afford loan two and its 
decision to arrange the lending was reasonable. 
Ive explained above why I consider Match The Cash didnt act fairly or reasonably by 
arranging loan one. And it follows, for similar reasons, that I dont agree it acted fairly or 
reasonably in relation to loan two either.
Miss Ks financial position from loan one hadnt improved  in fact it had got worse. The 
credit file Match the Cash obtained as part of its enquiries shows two further accounts had 
defaulted and her mortgage was now in arrears; as well as two other credit accounts. During 
one of its calls Match The Cash asked Miss K if she had ever defaulted on any credit to 
which she answered no. So, Match The Cash had conflicting information here but didnt 
seem to pick up on this or make further enquiries.
Miss Ks bank statements covering three months before loan two show she was still making 
large payments to a payment site (identified above as gambling transactions); and was still 
borrowing from other high cost lenders and what appears to be family and friends. Her bank 
account entered an unauthorised overdraft position on a number of occasions and theres 
further evidence of unpaid direct debits and standing orders across the three months; 
including fees and charges for this. One of these direct debits is to a debt management 
charity, indicating Miss K had sought debt advice and may be in some form of arrangement 
with her existing creditors. Loan two was further increasing Miss Ks overall indebtedness and the amount she needed 
to repay towards her credit commitments each month; and it was clear from her financial 
position that she couldnt afford this increase.
So, Im satisfied further lending wouldnt have been sustainable for Miss K and it therefore 
follows Match The Cash didnt act fairly or reasonably when bringing about loan two.
Putting things right
As Miss K has ended up paying additional interest and charges on guarantor loans brought 
about by Match the Cash failing to act fairly and reasonably; Im satisfied she has lost out 
because of what Match the Cash did wrong. As such it needs to put things right. 
In order to do so I require Match the Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv to:
Refund all interest, fees and charges from the loans and add 8% per annum simple 
interest from the date they arose to the date of settlement. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ks credit file regarding these 
loans. 
 If Match the Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss K how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that Im upholding Miss Ks complaint about 
Match The Cash Limited trading as Guarantormyloan.tv and I direct it to put things right as 
detailed above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman