DRN-2773166
The complaint
Mrs C complains that KL Law ltd gave her misleading information so that she would agree 
for it to represent her in an employment dispute.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs C paid £180 for a one hour consultation with KL Law. Mrs C wanted some 
advice to help her decide if she should take her employer to an employment tribunal.
 
Mrs C says that KL Law told her that her legal costs would be £10,000 (if the case went to a 
tribunal) while the legal costs of her employer would be much higher. She says KL Law told 
her that her employer would want to make a settlement as soon as possible because their 
costs would be £40,000 to £50,000 even if she lost her case.
Mrs C says she told KL Law that she didnt have £10,000 (plus VAT) to pay for it to 
represent her. She agreed for KL law to write and lodge her claim at the tribunal for a fee of 
£2,100. Mrs C says she only agreed to this because KL Law had persuaded her that her 
employer wouldnt be interested in taking the case to a tribunal. 
In October 2019, KL Law told Mrs C it had received particulars of response from the tribunal 
filed by her employer. KL Law emailed this to her along with a second contract for the total 
remaining amount of £9,900.
Mrs C discussed this with KL Law over the phone. She was concerned that her employer 
hadnt attempted to settle her case. She suggested KL Law had overestimated the costs her 
employer would incur if the case went to a tribunal. 
Mrs C complained to KL Law that it had misled her during the initial consultation in order to 
convince her to become a client. She didnt think KL Laws advice was in her best interests. 
She says it knew that the prospect of an early settlement offer from her employer was 
unrealistic.
There was some further communication with KL Law, but it didnt provide her with a 
response to her complaint, so she brought it to our service. Our investigator looked into    
Mrs Cs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that 
KL Law had promised Mrs Cs claim would be successful or her employers would settle 
outside of court.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view. She said she wasnt claiming KL Law promised 
her case would be settled outside of court, but that KL Law had guaranteed the opposing 
partys costs. She said KL Law abandoned her case before fulfilling the initial contact 
because it didnt deliver an analysis of response to the claim. Mrs C also commented that KL 
Law had ignored her complaint, failing to respond within the necessary timescales. So, Mrs 
Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
KL Law was required to provide Mrs C with information that was fair, clear and not 
misleading before she agreed for it to represent her.
Mrs C has sent us a copy of the agreement she says she signed in July 2019. This sets out 
the services KL Law had agreed to carry out for a fee of £1,750 plus VAT (20%). These are 
listed as:
 a) reading file of papers provided
 b) drafting particulars of claim, and preparing your ET1 form
 c) lodging your claim at the Tribunal
 d) analysing response to claim, once arrived
 e) if feasible, attempting at negotiating settlement with your employer
 f) drafting a resignation letter
We are not undertaking any other work under this agreement
The agreement goes on to say:
We can confirm, that the global fee for the entire case (provided that it would not occupy 
more than 4 days, 4 full or half a day hearings) would be £10,000 plus VAT. If our 
attendance is required on more than 4 days/occasions, we would agree a further reasonable 
fee. However, we will send you a further agreement, once we discharged our obligation 
under the instant agreement.
Im satisfied that KL Law made it clear which services were covered by the fee Mrs C had 
paid. It also gave her information about the fee it would charge for continuing to represent 
her if the case went to a tribunal. So, Im also satisfied that KL Law made Mrs C aware that 
her employer might not settle at an earlier stage and the likely cost of pursuing the matter.
Mrs Cs main concern is that KL Law overestimated the costs the other party would incur for 
defending her claim at an employment tribunal before she agreed to use its services. She 
says KL Law was trying to create an impression that the probability of an early settlement 
was very high, when in fact it was very low. 
Mrs C says that in the initial consultation, KL Law guaranteed her employers costs would be 
£40,000 to £50,000 when it wasnt in a position to do so. Shes provided translations of the 
parts of her conversation with KL Law that she feels support this.
Ive carefully considered the information Mrs C has provided. There are references to 
market rates and how much legal services costs normally. So, it would appear that KL 
Law was speculating about what the other partys costs might be. I appreciate Mrs C 
believes KL Law should have made it clear there was a possibility that the other sides costs 
might be lower than it had estimated. But Im not persuaded that it guaranteed the other 
sides costs.
Mrs C has also referred to KL Law claiming that the losing party does not pay the winning 
party costs. She says the tribunal judge has told her that she may be forced to cover the 
legal costs of the opposing party if she loses the case at tribunal. 
There is a possibility of a claimant being ordered to pay their employers costs if they lose at 
an employment tribunal. But this only happens in limited circumstances. KL Law might not 
have made it clear in the meeting that it isnt always the case that the losing party wouldnt have to pay the winning partys costs. But I dont think KL Law was wrong to suggest that the 
other party might be concerned about losing money even in the event of it winning at 
tribunal. KL Law has made reference to circumstances where Mrs C might be liable to pay 
the other partys costs in the your responsibilities section of the agreement she signed. So, 
I also think it made her aware that there was a possibility that she might be required to pay 
her employers costs if her case was unsuccessful at tribunal.
Mrs C says KL Law didnt meet its obligation of analysing response to claim, once arrived. 
But the other partys response to her claim appears to have been discussed with Mrs C in 
the telephone conversation that took place in October 2019. Based on what Ive seen, I think 
KL Law is likely to have fulfilled its obligations under the agreement.
Mrs C has also raised concerns about how KL Law has dealt with her complaint. But 
complaint handling isnt something this service is able to consider, according to the rules 
sent by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, Mrs Cs comments about this havent made a 
difference to the outcome Ive reached.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs C. But having considered everything, I 
havent found reason to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman