DRN-1580838
 
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with the service shes received from Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited (HRG) trading as Argos Financial Services, as her credit card didnt work when she 
tried to use it in a supermarket.
What happened
Mrs O attempted to purchase some items in a supermarket, but her card didnt work.
She called HRG who said the card may be damaged as there were no blocks on the 
account, and they would send Mrs O a replacement card. 
Mrs O complained to HRG about this, she also complained about the way the call handlers 
spoke to her.
Argos responded and said Mrs Os card was active with no blocks which wouldve stopped 
the transaction, so it couldnt be held responsible if the card didnt work in the supermarket. 
They also said the calls were handled professionally so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs O was unhappy with HRGs position and approached the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that HRG wasnt responsible for the card 
not working, and in his view the service provided by HRG was reasonable. 
Mrs O didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are two parts to the complaint, Mrs Os card not working, and the customer service 
she received from HRG, I will comment on these separately below.
The card not working
Mrs O tried to use her card in a supermarket, but it didnt work. She said it was a stressful 
and embarrassing situation in front of other customers. Mrs O also said it caused her 
inconvenience as she had to return home to get another card, so she could make the 
purchases.
HRG has confirmed that there werent any blocks on the account which would have stopped 
the transaction, and there were available funds in the account. So it wasnt as a result of 
anything HRG did that the card didnt work in store.There are many different reasons why Mrs Os card might not have worked in the 
supermarket, from issues with the retailers card machine, to the card being damaged. But Ill 
never know for certain exactly what stopped it. And whilst I understand how Mrs O felt when 
her card wouldnt work, Im unable to conclude HRG are responsible for it not working, or 
that they should pay compensation for this.
Customer service
Ive listened to the calls Mrs O made to HRG when her card didnt work. I dont agree the call 
handlers were unprofessional.
The agents Mrs O spoke to said that there wasnt anything wrong with the account, and 
there were funds available, so its likely the card was damaged. They said they would order 
a replacement card which would enable Mrs O to make future purchases.
Mrs O was then passed to the complaints department as she was unhappy the card didnt 
work and a replacement was needed. The next agent reiterated that as the card wasnt 
working, they would need to order a replacement. But they also said the existing card could 
be used for online purchases until the replacement arrived. They also logged the complaint 
for Mrs O.
Having listened to the calls, I dont think the call handlers were unprofessional. Whilst they 
acknowledged the inconvenience of the card not working, all they were able to do was order 
a replacement, which they did. So I dont think they acted unreasonably here.
Mrs O raised her complaint on 7 October 2019 when the card stopped working, and HRG 
issued its final response on 28 November 2019. Whilst I appreciate Mrs O is unhappy with 
this timescale, HRG had already explained that there weren't any blocks on the account 
which would have caused the card not to work in store. Mrs O was also sent a replacement 
card before this time, which enabled her to use it for purchases. 
So whilst Mrs O had to wait for the final response, she had already been told the same 
information, and been sent a replacement card in the interim. So I dont think HRG has acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman