DRN-3519244
The complaint
Mr & Mrs R are unhappy with how Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled their request for a 
chargeback following a cancelled trip.
Mr & Mrs R hold a joint account, but Mrs R has represented them both during this complaint 
and I will refer to her primarily within this decision. 
What happened
Mrs R used her Lloyds debit card to pay for a trip abroad for her and her husband. She paid 
an initial deposit of £200 in June 2019, and the outstanding balance of £3,795.95 in 
January 2020, to a travel agent Ill refer to as D. They were due to fly out of the UK on 
13 April 2020, with the return flights scheduled for 24 April 2020.
However, in March 2020 Mrs R was informed the holiday was cancelled due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Mrs R tried to contact D without much success, so she contacted 
Lloyds in mid-April 2020 to try to obtain a refund through them.
Lloyds did raise a chargeback claim for Mrs R, which was successful, and credited the joint 
account with the two transactions in August 2020. However, they credited the account again 
the following day with the same amounts. Mrs R was concerned about this as it was a large 
sum, and she decided to safeguard the money in another account. She also contacted 
Lloyds to discuss this with them.
Lloyds have accepted their communication with Mrs R wasnt as it should have been at this 
time. Mrs R made several attempts to discuss things with Lloyds but wasnt responded to. 
Lloyds told her they would be re-debiting her account, but Mrs R wasnt told when this would 
happen. Lloyds have said they sent Mr & Mrs R a letter in mid-November 2020 explaining 
the second credits would be re-debited from their account in 14 days time  however it was 
a week or so after the deadline had expired that the money was actually re-debited. And 
Mrs R said she didnt receive the letter from Lloyds. She only realised the money had been 
taken because she was keeping an eye on the account. 
As Mrs R had secured the money in another account, she was able to avoid any 
unauthorised overdraft charges and bring the joint account back into credit the same day. 
But she was unhappy with how Lloyds had dealt with the matter and raised a complaint. 
Lloyds accepted they hadnt communicated with Mrs R as they should have done and 
awarded £149. This was a payment of £125 as compensation and £24 for telephone calls 
and time taken by Mrs R trying to contact Lloyds.
Mrs R wasnt happy with Lloyds response and brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator said that what Lloyds had already awarded was fair. She accepted that Lloyds 
had made errors during their handling of the chargeback, but she felt they had adequately 
compensated Mr & Mrs R for those errors. Mrs R didnt agree with this. She was unhappy 
about what could have happened if she hadnt been so vigilant with her account  she had 
never been overdrawn before and felt embarrassment and distress at being so.
As Mr & Mrs R didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what they paid for. The 
bank can raise a dispute, known as a chargeback, with the bank which accepted the card 
payment. 
A chargeback isnt something a consumer can demand that their bank attempt, but when 
faced with a person requesting assistance with a disputed card transaction I would expect 
the bank to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. And in Mr & Mrs Rs case Lloyds did raise a chargeback and had 
success in doing so. 
As Mr & Mrs R have received all their money back, I dont need to decide about that aspect. 
Lloyds have also accepted that they didnt provide Mrs R with the service she was entitled to 
expect, so all I need to decide is if the amount of compensation Lloyds have awarded is fair. 
And in this case, Im satisfied it is. Ill explain why.
It's clear that Mrs R was anxious about receiving the credit twice  she made efforts to speak 
to Lloyds about it on numerous occasions and was told each time that it would be taken 
back. But she said she was never given any guidance on when that would be. She also 
ensured she kept the incorrectly credited amount available in a separate account and it was 
only her foresight to keep checking the account that enabled her to see that the amount had 
been re-debited in early December 2020.
Mrs Rs vigilance ensured she didnt incur any unauthorised overdraft charges, as she was 
able to bring the account back into credit the same day Lloyds re-debited it. So, while I 
understand her comments about the embarrassment potentially being in her unauthorised 
overdraft could have caused, she was able to avoid it. Because of that, Mrs R is in the 
financial position she should expect to be in, with one credit in her account and no other 
charges that need to be paid. 
Lloyds have awarded Mr & Mrs R a total of £149 for compensation and the cost of some 
phone calls Mrs R made during the dispute. It isnt in doubt that Lloyds didnt correspond 
with Mrs R as they should have done while the chargeback claim was being raised  they 
didnt respond to numerous attempts from Mrs R to speak to them for an update. But I must 
consider the circumstances being faced by Lloyds at the time. They were working through an 
unprecedented time and situation, and were faced with a much higher volume of disputes 
and customers that needed their help, whilst also trying to come to terms with the evolving 
situation with the pandemic and their own changes to working patterns and flexibility. So, 
whilst Mr & Mrs Rs dispute when on for longer than would normally be expected, Im 
satisfied Lloyds award is a reasonable one in this case. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr & Mrs R but Im not asking Lloyds to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC have already paid the amount mentioned above to settle the complaint. I 
think thats fair in the circumstances.So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC dont need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr & Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman