The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought a PPI policy when they took out a Halifax mortgage in 2006. 
The policy was sold in a meeting at a Halifax branch. It was part of a wider insurance 
package called a Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP). The PPI element of this package 
gave Mr W cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
The sale took place a long time ago. And, perhaps understandably, BoS doesnt still have 
much of the paperwork completed at the time. Mr and Mrs W dont seem to have a strong 
recollection of the sale either. So, in these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have available to me now. 
This includes how I know BoS normally sold such policies at around this time.
BoS says the optional nature of the policy would have been made clear to Mr and Mrs W. 
And I think is likely BoS would have discussed the policy with Mr and Mrs W and asked them 
some questions concerning their eligibility before obtaining their agreement to take it. BoS 
has shown us screenshots from its computer systems which record the answers that were 
given to questions BoS asked at the time about Mr Ws personal circumstances. These 
would have been to check his eligibility and suitability for the TMPP.
Ive also seen a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs W after the sale. 
This letter starts off by saying Thank you for choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP).  And I think Mr and Mrs W would have queried with BoS why theyd received 
a letter thanking them for choosing the policy if they hadnt agreed to take it or hadnt known 
that it was optional. BoS has also provided a copy of a declaration which Mr W signed when 
the mortgage was taken out. This includes a section which refers to the TMPP in terms 
DRN-1581995which would seem to suggest that the mortgage could have been taken out without taking 
the policy.
So, from what Ive seen, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs W actively decided to take the 
PPI policy knowing they had a choice. But I can understand why they might not recall this 
now. 
BoS says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W. And from what Ive seen, I think thats 
most likely to have been the case. This means that BoS had to ensure that the policy was 
suitable. I dont know all the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
 
Mr W appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
limitations and exclusions.
 
Mr W says he was eligible for generous sick pay from his employer. But this policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr W was entitled to. It could have 
covered Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage repayments for up to twelve months if Mr W 
couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And a mortgage is 
a big financial commitment, where ones home is potentially at risk if repayments 
cant be made. So I still think that Mr and Mrs W would have valued the extra security 
given to them by the policy.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable. And as the premium was paid 
monthly, Mr and Mrs W could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met their 
needs. 
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs W enough information for them to decide whether or 
not to take out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information they received could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed their mind about 
buying it. I think theyd still have thought the policy gave them useful protection at an 
affordable price.
So, whilst I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, I dont think that theyve lost 
out by anything that BoS may have done wrong when it sold them this policy.
Ive though about the reasons Mr and Mrs W have given for still thinking the PPI was mis-
sold, but this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman