DRN-4387046
The complaint
Miss P & Mr S complain that Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) declined they 
claim for damage caused by rats, under their home contents insurance policy.  
Ill refer to Miss P in my decision for ease.
What happened
Miss P contacted Highway in mid-January 2023 when she noticed rats had damaged a 
number of items in her garage. She was told her claim would be accepted and was asked to 
upload photos of the damaged items, which she did. She had some difficulty doing so due to 
the size of files that could be accepted. After uploading the photos Miss P contacted 
Highway and was told her claim wasnt covered after all. 
Miss P says this has caused her to become depressed and anxious. Shes had to borrow 
money from her mother to replace some of the damaged items. She also had to pay for a 
skip to dispose of the rat damaged goods. Miss P says she hasnt made a claim in over five 
years. And says she was admitted to hospital at the end of March and in April 2023 due to 
the stress of the ongoing claim. 
In its complaint response Highway says Miss Ps policy terms exclude any loss or damage 
caused by vermin. It apologised that its agent told her that her claim would be considered 
and sent a cheque for £200 as compensation. But it didnt change its decision to decline 
Miss Ps claim. 
Miss P thought Highway had treated her unfairly and asked our service to consider the 
matter. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says the policy terms exclude 
damage caused by vermin. This means Highway made the correct decision to decline the 
claim. She says it shouldve told Miss P this at the outset. But felt its compensation payment 
for £200 was fair. 
Miss P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss Ps policy terms, under the General Exclusions section, say:
General Exceptions
Any loss, damage or liability caused by or arising from: 
-insects, parasites, vermin, fungus or mildew
The section headed, Section 2: Contents explains that cover isnt provided for, anything 
noted in the general exclusions section.
I can see that Miss P was told her claim would be considered and she should upload images 
of the damage. This was a mistake by Highways agent. Had its agent taken greater care, he 
couldve identified the policy exclusion from the outset. Miss P wouldnt then have wasted 
her time uploading images or been under the impression her claim would be paid. 
That said I dont think Highway treated Miss P unfairly when relying on its policy terms to 
decline her claim for damage caused by vermin. This cause is clearly excluded from her 
policy cover. 
Highway didnt manage Miss Ps expectations well. This caused her distress and 
inconvenience.  
In these circumstances I think Highway should compensate Miss P for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. But I think its payment of £200 is fair. Im sorry that she has 
suffered anxiety and depression and that she was admitted to hospital. I hope she and Mr S 
are now feeling better. But having considered all the evidence and circumstances of their 
complaint, I cant reasonably ask Highway to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman