DRN-3038612
The complaint
Ms K complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) did not inform her that she would 
have to make an application to actively defer her student loans during the Covid-19  
pandemic, causing arrears to accrue on her accounts.
What happened
Ms K has three student loan accounts with Erudio opened in 1996,1997 and 1998 
respectively. 
Ms K had been deferring payments on these accounts for some years now. Each year Ms K 
completed a deferment application which Erudio considered and approved. Ms K had a 
deferment arrangement agreed in 2019 that ended on 14 February 2020. 
On 20 December 2019 Erudio sent Ms K a deferment application form, for her to fill out if 
she wanted to defer her payments again, for another twelve months. On 20 January 2020 
Ms K advised Erudio that she was waiting for her Tax returns and may be late getting the 
application back.
As it hadnt received the application, from Ms K, Erudio sent her a reminder letter, on 26 
January 2020. Ms K didnt complete a deferment application and so Erudio sent a further 
letter on 18 February 2020. This let her know the deferred period had come to an end and 
that payments would be due from 15 March 2020.
 
As Erudio didnt receive any monthly payments from Ms K, it sent her Notice of Sums in 
Arrears (NoSiA) letters in March, April and August 2020, by which time the arrears had 
accumulated to £1082.69.
Ms K says she never received any of the letters Erudio sent, apart from the one in August 
2020, and feels this is likely due to postal disruptions because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
She says she assumed that Erudio would have made allowances for this, as other financial 
businesses did, and placed her account on hold during that time.
Ms K completed a deferment application, which was approved by Erudio in September 2020, 
and backdated to June 2020, reducing the arrears to £630.80.
Ms K was unhappy with this and complained to Erudio. It didnt uphold her complaint, it said, 
while some companies chose to send out updates specifically relating to Covid-19, it had 
chosen not to take a blanket approach but to continue to manage accounts individually. It 
said all the letters had been sent to Ms Ks correct address, if she had been experiencing 
difficulties, she could have contacted it for options such as deferment or payment holidays. It 
confirmed the arrears stood at £630.80 and that Ms K could contact it to set up a payment 
plan.
Ms K remained unhappy with Erudios response and so brought her complaint to this 
service. The investigator that looked into Ms Ks complaint didnt uphold it in summary they 
said:
Although Ms K said she didnt receive any of Erudios letters he could see that they 
were all addressed correctly and was satisfied they were sent.
This was not the first time Ms K had applied for deferment and she knew the process, 
so ought to have been aware of the need to apply each year.
Although Erudio didnt provide any information that was specific to the Covid-19 
pandemic, he didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Ms K had confirmed that there were no changes in her income from 2019 and so her 
income wasnt affected by the pandemic.
Erudio was entitled to require Ms K to pay the arrears but it should let her set up an 
affordable payment plan taking into consideration her current income and 
expenditure.
Ms K disagreed with the investigators findings, Ive summarised her response below:
She had serious health concerns in 2019, which thankfully had a positive outcome 
and resulted in her being discharged by her consultant in January 2020.
She was building her business and her life when the Covid-19 pandemic hit and this 
was a lot to deal with and traumatic  she found it particularly hard as she had 
experienced a roller coaster of health in the previous five years  having multiple 
surgeries and had also been made redundant during the same period.
She has recently ended treatment for PTSD associated with medical trauma.
The business has used Covid-19 as an excuse for delays in service but the same 
courtesy has not been extended to her, so she is being unfairly penalised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Ms K that I wont be upholding her complaint, Ill explain.
Ms K has told us that she has been deferring her loan accounts with Erudio for a number of 
years and as such, I believe its reasonable to assume that she understands the process and 
what she has to do to apply for the deferment. 
I fully understand that Ms K has been through a very stressful time with her health in the five 
years prior to her complaint; and am pleased that her outcome is a positive one. Ms K has 
provided evidence to show that her most recent treatment was concluded in 2016. And she 
had some further tests carried out on 2 January 2020, which resulted in her specialist 
recommending she be discharged the same day. Given this, I dont agree her health 
concerns would have prevented her from completing an application for deferment in 
February 2020, as it hasnt done so in previous years.
Ms K says she never received any of the letters Erudio sent, but it has provided evidence 
that the letters were sent as well as copies of them. I can see that they were correctly 
addressed to Ms K at the address Erudio held for her. This is the same address that is on 
the letter she has provided to us that was sent by the hospital on 30 January 2020, so Im 
satisfied they were sent to the correct address. Ms K has said its possible she didnt receive the letters due to postal disruption caused by 
the Covid-19 pandemic. While that is possible for the later letters, I dont find it likely for the 
letters sent to her in January and February as this was before the covid-19 pandemic was 
declared, and before any restrictions had been put in place. But even if Ms K didnt receive 
any of the letters, I cant fairly hold Erudio responsible for failings in the postal service. Nor 
would it be fair for me to hold it responsible for Ms Ks assumption that Erudio would 
automatically place all accounts on hold because of the Covid-19 pandemic, as this wasnt 
based on any communication, she had had with it.
Notwithstanding, I have seen contact notes that show Ms K was in contact with Erudio on 20 
January 2020, which is after her discharge from the hospital, explaining that she was waiting 
for her tax returns. So, on balance Im satisfied she was aware at this point of her 
responsibility to complete an application for deferment, and able to be in contact with Erudio 
about this.
Ms K has said Erudio is using the Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse for delays in service, but 
she is not being allowed the same courtesy, and so she is being unfairly penalised. But I 
have to tell her I dont agree, Ms K has told us that her income was unaffected by the Covid-
19 pandemic and although she has said she found it stressful she hasnt said this is what 
prevented her from completing her application. She has been clear she didnt do it because 
she assumed she didnt need to. I cant see that Erudio caused any delays when she did 
contact it, as it processed her application within a few days.
Given the above I cant say Erudio has been unfair in its actions and wont be asking it to do 
anything different here. Ms K should now work with Erudio to make an arrangement to pay 
the arrears that have accrued on the account.
I know Ms K will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Erudio can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman