DRN-2929539
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly recorded a late payment on 
his credit file in July 2017.
What happened
Mr W holds an account with Santander. He took out a debt relief order in July 2017, which 
included the debt he had with regards to his Santander account. Mr W says he contacted the 
bank by phone at around that time and also visited them in branch, where he says he was 
told that the debt relief order and suspension of collecting the debt wouldnt have an adverse 
impact on his credit file. 
Mr W was unhappy to find that Santander had in fact recorded a missed payment on his 
credit file, despite the assurances he says he was given that this wouldnt happen. 
Santander said they had no record of any such conversation with Mr W, either over the 
phone or in branch, and said that the late payment marker and default had been correctly 
applied.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
substantiate Mr Ws claims that no adverse information would be reported, so he didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly. Mr W disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
I appreciate that Mr W recalls having conversations with Santander, where he says he was 
assured that no adverse information would be recorded against his credit file following the 
debt relief order. However, Santander have said that they no longer hold any call recordings 
from 2017  which isnt surprising considering the amount of time that has since passed. So 
there is no record of any such telephone call having taken place. They have also provided 
their system notes from July 2017 when the debt relief order was put in place, but there is 
similarly nothing to suggest any guarantees were given by Santander in the way described 
by Mr W. 
I accept its entirely possible that Mr W did have conversations with the bank regarding his 
debt relief order and what this meant for his credit file. But Im afraid there isnt sufficient 
evidence to corroborate his version of events. Santander have said that the information 
reported concerns a missed overdraft payment in April 2017, that went into arrears in June 
2017, and defaulted a month later in July 2017. So Im not persuaded that Santander has 
acted unfairly here by reporting this information to Mr Ws credit reference agencies, as this 
is what they are obliged to do. 
Santander have also said that they wouldve sent a written confirmation of Mr Ws debt relief 
order after they received notification of it on 20 July 2017. They havent been able to provide 
an exact copy of the letter sent to Mr W at that time, but theyve provided a template of the 
standard letter that is sent, which explains that the credit reference agencies would need to 
be informed, with any defaults still being registered for six years. I appreciate that Santander 
cannot evidence that this letter was sent to Mr W, but it lends further support to the banks 
position that they wouldnt have given Mr W any assurances that they would not report 
anything to the credit referencing agencies. 
I also note that Santander sent a letter to the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB  who were 
assisting with Mr Ws debt relief order) which confirmed that the bank would be temporarily 
suspending collections, but that details of the debt would still be submitted to the credit 
referencing agencies. So, given this is what Santander told the CAB at the time, it doesnt 
seem likely that they wouldve told Mr W the complete opposite. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, who understandably feels strongly 
about his complaint. But Im afraid there just isnt enough evidence to substantiate his 
claims. And given that Santander are obliged to report accurate information to the credit 
referencing agencies, Im not persuaded theyve done anything wrong in these 
circumstances. So, I will not be directing them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman