DRN-3126610
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide him with an interest rebate following 
the early settlement of a loan.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan with HSBC in November 2012 for £20,000, repayable over eight years. 
The repayments were £357.12 each month, with the exception of the first repayment in 
January 2013, which was £357.27.
In January 2020, a year before the end of the term, Mr W settled his loan early. He thought 
that settling his loan early would entitle him to an interest rebate  a figure hed calculated as 
being around £1,600. However, he was disappointed to find this wasnt the case, despite 
being told otherwise by HSBCs advisers. Unhappy with matters, Mr W complained to HSBC.
HSBC reviewed matters. It said Mr W wasnt entitled to an interest rebate as all the interest 
had already been paid at the point Mr W chose to settle the loan. It said that whilst it couldnt 
divulge the exact formula used to calculate this, it was satisfied that the calculations it had 
used were correct. HSBC did acknowledge that Mr W may have been given incorrect 
information by its advisers previously, alongside some other customer service issues. So, it 
paid Mr W £150 compensation for the upset this caused.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He also provided his 
own calculations, which he said showed he was owed £1,600. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters and didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint was upheld. He thought 
HSBCs calculations seemed to be accurate and there was no interest rebate to be paid to 
Mr W. He also thought the £150 compensation HSBC paid was enough to recognise the 
impact of the customer service issues.
HSBC didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr W did and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote 
to the parties on 19 October 2021 with my provisional decision, explaining why I was 
intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Both parties responded to the provisional decision. 
Neither party was wholly satisfied with the provisional decision, but both said they would 
accept what I was proposing to bring matters to a close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below.
HSBC says Mr W wouldve been provided with a loan agreement and the account terms and 
conditions at the point of sale. However, it hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of 
Mr Ws loan agreement. Due to the length of time that has passed, I dont consider this 
unreasonable. HSBC has provided terms and conditions which include information about the 
cost of the loan. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr W wouldve been 
provided with similar information when he took out the loan.
In summary, Mr Ws loan repayments were for a fixed amount of £357.12, with the exception 
of the first repayment which was £357.27. Whilst each repayment amount, from the second 
month of the term to the end of the term, was the same, more of the repayments in the 
earlier stages of the term were weighted towards paying off the interest. This is because the 
interest is calculated as a percentage of the outstanding balance, which will understandably 
be higher at the start of the loan term. This isnt unusual, and is commonly how loan 
repayments are structured. And, having reviewed the terms HSBC provided, I think its more 
likely than not that this wouldve been made clear at the time Mr W took out the loan.
As the term of the loan progressed and the balance of the loan began to reduce, more of 
each monthly payment became weighted towards paying off the capital balance, as the 
proportion of interest became much smaller. Therefore, Im not persuaded that the 
calculations Mr W provided are accurate, as they demonstrate that the monthly repayment 
amounts were made up of the same proportions of capital and interest throughout the term 
of the loan.
Mr W repaid his loan a year before the end of the loan term. So, even with the above 
considerations in mind, I would still expect there to be at least a nominal amount of interest 
due in the latter months of the loan term  particularly as there was still a whole year left of 
the term when Mr W chose to settle the account. However, HSBC said all the interest had 
been repaid by September 2019, some 16 months before the end of the loan term, meaning 
Mr W received no interest rebate.
I consider that HSBC hasnt adequately explained why there was no interest remaining in the 
last 16 months of the loan term. It also hasnt provided a clear explanation about how it 
calculated that Mr W would need to pay £4,285.44 at the point he settled his loan early. This 
is after this service pointed out that this settlement figure meant Mr W would pay the same 
amount when settling the account a year early, as he would have been expected to pay had 
the loan run to the full term. It follows that Im not persuaded  based on the information 
presented to me  HSBCs calculations are accurate either. 
Its important to note that this service doesnt provide an auditing service. However, HSBC 
hasnt been able to clearly explain why no interest remained when Mr W chose to settle the 
account. So, in the circumstances, I considered it appropriate to use an online actuarial 
settlement calculator for further clarity on the matter. Having input the details of the loan, it 
suggested that Mr W ought to have been charged £4,051.32 to settle his loan early, rather 
than the £4,285.44 that HSBC charged him. 
So, in the absence of clearer information about how HSBC reached the figures it did, Im 
more persuaded by the information Ive seen here. It follows that I uphold this complaint and 
require HSBC to pay Mr W the difference between the amount he was charged to settle his 
account (£4,285.44) and the amount he likely shouldve been charged (£4,051.32) plus 
simple interest at 8% per year from the date Mr W settled the loan account to the date the 
difference is paid to Mr W.
Its unfortunate that HSBC hasnt been able to give us a clear explanation about why no 
interest remained in the last 16 months of the loan term, or how it reached the settlement 
figure Mr W was charged. As a result, this case has been ongoing for some time and Mr W 
has become understandably frustrated about the length of time it has taken for matters to be 
reviewed. Mr W has also gone to the trouble of producing his own calculations in the hope of 
resolving matters.I recognise HSBC already paid Mr W £150 compensation to acknowledge the impact of the 
conflicting information he was given about how interest rebates are calculated. But I consider 
that Mr W has been caused further inconvenience since, for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
So, I consider it appropriate that HSBC pays Mr W an additional £100 compensation to 
recognise the further impact this matter has had on him.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle this 
complaint in the following way:
Pay Mr W £234.12  the difference between the £4,285.44 he was charged to settle 
his account early and the £4,051.32 he likely shouldve been charged  plus simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date he settled the account to the date of settlement; 
and
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter has 
caused him. This is in addition to any compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
paid him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman