DRN-2865209
The complaint
Mrs D complains that, in 2006, Ulster Bank Ltd mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Mrs D had had a bank account with Ulster Bank since 1992. This was at first a fee-free 
current account. But in 2006 Mrs D agreed to upgrade her account to a U First Gold 
account. This was a PBA costing £11 per month. 
The PBA came with a number of benefits including:
Annual worldwide family travel insurance
Various banking benefits, including discounts
Extended warranties
Travel and entertainment booking service with discounts
Through her representative, who is a close relative, Mrs D says that she only remembers 
being told she would get free insurance with the new account. She says that she didnt travel 
much and also that shed been diagnosed with a serious illness in about 1992 and continued 
to take medication for this in 2006. She says this would have made making a claim for travel 
insurance difficult. She says that neither this limitation in the travel insurance, nor the other 
benefits of the account, were explained. She says she didnt receive any documents about 
the PBA  she says she has kept all her records. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs D didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mrs D says that she doesnt remember much about when the PBA was sold to her. But 
she says she does remember being told she would get free travel insurance. However, 
her representative says the travel insurance would have been of little use to Mrs D, as she 
had suffered a serious medical condition in 1994 and was still taking medication for it. 
Ive considered these points, and also generally looked at whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
If a person or organisation is accused of doing something wrong, there needs to be 
reasonable evidence to show it probably happened. Its a longstanding principal of 
fairness that someone doesnt have to prove they are innocent. And the problem is that 
there isnt strong enough evidence for me to say this PBA was mis-sold. 
A significant problem is that this all happened about 15 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember everything that happened so long ago. So it may 
not be fair for me to rely just on what they remember. And there arent now records of 
what happened, and what might have been said at the time. 
I dont think Ulster recommended the PBA, in the sense of telling Mrs D it had carried 
out an assessment of her circumstances and was saying that the PBA was a good fit for 
her needs. But Ulster did still need to give Mrs D information that was fair, clear and not 
misleading  so that she could make her own informed decision about whether the cost of 
the PBA was worthwhile for her. As this all happened so long ago, and theres not much 
documentary evidence, I cant be sure that it did do this. 
But I also cant fairly say that full information would probably have changed Mrs Ds mind 
about taking the PBA.  Its true that, if Mrs D had needed to make a claim for a reason 
connected to her medical condition, it probably wouldnt have been paid. I dont know if 
this was clear to her at the time. But even if it wasnt, Mrs D would still have benefited 
from cover for claims related to other illnesses, and for all the other cover that travel 
insurance can give such as for theft of belongs, cancellations and delays. And there were 
the other benefits of the PBA, although it does seem it was probably the travel insurance 
that was the main attraction. So, even with full information, the PBA could have seemed 
potentially useful. 
Overall, I dont have enough evidence to say Mrs D didnt give informed consent when 
starting the PBA. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman