DRN-3933797
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from AJ Bell Asset Management Limited 
trading as AJ Bell Investments which he says has caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
What happened
In early 2022, Mr L decided to transfer his occupational defined benefit pension scheme (DB 
scheme) to a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP). The transfer itself was carried out 
by an independent financial adviser (E) authorised to conduct pension transfer business. 
E then opened an account with AJ Bell, as administrator of Mr Ls SIPP, in early April 2022. 
AJ Bell operated an investcentre platform which was adviser-led. This meant that Mr L, as 
the customer, granted E full authority over his account. This, in turn, meant that AJ Bell only 
took instructions from E regarding any trades on the account. 
The transfer took place in early June 2022 and at 9.15am on 6 June 2022 E placed some 
trades with AJ Bell. At 10am on the same day Mr L telephoned AJ Bell to inform it that he 
wished to change the investment strategy for his portfolio and that he intended to appoint a 
new independent financial adviser (IFA) to oversee his SIPP. He also told AJ Bell that if 
E had already requested any trades on his account then he wanted to have them stopped. 
AJ Bell told Mr L that it didnt think any trades had yet taken place on his account and it 
asked him to email its Adviser Servicing Team to halt any imminent trades and to provide a 
letter of authority appointing his new IFA. Mr L sent the email the same day.
On 8 June 2022 AJ Bell updated its system to reflect Mr Ls change of IFA. 
On 22 June 2022 Mr L complained to AJ Bell. He said:
Despite his phone call of 6 June 2022, E had placed some trades on his account that 
same day which had caused him a financial loss of approximately £14,000.
He had received no welcome pack from AJ Bell. He had been able to access this via 
AJ Bells online portal at a later date but if he had received it when the account was 
opened in early April then he would have had the opportunity, before 6 June 2022, to 
discuss his account with it. Since 6 June 2022 however, he had been unable to 
locate the documents through the portal. 
The address on his account was incorrect which he suspected was the reason for the 
missing correspondence. 
AJ Bell looked into Mr Ls complaint and telephoned him to discuss it. It said that he may 
well have been unable to view the documents due to the browser he was using; it 
recommended a particular browser was used for optimum accessibility. AJ Bell said that 
Mr Ls account had indeed been opened using an incorrect address which may well explain 
why hed not received the welcome pack. 
In respect of the trades that took place, AJ Bell apologised that Mr L had been told when he 
called on 6 June 2022 that no trades had been placed. But, it said, even if he had contacted 
it in good time before the trades were placed it would not have been able to take his 
instructions in any event. It said this was because its platform was adviser-led and it was 
E that had full authority over the account. AJ Bell offered Mr L £150 on an ex-gratia basis 
which he declined. 
Over the next few days Mr L emailed AJ Bell again on a couple of occasions. He conceded 
that, despite receiving incorrect information in the phone call of 6 June 2022, the trades 
could not have been stopped. He also explained that he had been in talks with his IFA about 
his investment choices prior to the phone call of 6 June 2022 and it had told him that no 
changes could be made to them until the DB transfer had been completed (which was 
ongoing at that point). Mr L said that consequently he was waiting to receive 
correspondence from AJ Bell which would then have prompted him to contact it about his 
investment choices. 
Mr L told AJ Bell that it had always been his intention for his SIPP to be operated by an IFA. 
He also said that if he had received the welcome pack he would have been able to speak to 
AJ Bell about changing his investment strategy, and his adviser, before the investments 
were locked in but due to maladministration by AJ Bell the opportunity to do so never arose. 
Mr L said his main aim was to get his transferred pension invested in accordance with what 
his new IFA advised and that he made the changes to his investment choices as soon as he 
could after the transfer was completed. Unfortunately, Mr L said, this had not been quick 
enough to avoid suffering a financial loss. 
AJ Bell issued its final response to Mr Ls complaint on 4 July 2022. It repeated the response 
it had already provided to Mr L but also said that, in any event, Mr Ls IFA had placed the 
trades some 45 minutes before his phone call. So, it said, even if it had provided Mr L with 
the correct information during the call, this wouldnt have led to a different outcome as it 
wouldnt have been able to cancel the trades in any event. Consequently, AJ Bell said the 
incorrect information it had given Mr L hadnt caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
AJ Bell said that when Mr Ls account had been opened by E in early April 2022 it was E that 
had been responsible for ensuring the address was correct. AJ Bell admitted however that 
when it realised the address was incorrect it amended it but unfortunately not fully (the 
house number and postcode were correct but the house name was slightly incorrect). So it 
accepted that the incorrect address was a contributory factor in Mr L not receiving the 
welcome pack. But it said, even had the welcome pack been received, it contained no 
information about making trades. AJ Bell noted too that E had told Mr L that no changes 
could be made to his investment strategy before the transfer completed in any event. And 
AJ Bell said that it couldnt be responsible for information Mr L had been given by E. For not 
fully amending Mr Ls address AJ Bell offered to increase its ex-gratia offer to Mr L to £200.
Unhappy with the outcome of AJ Bells investigation into his complaint, Mr L complained to 
this service. Mr L said, in addition to the complaint he had already made to AJ Bell, that 
because he never received the welcome letter (dated early April 2022) he didnt know about 
the portal or how to log on to it. He also said his main frustration was with the fact that he 
had been unable to stop the investment transaction and that hed suffered a financial loss as 
a result.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
agreed that AJ Bells service fell short of what Mr L could have expected but thought that its 
offer of £200 in acknowledgement was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And our 
Investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr L would have acted any differently even if he had 
received the welcome pack on time. So our Investigator wasnt persuaded that any financial 
loss Mr L had suffered was the fault of AJ Bell. 
Mr L disagreed with our Investigators findings. In response he said: There was no realistic mechanism by which he could have made reasonable 
changes to his SIPP.
He had no idea that AJ Bell had been appointed until the transfer was about to be 
made at which point he made contact;
That our Investigators comment that he wouldnt have acted any differently was 
worrying.
There was evidence that AJ Bell knew his address was wrong because the welcome 
letter was addressed to the correct house number although the house name was 
slightly wrong. The application summary however, included the wrong house 
number (his next-door neighbours) and same (incorrect) house name. So, Mr L said 
it was clear AJ Bell held two different addresses for him. He said that, consequently it 
cant be said to be someone elses fault for not correcting the address. 
Our Investigator thought about what Mr L had said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
He said that Mr L could have contacted AJ Bell at any point between April and June 2022 
however, Mr Ls IFA had told him that it was unwise to make any changes before the transfer 
completed. Our Investigator also said that he understood Mr Ls frustration around what had 
happened but thought AJ Bells steps to rectify the problems had been fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr L still disagreed with our Investigator. He said the main contention was, had he received 
the welcome pack he would have contacted AJ Bell to change the investment strategy 
before the initial investments were made on 6 June 2022. He said he hadnt contacted it 
earlier because he had no contact reference for anyone at AJ Bell and didnt feel he could 
contact it without one. Mr L also said that even with the incorrect address he would have 
expected the welcome letter to have reached him but it didnt and that was the fault of 
AJ Bell who held two different addresses for him on file, something it should have noticed. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment I know that this will cause Mr L, I dont think his complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
If matters had proceeded as they should, E would have input Mr Ls address correctly when 
applying for the account with AJ Bell. AJ Bell would then have had the correct address on file 
to use when sending Mr L its welcome letter on 14 April 2022. And Mr L would have received 
the letter, containing its reference details, shortly after. 
Mr L has said that had he received his welcome letter (and reference) in April 2022 he could 
have contacted AJ Bell sooner to change the investment strategy on his SIPP. 
For AJ Bells part, this was an account that was only ever operated on an adviser-led basis. 
It required its customers to assign full authority to make investment choices to their selected 
IFA. That was and is the case regardless of when, or if, a welcome letter is received. 
So if everything had gone smoothly, Mr L says he would have contacted AJ Bell sooner. I 
have no reason to doubt that to be the case. But I have then to consider what would have 
happened in those circumstances. If Mr L had, at some point between 14 April and 6 June 
2022, contacted AJ Bell (having received his welcome letter) and requested a change to the investment strategy (a strategy that, its reasonable to assume, he had agreed with his IFA 
and which was formed part of his application to transfer his DB scheme to his SIPP), AJ Bell 
would not have been able to accept his instructions. Thats because the account was 
adviser-led and any investment strategy instructions would have needed to have come from 
his IFA. So I cant agree with Mr L that he would have been able to change or stop the 
investment strategy on the account either before, or after, the transfer took place. Only his 
IFA could do that for him. 
Mr L has also said that there was no realistic mechanism by which he could make changes 
to his SIPP. But one did exist in the form of his IFA which he needed to contact with his 
investment strategy instructions. Where a customer has assigned authority to an IFA to 
make investment decisions on their behalf in relation to an adviser led platform, it is the 
customers responsibility to make sure their wishes are conveyed to the IFA so that they can 
be acted on. 
Unfortunately, I dont have much information about what was happening between Mr L and 
his IFA. I know that at some point after the transfer was put in motion that Mr L wanted to 
change IFA and that he felt more aligned with his new IFAs investment strategy. And I know 
his original IFA cautioned him against making any changes whilst the transfer was 
proceeding. But none of that is attributable to AJ Bell. It can, and does, only act on the 
instructions it receives from advisers.
And it is worth noting that even had Mr L received the letter on time, Im not persuaded that 
he would have contacted AJ Bell any sooner than he did. Thats because hes said he was 
advised by E that it was unwise to make any changes to his investment strategy before the 
transfer completed. And I understand from what Mr L has said that the transfer completed in 
early June. 
Mr L also said in response to our Investigators view that he hadnt contacted AJ Bell before 
6 June 2022 because he had no contact reference for anyone at AJ Bell and didnt feel he 
could contact it without one. Previously he said he had no idea that AJ Bell had been 
appointed until the transfer was about to be made at which point he immediately made 
contact. Im not sure from these statements when Mr L became aware of AJ Bells 
appointment but I do know that AJ Bell would not, at any point, have taken instructions from 
him about his investment choices. And I also know his IFA had advised him against making 
any changes before the transfer completed on, or just before, 6 June 2022. 
I accept that Mr L had recently engaged the services of a new IFA (that he wanted to appoint 
to oversee his SIPP) and that he had obviously changed his mind about which funds he 
wanted to invest his transferred pension into. But Im not persuaded that the financial loss he 
claims to have suffered as a result of changing his investment strategy can be said to have 
been caused by any failing on AJ Bells part. Ive seen no evidence that Mr L would have 
been able to alter the course of events in any event. So I dont think that the fact Mr L failed 
to receive his welcome letter as a result of it being incorrectly addressed is the cause of the 
financial loss he is claiming. 
With regard to the other aspects of Mr Ls complaint I can see that the issue with him 
accessing his documents through AJ Bells online portal seems to have been resolved by 
him using a different browser. In terms of AJ Bell giving him incorrect information when he 
phoned it on 6 June 2022 I think that the offer of an ex-gratia payment of £150 is a fair and 
reasonable response to the inconvenience Mr L suffered as a consequence. 
With regards to the incorrect address issue, it does indeed seem E provided AJ Bell with the 
incorrect address at the outset but that AJ Bell noticed the error. On doing so it amended the 
address but failed to do so fully thereby leaving the address with a slightly incorrect house name. AJ Bell has admitted its mistake and offered Mr L an additional ex-gratia sum of £50. 
This brings the total amount of compensation it has offered Mr L to £200. 
Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes avoidable trouble and upset 
to a consumer, this service can require that it pay that consumer compensation. Here 
AJ Bells customer service fell below the standard Mr L should have received. But AJ Bell 
has acknowledged its shortcomings and offered to make an ex-gratia payment to Mr L of 
£200. I think the amount offered to Mr L by AJ Bell is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint and is in line with awards this service has made in 
complaints with similar circumstances. Indeed, if this case had passed across my desk 
without an offer of compensation having already been made, it is unlikely that I would have 
awarded any more than this. My understanding is that Mr L has yet to accept AJ Bells offer 
but that it remains available. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman