DRN-4335500
The complaint
Mr S complains about delays and problems when submitting loan applications to Nationwide 
Building Society.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In November 2022 Mr S completed an online loan application with Nationwide. Mr S has 
explained that when he submitted the application he received an error message that said 
due to technical issues it hadnt been progressed. Mr S attempted to resubmit the application 
but has told us he received the same result and wasnt able to proceed.
Mr S used Nationwides webchat function to discuss his application. The agent reset the 
system and asked Mr S to reapply. Mr S went on to contact Nationwide again via its webchat 
when he ran into the same problems. Mr S also spoke with Nationwide over the phone. 
Nationwide said the application had again been reset and asked him to recomplete it. Mr S 
went on to raise a complaint when he continued to receive the same result while attempting 
to complete his application.
Nationwide went on to amend Mr S details and the application was approved a short time 
later.
Nationwide issued a final response but didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Nationwide said there 
were no signs of technical problems at its end that stopped Mr S from completing the 
application.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They thought Nationwide had dealt 
with Mr S case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal and said 
that Nationwides claim that the gender field within its application had caused issues wasnt 
accurate. Mr S also said that it was his actions and contact with Nationwide that resulted in 
the application being fully processed and approved. As Mr S asked to appeal his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive reviewed the webchats and a copy of a call Mr S had with Nationwide. I appreciate 
Nationwide was unable to find any specific technical issues at its end that were stopping the 
application progressing. But I think Mr S makes a reasonable point when he says the 
application appeared to be having difficulties recognising his nationality and progressing.
Having listened to the call and looked at the available webchats and file notes, it appears the 
way Mr S nationality was recorded mayve caused an issue. Mr S has explained that hes 
British but holds dual citizenship. And during the call with Nationwide, Mr S explained that he 
wasnt sure what nationality hed used when he first applied for his bank account. It appears 
an agent at Nationwide ultimately amended Mr S personal information relating to his 
nationality and that his application was then successfully submitted and approved.
Where theres a lack of direct evidence to show exactly what happened, well base our 
decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred 
based on the available information. In my view, it appears that the barrier was with 
Nationwides systems or the information it held about Mr S. Ultimately, it was only after 
Nationwide stepped in an made some manual changes that the application was able to 
proceed. And I think Mr S makes a reasonable point when he says the error messages he 
received didnt refer to issues with his gender or nationality, only referring to a general issue 
with the application. So it was up to Nationwide to find the issue and help Mr S complete the 
application from that point.
Nationwide sent screen shots of its online application journey. But the application process 
appears to be from its website. Mr S has confirmed that his applications were submitted via 
his online banking facility with his personal details, including his gender and nationality, input 
by the system already on his behalf. On balance, I havent been persuaded that it was the 
way Mr S completed the application that ultimately caused the problems he experienced.
I agree with Mr S that some inconvenience was caused. Its clear Mr S was keen to progress 
his loan application and went back to Nationwide on several occasions seeking assistance. 
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr S complaint and direct 
Nationwide to pay him £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused when 
attempting to complete his loan application.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wished to make before I 
made my final decision. Mr S responded and confirmed he was willing to proceed. 
Nationwide responded and advised it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr S complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
him £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman