DRN-2432392
The complaint
D, a limited company, has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim 
under its commercial property owners insurance policy for theft.
What happened
D ran a wholesale business selling household goods online. The goods were stored on 
pallets or racking in a warehouse.
In 2015 D made a claim to AXA after a large number of items were stolen from its 
warehouse. Thieves removed part of the metal security fencing to get to the rear of the 
property. Then they broke into a neighbouring property and climbed over a wall to get to a 
narrow service corridor at the back of the warehouse. They got into the warehouse by 
breaking a back door. From the inside they opened the shutters at the front of the 
warehouse. They stole pallets of items, together with around 300 radiators and a safe with 
cash in, all taken out through the front of the warehouse over three visits in one night.
After investigating, AXA declined the claim. It said D hadnt complied with the minimum 
security requirements of the policy. One requirement was to have a lock on the inside of the 
shutter doors. It said if there had been a lock, it might have prevented the theft or meant 
fewer items had been stolen. It thought the thieves wouldnt have been able to remove the 
larger items through the back of the property.
D brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He didnt think it was fair 
to say that if the security requirements had been met, the thieves might not have been able 
to steal anything or steal fewer items.
As AXA didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was a condition precedent of Ds policy that the premises had to have the the following 
minimum standards of security:
Exit Doors
Roller shutters which are manually operated are to be secured with bullet locks or 
alternatively a locking bar and close shuttle padllock, with staple set into concrete and the 
locking bar secured to the shutter.
A condition precedent means that the policyholder has to show theyve complied with the 
condition before the insurer accepts the claim. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that roller shutters werent secured with any key-operated 
lock or padlock. Once inside the unit, the thieves only had to take out a pin that secured the 
shutters and then they were able to open them.
If AXA can show that but for this breach, the loss wouldnt have happened, it doesnt need to 
settle this claim. AXA conceded that it was difficult to say whether the thieves would have 
been able to force a lock if thered been one on the front roller shutter. It thought it would 
certainly have taken the thieves longer.
The thieves gained access to the secured industrial estate by removing sections of high 
vertical metal spiked fencing. They then drove their van over wasteland and parked it in front 
of Ds warehouse. Then from the rear of the property they forced open a door into an 
adjacent unit and from there smashed through a fire door into Ds unit. The police thought 
marks on the floor indicated that theyd used a forklift truck to load items onto the van. 
All this activity suggests to me that the thieves had come with the sort of equipment that 
meant if thered been a lock on the shutter, it wouldnt have been a significant obstacle to 
them. All in all AXA hasnt persuaded me that if the security requirement had been complied 
with, its likely the loss wouldnt have happened. I accept that it would have taken some time 
to break the lock but bearing in mind the fact that the burglary took most of the night, I dont 
think this would have made much difference overall. It follows that I think AXAs decline of 
the claim was unfair and unreasonable.
To put things right I think AXA should reconsider this claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. If as a result of this, a cash settlement is made, AXA should add 
interest at 8% from the date of the loss to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should reconsider Ds claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. If it makes a cash settlement to D it should add simple interest at 8% 
from the date of the loss to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider Ds claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and conditions. If it makes a cash settlement to D it should 
add simple interest at 8% from the date of the loss to the date of settlement.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to D, it should tell it how much its taken off. It should also 
give D a certificate showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D and D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman