DRN-4291431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C, through their representative, complain that Mortgage Express has treated 
them unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, during a period when it was no longer 
offering new mortgages. Mr and Mrs C say that because of their circumstances and the 
tighter lending rules around affordability checks, introduced as part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) review in 2014, they were unable to re-mortgage elsewhere and as such 
were considered mortgage prisoners.
What happened
In November 2003 Mr and Mrs C were offered a residential mortgage with GMAC-RFC. The 
mortgage was taken out on interest only terms over 17 years. Mr and Mrs C agreed the 
mortgage on a discounted variable interest rate of 1.00% below GMACs standard variable 
rate (SVR) until 1 January 2005  giving a rate of 4.74%. After which the mortgage would 
revert to GMACs Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for the remainder of the term of the 
mortgage  which at the time was 5.74%. 
Soon after the mortgage was taken, in early 2004, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was transferred 
to Mortgage Express  a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bradford and Bingley (B&B). 
As a result of the global financial crisis in 2008/09, B&B was nationalised in late 2008 and, 
along with Mortgage Express as its subsidiary, stopped offering new mortgage products. 
So, from this point, Mr and Mrs C were unable to apply for new fixed rate product with 
Mortgage Express as it had no alternative interest rate products to offer them. Mr and Mrs C 
say that due to their circumstances and tighter lending conditions, theyve been unable to re-
mortgage with a different lender. As such Mr and Mrs C remained on Mortgage Express 
SVR until they redeemed their mortgage in September 2022. 
Over the years between the mortgage starting in 2004 and the complaint being raised with 
Mortgage Express on 7 September 2021 there have been a number of changes to both the 
Bank of England base rate (base rate) and the SVR. The key things to note regarding the 
history of the changes is as follows:
From the mortgage start date in 2004 until 1 January 2009, all the variations made to 
the SVR were made by Mortgage Express. These changes were largely made soon 
after the changes to the base rate and largely by the same amount  maintaining a 
margin of 1.99% until 1 June 2004 and then 2.00% thereafter.
By March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 
2.00% to 4.34%. 
From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were 
made soon after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount.
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs Cs representative raised this complaint with Mortgage 
Express on their behalf. The complaint letter set out in summary:
Mortgage Express withdrew from the mortgage market in 2009 and stopped offering 
new interest rate products. Because of the tighter rules around affordability checks 
introduced as part of the FCAs review in 2014, Mr and Mrs C became mortgage 
prisoners as they were unable to move their mortgage to another lender, with no 
choice but to remain on Mortgage Express SVR.
The SVR charged by Mortgage Express since Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage reverted 
was unfairly high, especially in these circumstances where they were unable to re-
mortgage with another lender.
The way Mortgage Express margin between the SVR and the base rate increased 
over the years is unfair.
Mortgage Express discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do.
Mortgage Express actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCAs Handbook 
whereby a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. And a breach of MCOB 11.8.1 which provides that in situations where a 
customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated mortgage contract with their 
existing lender or a new mortgage lender, a lender should not take advantage of the 
customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics.
Mr and Mrs C seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what 
they deem to be a reasonable rate.
Mortgage Express responded to the complaint on 1 November 2021. In summary it said it 
did not uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Part of the complaint about events that occurred more than six years before the 
complaint was made, had been brought too late.
The SVR is not a base rate tracker mortgage. The mortgage offer states the SVR is
variable (in the given circumstances) under the mortgage terms. 
The transfer from GMAC to Mortgage Express did not affect any of the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs Mortgage. The terms and conditions set out when the 
SVR may be varied. When Mortgage Express exercised its right to vary the SVR, it 
did so in accordance with the terms and conditions.
The alleged implied term said to derive from relevant case law does not apply here. 
As the mortgage conditions relevant to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage agreement 
expressly set out the basis on which Mortgage Express can vary its SVR, it is 
therefore not necessary to imply any further terms into the mortgage agreement.
There was no express guarantee in the mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs C would be 
provided with a new mortgage in the future. Neither was there any obligation on 
GMAC or subsequently Mortgage Express to provide a new mortgage. 
If Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the interest rate being charged on their mortgageby Mortgage Express, they were free to re-mortgage elsewhere, without incurring an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) from 1 January 2005 onwards. Mortgage Express 
provides details of a comparison tool on its website to make it easy for customers to 
compare deals and switch to another lender if they wish to do so.
At all relevant times, Mortgage Express has acted as a reasonable lender and 
complied with all of its regulatory obligations, whether under the principles set out in 
the FCA Handbook, MCOB or otherwise.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative referred this complaint to our service on 24 March 2022. 
Our investigator issued his opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction and what this meant
for Mr and Mrs C. In summary, he said:
The complaint was raised on 7 September 2021, so he concluded that the complaint
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to this,
had been raised in time. Which would be from 7 September 2015 onward. So, he
was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 7 September 
2015 onward were fair and reasonable.
That under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within
three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have
become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained why
he thought Mr and Mrs C ought reasonably to have been aware of their cause for 
complaint more than three years before making their complaint. So, he didnt think 
this part of the rule gave them any more time to complain.
When considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 7 September 2015
onward, he would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period he can look at is fair.
In addition to considering the fairness of the express terms of the contract, he would 
also need to consider whether  as suggested  Mortgage Express has breached an 
implied term of the mortgage contract. He concluded both of these things were part 
of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP 
rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 7 September 2015 
onward is fair and reasonable.
In the event he recommends any redress, he would only be able to award for the
period that is in scope of this complaint  7 September 2015 onward.
Our investigator then went on to provide his opinion, not upholding the merits of
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. In summary he said:
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate. They were
made sufficiently aware of the relevant terms set out by GMAC and Mortgage 
Express has sought to charge interest in accordance with those terms.
The investigator set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr and Mrs C 
experienced because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. 
And the need to consider whether Mortgage Express had exercised the terms fairly. 
He was not persuaded Mortgage Express varied the rate unfairly.The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely occurred between 2007 
and 2009. The investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the 
wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of 
businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates.
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that Mortgage 
Express has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative said it disagreed with the investigators opinion. In summary it 
said:
It didnt agree with the conclusion reached regarding the unfair terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs Cs primary complaint is the breach of an implied term. The Investigator 
only considers the express terms of the mortgage and does not, in any event, deal 
with the compliance/non-compliance of these terms in sufficient detail for its client to 
understand the reasoning behind the decision.
Mr and Mrs C are of pension age, which has impacted their ability to secure a new 
mortgage over the years. They were, as such, by definition, mortgage prisoners for 
over a decade. 
It didnt agree with the investigators view that we can only consider events occurring 
in the six-year period before the complaint was made. Mr and Mrs C do not agree 
that them being in receipt of mortgage statements that detail the applicable rate was 
grounds on which they ought to have been aware they had cause to complain that an 
implied term of the mortgage had been breached. It was not until around 2019 that 
they became aware of the concept of being a mortgage prisoner.
Our investigator addressed these points further, but Mr and Mrs C still didnt agree with the 
outcome and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
In response, the investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they
would like the ombudsman to consider by 28 July 2023. Neither party made any further
representations.
Mr and Mrs C did not accept the investigators opinion relating to what part of the complaint 
we can and cant consider. As such, before proceeding to consider the merits of this 
complaint, I issued a decision setting out which parts of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint our 
service has the power to consider.
In summary I said that our service can only consider whether Mortgage Express has treated 
Mr and Mrs C unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage, during a period when it was 
no longer offering new mortgages  from September 2015 onwards.  Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint about events that occurred before this date had been brought too late. Ill now 
issue my decision on this part of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my decision.
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs C. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised many individual complaint points. However, 
I consider the overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr and Mrs Cs inability to access a new interest rate with Mortgage Express, which 
they say, by definition, made them mortgage prisoners.
Mr and Mrs C have paid an unfairly high rate of interest than compared to what they 
should have paid. The way in which Mortgage Express has exercised its discretion to 
set and vary its SVR is in breach of an implied term.
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Access to interest rates
As explained, our service can only consider Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about their access to 
interest rates from 7 September 2015 onwards. In the event I recommend any redress, 
I would only be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint. That said, 
when considering this part of the complaint, I think its necessary for me to set out the 
background to Mortgage Express lending structure.
Mortgage Express is whats known as a closed book lender. Its parent company B&B 
collapsed and was nationalised in 2008. Because B&B is government owned, it cant offer 
new lower interest rates that would compete with other lenders. The same applies for 
Mortgage Express as a wholly owned subsidiary of B&B. After this date and after any 
customers fixed term products ended, all B&B and Mortgage Express customers were 
charged the same SVR rate. Its part of the terms of the nationalisation that B&B (and 
Mortgage Express as its subsidiary) only offer a standard variable rate  which is 
comparable to the SVRs of other lenders. 
I have considered the representatives point that Mortgage Express has breached Principle 6 
of the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.8.1  by not offering Mr and Mrs C a new interest rate. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded it has. All of Mortgage Express customers are in the 
same position, and Mr and Mrs C arent being treated any differently to them.
It is generally expected that new interest rates are available when an old one expires
 but theres no regulatory or contractual right to a new rate. So in light of all of the above, 
I dont think Mortgage Express has done anything wrong in not offering a new rate to 
Mr and Mrs C. 
As a closed book lender, Mortgage Express should not stand in the way of customers 
moving to another lender. And it was required to issue customers a mortgage prisoner 
letter, if they were eligible for one, to help them do so.In these circumstances I dont think Mortgage Express was required to send Mr and Mrs C a 
mortgage prisoner letter  which would enable a new lender to apply a modified 
affordability assessment to their application  because they were not eligible. This was 
because they had not been arrears free for the last twelve months  at the time the FCA set 
out this requirement.
That said, in these circumstances I think it would be fair  and in line with the good practice 
offered by other lenders dealing with closed and nationalised loan books  for Mortgage 
Express to direct its customers to seek independent mortgage advice so they can explore 
whether its possible to switch their mortgage to a different lender with more preferential 
interest rates. Mortgage Express provides details of a comparison tool on its website to 
make it easy for customers to compare deals and switch to another lender if they wish to do 
so. 
So, for the reasons given I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
The fairness of the interest charged on Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage
I must consider whether from 7 September 2015 onwards, Mr and Mrs C have paid an 
unfairly high rate of interest. To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to 
first set out the relevant terms themselves:
The relevant section of mortgage offer issued to Mr and Mrs C by GMAC in November 2003 
set out that their two-year discounted interest rate would operate as follows:
Mortgage Scheme
Product Name DISC 1% 01-01-05
Type of Mortgage Interest Only
Mortgage Term 17 years, 0 months
Interest Rate (per annum) 4.74%
(variable unless otherwise stated)
Section 15 of the special conditions listed in the mortgage offer goes on to say:
The interest rate applicable to this offer of advance is our standard variable interest rate, 
which will be discounted by 1.0% until 01/01/2005. The interest rate detailed on the offer 
letter schedule has been calculated to include the 1.0% discount applicable to this offer of 
advance. 
From and including 01/01/2005 your mortgage will revert to our standard variable rate 
applicable at the time. You will be advised when changes are due to your monthly payments
The relevant supplementary offer conditions dated October 2002 go on to say:
4. Interest
Details of how we charge interest to your account are set out in the Mortgage Conditions. 
Interest may be charged in advance or in arrears according to our policy from time to time...
If you have a variable rate mortgage, the interest rate shown in the offer letter is the rate 
which applies at the date of the offer, but this may change before the mortgage is completed.
After the mortgage is completed, we will notify you of any change in the rate in accordance 
with the Mortgage Conditions which also contain details of the way in which we will notify you when we change the rate.
5. Changes to the interest rate and other charges
If you have a variable rate mortgage we may vary the interest rate by notice to you at any 
time for any of the following reasons:
(a) to reflect changes in our funding costs (actual or expected);
(b) to maintain the competitiveness of our business, taking into account changes in 
market conditions (actual or expected);
(c) to ensure that our business is operated in a prudent way; or
(d) to take account of any change in the law or regulatory practice relating to us or to 
mortgage lenders generally.
The mortgage terms and conditions set out that when the initial fixed rate expired in 2005, 
the mortgage would revert to the lenders SVR and that the SVR could be varied in line with 
terms of the mortgage. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that GMAC or 
subsequently Mortgage Express were obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have their 
SVR track the base rate. Theres also nothing in the terms and conditions that entitled 
Mr and Mrs C to a new interest rate. To that extent, the mortgage has operated as it should.
Ive considered whether the terms in Mr and Mrs Cs agreement go further than reasonably
necessary to protect GMAC (and later Mortgage Express) legitimate interests and whether 
the variation clauses are sufficiently transparent.
Mortgage Express funding was secured at B&B Group level. This consisted solely of an 
inter-company loan from B&B. Decisions as to the setting of the Mortgage Express SVR 
were made exclusively at B&B Group level. B&B has said that the primary factor in relation 
to the movement of the mortgage Express SVR during the period in question has been the 
cost of funding its mortgages. Therefore, largely relying on term 5(a) when it made variations 
to its SVR. 
Taking everything into account, I am not satisfied that the terms necessarily meet the wider 
transparency requirements. While grammatically they are easy to follow, the terms allowing 
for the SVR to be varied are broad, and the circumstances in which changes might be made 
give Mortgage Express significant discretion about when it can make changes to the SVR 
and by how much.
That said, this alone is not determinative for the case. The central issue I need to decide is
whether there has been any unfairness to Mr and Mrs C from September 2015 onwards. The 
fairness of the underlying variation clauses will not of itself properly answer that question.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent to which, the terms 
have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs C. I think that is the ultimate 
question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
When considering everything Im satisfied Mortgage Express has operated fairly and within 
the relevant terms and conditions, Ill explain why.
Has Mortgage Express exercised the terms fairly?As previously explained, changes made to Mortgage Express SVR were decided at B&B 
Group level. Throughout my decision, when referring to variations made to the SVR, for ease 
I will refer to Mortgage Express as setting the SVR.
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage since 7 September 2015, why its
necessary for me to consider historic changes to Mortgage Express SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes Mortgage Express has 
made to the SVR since Mr and Mrs C took their mortgage. Having done so, I am not 
persuaded that anything Mortgage Express has done in varying the rate has led to 
Mr and Mrs C being treated unfairly in the period I can consider. I have set out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence the 
B&B Group has been able to provide in full. Nor has our service provided copies of it to 
Mr and Mrs C. Our rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a 
description of it is disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do 
consider it appropriate to accept the information and evidence the B&B Group has provided 
in confidence, subject to the summary of it I have set out in this decision.
In 2004, when Mr and Mrs C took their mortgage with GMAC, the margin between with the 
base rate and the SVR was 1.99%. Soon after, at the time of takeover, Mortgage Express 
increased the margin to 2.00%. From that point, until 1 January 2009, all the variations 
Mortgage Express made to the SVR were made soon after the changes to the base rate and 
by the same amount  maintaining a margin of 2.00% throughout this period.
By March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 2.00% to 
4.34%. Whilst the SVR did reduce during this period, it didnt reduce by the same proportion 
as the reduction in the base rate.
Ive already set out that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was not a (lifetime) tracker mortgage, so 
Mortgage Express was not contractually obligated to set its SVR at a level that tracked the 
base rate for duration of the mortgage term. Nor is it the case that Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
had a cap preventing Mortgage Express SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin 
above base rate. So, there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited Mortgage 
Express from setting the SVR at a level whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate 
would change. But that doesnt mean that it could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. 
The term enabling Mortgage Express to vary the SVR itself has to be fair (to prevent 
businesses taking advantage of customers), and Mortgage Express had to ensure that in 
varying the SVR it only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
I consider the main variations to the SVR to have taken place in 2009. The earlier increase 
of 0.01% at the time of takeover being so marginal and of less significance than the later 
variations.
At this time in 2009, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change 
as a result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, 
including B&B and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged 
across the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of 
analysis by both the Bank of England1 and the FCA2 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce 
1 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what
determines them and why do they matter?
2 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10significantly during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as 
did their prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors that are not directly 
linked to base rate. There was a substantial risk to all lenders during this period and they all 
had to find ways to mitigate that risk while balancing the need to treat customers fairly.
The B&B Group has told us that, like many lenders at the time, B&B was predominantly 
funded by wholesale funding. The cost of which was in the most part, contractually defined 
by reference to LIBOR and LIBOR generally followed base rate prior to the financial crisis. 
As a result, changes in base rate tended to result in changes to cost of funding. Before the
financial crisis, changes in costs of its retail funding also tended to correspond to changes in
base rate. 
However, during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between LIBOR and
base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate reductions
to LIBOR or to B&Bs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale funding 
became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default  B&B 
in particular has shown how its credit rating was impacted and the implications this had on 
its ability to raise funds and the cost of its funding  including how this impacted the cost of 
the inter-company loan it sourced to Mortgage Express.  
To avoid collapse, State Aid in the form of a Working Capital Facility loan was extended to 
B&B from September 2008. With the aid came several conditions on how B&B could operate 
and obligations on how and when it should look to repay the loan. Understandably, this 
significantly impacted its commercial strategy and with it, the cost of funding mortgages like 
Mr and Mrs Cs. To add to this, B&B was nationalised in September 2008 and its entire 
share capital was transferred to HM treasury (such that B&B became a wholly owned 
subsidiary, and Mortgage Express an indirect subsidiary of HM Treasury).
So, whilst the State Aid extended to B&B also benefitted Mortgage Express, it came with 
certain obligation on B&B which also filtered through to the operation of Mortgage Express 
and as such are relevant factors when considering the impact this had on the setting of 
Mortgage Express SVR. 
Mortgage Express reduced the SVR on several occasions during this period, just not by the 
same proportion as the base rate. Given the documented increase in cost of funding across 
the industry, including the B&B Group specifically, and the obligations surrounding 
Government requirements and the Working Capital Facility loan, I am satisfied the Group 
balanced its own financial position and obligations at the time with the impact such changes 
would have on customers like Mr and Mrs Cs. 
While I note and have considered the evidence relied on by Mr and Mrs Cs representative,
I am not persuaded they outweigh the business specific evidence provided by the Group on 
the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding. In addition, as I have said above, 
I have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that leads me to a different 
conclusion from Mr and Mrs Cs representative.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest the changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR 
were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, the evidence I've seen satisfies me that 
Mortgage Express acted to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to 
treat Mr and Mrs C fairly. And, as explained, I'm further satisfied that the evidence Mortgage 
Express has provided is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time.
So to conclude, I am not persuaded that Mortgage Express operated the terms in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage. 
I dont think there is any basis to say that it somehow contributed to Mr and Mrs C being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage during the period I can consider, 
and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest they were charged during that period was 
unfair for any other reason.
From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR were made soon 
after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs Cs representative argues that Mortgage Express has 
breached what it says was an implied term, not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR 
arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For the reasons set out above, if there was 
such a duty in the present case, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express did not breach it since it 
approached the question of varying the SVR fairly and in line with the terms of the contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as such I dont expect 
Mortgage Express to take any action in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman