DRN-3985577
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the amount Haven Insurance Company Limited paid in 
settlement of a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise Mr H is unhappy with the valuation placed on his car 
following a total loss claim under his policy.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs claim should be upheld. She said Haven had reached its 
valuation using the incorrect mileage for Mr Hs car. She obtained her own valuation using 
two of the recognised motor industry trade guides our service typically relies on when 
assessing complaints about motor valuations. The average of the valuations returned was 
£8,587.50, compared to Havens valuation of £8,170, so she recommended Haven should 
increase its settlement in line with her valuation. 
Haven accepted our investigators assessment, but Mr H didnt. So, as no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr H has complained that he paid around £11,000 for his car, which is significantly 
higher than the valuation placed on his car by Haven. 
I can appreciate Mr Hs desire to be covered for the amount he purchased his car for. 
But his policy doesnt provide that level of cover. Rather, it covers him for the market 
value of his car, at the time of loss  which is fairly standard within the motor insurance 
industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
Market Value
The cost of replacing Your Car with one of similar make, model and specification, 
taking into account the age, mileage and condition of Your Car. To determine the 
Market Value, We will typically request the advice of an engineer and refer to guides 
and any other relevant sources.
Haven initially deemed the market value of Mr Hs car to be £7,300. But this was later 
increased to £8,170 and an amount of £1,375 (£8,170, less the policy excess and salvage 
value) appears to have been paid to Mr H in August 2022 as an interim payment, while he 
disputed the overall valuation. 
Haven based the increased valuation on one of the recognised industry trade guides, 
Glasss. However, our investigator highlighted that Haven had used an average mileage 
figure, rather than a more accurate figure obtainable from the most recent MOT certificate. 
Our investigator ran her own valuation using the more accurate mileage figure on Glasss 
and another of the trade guides, CAP. She also attempted to use two other guides, Cazoo 
(formerly Cazana) and Autotrader but neither could return a valuation as the loss was more 
than two years ago. Our investigators updated valuations were:
CAP  £8,995
Cazoo  £8,180
Based on these valuations, our investigator said a fair market value for Mr Hs car would be 
£8,587.50  the average of these two figures.
As explained by our investigator, our services typical approach when considering complaints 
about fair market value takes into account what the market leading motor trade guides say 
the market value is. These guides are independent from the insurance industry, and from 
one another. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take 
into account regional variations. Were confident these guides give a good reflection of the 
true market value of a vehicle.
I should also point out that our service typically finds these motor trade guides to be more 
persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are often the starting point 
of a negotiation and are what the seller would like to achieve, rather than the final price the 
vehicle actually sells for. Its also particularly important to note, in this case, that the adverts 
provided by Mr H are for cars with lower mileage or slightly different specifications than his 
car, which is also likely to have an impact on the advertised price.
Ultimately, our investigator has followed our services typical approach to reaching a fair 
valuation and Haven has accepted her increased valuation. Ive considered the additional 
information provided by Mr H, but it isnt sufficient to persuade me that the valuation arrived 
at by our investigator is unfair or unreasonable. So, Ill not be directing Haven to increase the 
settlement in this case, beyond the slight increase our investigator recommended (and 
Haven accepted).
That said, Havens system notes indicate it paid Mr H £1,375 as an interim payment in 
August 2022. Had Haven correctly valued Mr Hs car at the time, he would have been paid 
the correct valuation, less the policy excess and salvage, at that stage. So, I think Mr H has 
been out of pocket for the difference between the two, from August 2022 until now, as a 
result of Havens error.
To put this right, Haven should add 8% simple interest to the additional amount due to Mr H, 
from the date it paid him the interim payment until the date of settlement, to compensate him 
for being deprived of the use of that money for other purposes. This is in line with our 
services standard approach to awards where a consumer has been without funds as a 
result of a businesss error  which Admiral is no doubt aware of.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Haven Insurance Company Limited must:
Settle Mr Hs claim by paying the difference between the amount it has already paid 
and the amount it should have paid based on a valuation of £8,587.50.
Add 8% simple interest* to the amount remaining to be paid to Mr H, from the date it 
paid the interim payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
*If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman