DRN-2824286
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made by a 
third party on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G says a third-party driver stopped suddenly causing him to collide with the rear of their 
car. He says the accident happened at less than 5mph, and his airbags discharged, but this 
was due to an unrelated issue. He took multiple photographs of both cars and says there 
was no damage to either of them. 
The third-party driver made a claim against Mr G. And Admiral accepted liability for the 
incident and paid the third partys costs, but they didnt tell Mr G when they settled the claim. 
He says several years later, he found out how much Admiral paid when he was looking to 
take out insurance elsewhere. 
Mr G thinks the claim was fraudulent as there was no damage to either car. But Admiral 
didnt think their decision was wrong, they said they received evidence from the third partys 
engineers showing damage consistent with the nature of the accident. And as Mr G was at 
fault for the incident, they dealt with the claim accordingly. They acknowledge they didnt tell 
Mr G the claim had been settled, so they paid him £50 compensation, but they didnt agree 
to reinstate his no claims discount. 
Our investigator felt Admiral had acted fairly in settling the claim and thought their offer of 
£50 was fair. He sent Admiral the photographs Mr G provided us, and their engineer thought 
they showed scuff marks consistent with the accident. And he didnt think the third partys 
insurer had inflated the cost of the repairs. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision and says he spoke to independent mechanics 
who said there was no damage to the third partys car. He also says Admiral paid more to 
settle the claim than the market value of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator has reached, Ill explain why. In 
these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in 
question, thats something the courts decide. Rather, it is to decide whether Admirals 
investigation was fair, and if the outcome was reasonable. 
Mr Gs policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It entitled Admiral to: 
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf and also admit negligence 
for any accident or claim on your behalf. This means they can handle a claim however they 
see fit. Even though it might mean Admiral make a decision Mr G doesnt agree with, they 
are still allowed to do so. That said, we still expect them to settle a claim in a fair and 
reasonable way, taking into account all the facts and evidence provided by both sides.
Mr G doesnt dispute that he hit the third partys car but says there was no damage caused. 
The third partys insurer provided their engineers report of the damage and details of the 
cost to repair the car. Admiral concluded the evidence was consistent with the details of the 
accident that occurred. They also felt the issue with Mr Gs airbags would have been made 
worse by the accident. Ive thought about what theyve said, and I dont think its 
unreasonable.
Mr G thinks Admiral didnt investigate the claim as they should have. He says they were 
aware he and witnesses had taken photographs that showed there was no damage to either 
car, but Admiral didnt consider them in their investigation. I accept Admiral could have taken 
the photographs into account in making their decision, but I dont think they had to. It is 
ultimately up to Admiral to decide whether they have enough evidence to make their 
decision. And, Im not persuaded the photographs wouldve changed the outcome of the 
claim. I say this because, Admiral said they had considered what Mr G told them about the 
damage, but they explained that the damage isnt always visible, and I think what theyve 
said is fair. 
Never the less, our investigator sent Admiral the photographs Mr G provided of the third 
partys vehicle. Their engineer thought the photographs showed scuffing damage to the third 
partys car. He explained that both cars have impact mitigating components which may 
indicate that there was no damage when in fact there is both to the outer faces of the 
bumpers and then transfer damage to the inner panels. I dont think it is unreasonable for 
them to rely on the engineers expert opinion. And Im satisfied Admiral would have chosen 
to settle the claim as they did, even if they had reviewed Mr Gs photographs sooner.
I understand that Mr G feels Admiral paid more for the claim than the car was worth. But 
Admirals engineer looked at the third partys estimated cost to repair the car, and he 
concluded it was reasonable, and consistent with the incident recorded. I appreciate Mr G 
feels strongly and is willing to take the case to court, but as I mentioned earlier, Admiral can 
settle a claim on his behalf in the way they think is best. And Im satisfied they carried out a 
fair investigation, and find their decision to settle the claim and pay the third partys costs 
reasonable. 
Admiral acknowledge they didnt keep Mr G updated, so they paid him £50 to settle the 
complaint. I think this is fair compensation for the distress he would have felt when he found 
out. So, I wont ask them to do any more than they already have. My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman