DRN-3350613
The complaint
Mr S complains that INTERESTME FINANCIAL PLANNING LIMITED (Interestme) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer his Personal Pensions (PPs) with another provider to a Wise 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr S is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
What happened
Mr S said he was contacted by Interestme about a pension review in June 2016. 
The adviser completed a fact find on 13 June 2016 which recorded the following:
Mr S was 55, married, and had no financial dependents.
He was self-employed and earning around £2,800 each month.
He had two PPs with the same provider which had a total transfer value of 
£65,987.15. These funds had a current value with the existing provider of 
£67,199.96.
He owned his home and had an outstanding mortgage of £10,000.
Mr S wanted to retire by age 65. He wanted to be mortgage-free. He felt he would 
need £2,000 each month to live comfortably in retirement.
He had no other sources of income in retirement. 
His attitude to risk was recorded as medium. 
The fact find also recorded Mr Ss objectives. It said his most important objective was 
greater performance prospects. It also said:
- He didnt know as much as hed like about his pension. And had never had a review. 
So he wanted to speak with an adviser
- Mr S wasnt happy with his pension provider and wanted to understand his other 
options. 
- Hed be happy to switch his pension to a contract with lower costs.
Following the fact find, Interestme produced a suitability report dated 11 August 2016. And 
recommended that Mr S transferred his PPs into a Wise SIPP. The adviser recommended 
that Mr S invested in the Balanced Portfolio managed by another provider.
The suitability report gave the following reasons that the adviser had recommended the 
switch and a new investment strategy: 
Mr S would have greater investment flexibility and greater flexibility when he 
eventually took his retirement benefits. 
He would have a wider fund choice.
The recommended investment strategy offered greater potential returns which 
justified the penalty on transfer of the one existing plan which had a transfer 
penalty. 
Mr S wouldnt lose any guarantees within his existing PPs.
The suitability report listed the charges for the advisers recommendation as follows:
£114 each year tax wrapper charge,
0.84% Annual fund charge
0.42% platform charge
And stated that the annual charges Mr S was currently paying for his existing PPs were 
1.2% on the fund with a current fund value of £1,378.92 and 0.8% on the fund with a current 
fund value of £65,821.04. 
The suitability report also said that the adviser would charge a 3% initial fee for the advice 
and implementation of the recommendation. This was estimated as £1,980. There was also 
an ongoing advisory service charge of 0.75% each year. This was estimated as £480 in the 
first year.
The suitability report noted that the advisers recommendation was more expensive than 
both Mr Ss existing PPs and alternative choices such as stakeholder pensions. But felt that 
as Mr Ss main objective was performance, the Wise SIPP was the best option.
Mr S signed the application form to transfer to the Wise SIPP on 20 August 2016. I 
understand it was set up on 22 September 2016. I understand that the regular monthly 
contributions of £208.55 that Mr S had been paying into his existing PPs were to continue.
Mr S complained to Interestme through a CMC on 27 January 2021. He felt the advice to 
transfer was negligent. And that his circumstances at the time of the advice meant hed not 
been a suitable candidate for a SIPP. He felt that the transfer had caused him to suffer a 
financial loss. He also felt that he hadnt been invested in funds that were in line with his 
attitude to risk. Mr S also felt that Interestme hadnt complied with the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) rules. He wanted to be put back to the position he wouldve been in if 
he hadnt taken the unsuitable advice.
Interestme didnt issue a final response as they said Mr S had withdrawn his complaint. But 
on 23 March 2021 they wrote to the CMC about the fact that theyd recently received a large 
number of complaint letters from that firm. They asked them to stop sending complaints 
which they felt contained several inaccuracies. Interestme also felt that the CMC had been 
cold calling potential complainants and telling them theyd been mis-sold without any 
evidence. 
Interestme also said in their 23 March 2021 letter to the CMC that they felt there were a 
number of errors included in Mr Ss complaint. They didnt agree that Mr S had a low attitude to risk. Instead, they felt that the risk profile theyd discussed and agreed was that he had a 
medium attitude to risk. And they didnt agree that his circumstances at the time of the 
advice had made him unsuitable for the SIPP theyd recommended. They felt that each of 
the points the CMC had made were generic, with little evidence to suggest that theyd even 
assessed the client file.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service through the CMC in May 2021.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Interestme had 
recommended a higher cost SIPP without good reason. And that theyd incorrectly identified 
his attitude to risk as medium. He also felt that Interestme shouldve made Mr S aware that 
although he wanted to increase his income in retirement, it wasnt a realistic objective. He 
considered that Interestme should put Mr S back as close as possible to the position he 
would be in now if hed been given suitable advice. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the advice 
Interestme gave to Mr S was unsuitable. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now the FCA) published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable. That checklist identified four main areas where 
consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the 
right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to risk 
and personal circumstances
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ive considered these areas, where relevant, in my decision below. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss circumstances at the time of the advice. I understand that he 
didnt actively seek out advice on moving his pensions, but that he was contacted by 
Interestme about a pension review. I consider that until that contact, Mr S was sufficiently 
satisfied with his existing pension arrangements and wasnt actively seeking advice.
I went on to consider whether Interestmes adviser shouldve put Mr S at ease about his 
existing pension arrangements instead of recommending he switch into the SIPP. I would 
expect to see reasonable potential for Mr S to be better off to make the advice suitable.
Interestme compared the existing pension arrangements with their recommended SIPP. In like-for-like projections, the suitability report said that the total expected projected values at 
age 65 of Mr Ss existing pensions was £106,560  made up of £1,560 from the smaller of 
the two existing plans and £105,000 from the larger one. And the total projected value at age 
65 of the recommended SIPP was £101,010  made up of £1,410 and £99,600. So the like-
for-like projections indicated that the recommendation would lead to a lower total projected 
value at age 65. 
The suitability report also gave much higher projected values at age 65 for the 
recommended SIPP based on its 5 year annualised performance less all the charges taken, 
including my advice fees. The report also stated that the recommended investment portfolio 
had a five-year annualised performance of 9.4%. But then stated that the recommended 
portfolio had only been running for one year. Therefore the five-year performance had been: 
back-tested on a simulated basis. The total projected value on this basis was £156,320  
made up of £2,320 and £154,000. 
The suitability report stated that the recommended SIPP was more expensive than both Mr 
Ss existing arrangement and other options such as stakeholder pensions.  But said that the 
recommendation would justify the additional cost as it would meet his main objective of 
performance. 
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the adviser demonstrated that there was 
reasonable potential for Mr S to be better off. I say this because the like-for-like projections 
showed that it was likely that Mr S would be worse off at age 65. And the report also 
indicated that the recommended option was more expensive than his existing arrangement. 
I can see that the suitability report did present much higher projected values based on the 
annualised performance of the recommended portfolio. But I dont consider that it was fair or 
reasonable to base a long-term projection on a single year of actual fund performance. 
Ultimately, I dont consider that the projections fairly demonstrated that Mr S would be better 
off. So I dont consider that the advice was suitable in this regard. 
As noted above, the regulator outlined what should be considered when advising on a 
pension switch. They said that if additional costs were involved with the advice to switch, or if 
the client ended up paying for services they were unlikely to use, this is likely to indicate that 
the advice was unsuitable.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr S was in need of regular ongoing advice, or that he used 
the service hed been paying for. Therefore Im not persuaded that the additional ongoing 
charges wouldve provided him with a better outcome.
I acknowledge that Interestme gave several reasons for their recommendation in the 
suitability report. While I dont disagree that these reasons might all be correct, it remained 
the advisers responsibility to give Mr S suitable advice. 
Interestme suggested that switching would give Mr S a wider fund choice. They felt this 
would give him a chance of achieving a bigger pension fund in retirement. And that this 
would more than compensate for the £1,213 penalty on the transfer of the larger of Mr Ss 
existing PPs. 
But the suitability report also noted that Mr S wanted to have an income of £2,000 each 
month in retirement. Interestmes analysis of Mr Ss likely income in retirement if he stayed 
with his existing provider was that hed have a total income of £906 per month, showing a 
potential shortfall of £1,094 per month. The suitability report also noted that Mr S would be 
solely dependent on the PPs they were reviewing and the State Pension. The suitability report didnt show a projection of the income Mr S could expect to receive if he followed their 
recommendation and actually achieved the higher projected fund at retirement. But if it had, 
it wouldve shown a considerably lower projected monthly income than Mr S said he wanted 
in retirement.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr S was likely to be better off after the switch. I 
say this because any potentially improved investment strategy would need to more than 
cover both the additional and higher charges, and the £1,213 transfer penalty, before any 
improved performance would actually benefit Mr S. 
I also consider that if Mr S were to have any chance of getting close to his retirement income 
goal, he wouldve needed to take more risks with his pension fund. And as the suitability 
report noted, as he would be solely dependent on the PPs under review and the State 
Pension, Im not persuaded he could afford to take such risks. 
As our investigator said, Interestme shouldve made Mr S aware that it probably wouldnt be 
possible for him to achieve his income goal in retirement. 
I also note that a further reason Interestme gave for recommending the SIPP was that it 
would provide him with the opportunity to drawdown his retirement benefits, which his 
existing options didnt. But the suitability report also stated that Mr S felt he would need to 
have his pension income guaranteed for life. So theres no evidence that he had any interest 
in taking a drawdown option. In any event, Mr S couldve waited until he was approaching 
retirement age. And couldve still switched at that point, when he wouldve known exactly 
what he wanted.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the reasons Interestme gave for their recommendation were 
appropriate for Mr S. I say this because the recommendation was to switch to a pension that 
was more expensive than Mr Ss existing one without good reason. And this caused Mr S to 
have to pay a transfer penalty of £1,213. The adviser also recommended an ongoing 
service, but Ive seen no evidence that this was needed or ever actually put in place. 
Therefore Im satisfied that the advice wasnt suitable. 
I understand that Mr S has also complained that Interestme failed to fairly assess his risk 
(ATR).
Interestme have now provided evidence which shows that their adviser discussed Mr Ss 
ATR with him. They have provided notes that show this conversation wouldve taken place at 
some stage between 8 August and 11 August 2016. And that the outcome of the advisers 
analysis was that Mr S was a medium risk investor. However, there is very little documentary 
evidence of what was actually discussed at the time of the advice.
As Ive already concluded that the advice Interestme was unsuitable, Ive not considered this 
point further, as regardless of the outcome on this point, my overall decision will be the 
same. 
Im satisfied that the advice to transfer Mr Ss existing pensions to the Wise SIPP was 
unsuitable. And that the advice required him to pay unnecessary fees throughout the 
switching and investment process. It also required him to pay a transfer penalty. Therefore I 
uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I take the view that Mr S wouldve remained invested in his existing funds with his previous 
provider, however I cannot be certain that values will be obtainable for what the previous 
policies wouldve been worth. 
I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Interestme do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Interestme must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with his previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Interestme should add interest as set out below.
Interestme should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Interestme is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, as Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
If the advisers fees were paid independently of the pension transfers, and not taken 
from the transferred funds, Interestme must also repay those fees, together with 
simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of 
settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the 
difference between the actual value and the notional value can be offset against the 
fees with interest.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Interestme deducts income tax from any 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Interestme should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP Still in force Notional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per year 
from my final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Interestme should request that the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
the total of those payments being deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Interestme will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr S's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. I say 
this based on the fund he was invested in with his previous provider.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require INTERESTME FINANCIAL 
PLANNING LIMITED to pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman