DRN-2984433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) turned down a claim 
under their building warranty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D hold a building warranty with NHBC. They made a claim under the warranty 
for damage to the exterior of their property (excessive movement of quoins). NHBC thought 
the movement of the quoins was due to lack of sufficient restraint and so it accepted there 
was a Defect under the warranty. Initially the builder attempted repairs, but these failed. 
NHBC then arranged for its own contractor to carry out the repairs.
Then in 2020, Mr and Mrs D noticed some cracking to the external brickwork. They made a 
further claim to NHBC.
NHBC thought the cracking was due to thermal movement, which was excluded under the 
warranty. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs D brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Mr and Mrs D 
had provided evidence to support that the cracking was anything other than thermal 
movement. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr and Mrs Ds complaint to NHBC included their concerns about NHBCs handling 
of the claim, theyve only asked this service to consider NHBCs decision to turn down their 
claim. 
The warranty excludes shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different types 
of material. It also excludes cosmetic damage such as minor cracking which doesnt impair 
the structural stability or weather tightness of the property.
NHBC carried out an inspection in 2020. It said there was evidence of cracking to the mortar 
joints of the stone walling in various places. It noted the cracks were up to 3mm wide, and 
said there were no areas of loose stone walling or significantly displaced quoins. NHBC 
referred to the previous repairs that had been carried out, and thought the present cracking 
was predominantly in new areas. It accepted there was some cracking that corresponded to 
previous repairs, but it thought the damage was consistent with the effects of linear 
expansion and contraction of the stone walling. 
NHBC concluded that the damage was due to thermal movement, and said there was no 
evidence that the cracking had impaired the structural integrity or weathertightness of the 
property. 
Mr and Mrs D told our investigator there was an area of the property which hadnt been 
repaired by NHBC previously where they thought the quoin stones were failing. They said 
the cracks werent hairline. Our investigator spoke with NHBC about this and it confirmed 
that it had taken into account that area of the property when it wrote its report. NHBC 
thought the crack may have become slightly wider as the wall had expanded and contracted.
Mr and Mrs D havent provided any independent evidence to support their view that the 
damage has a cause other than thermal movement (or that any of the quoin stones have 
moved excessively, as was the case previously). 
Based on NHBCs report, I therefore agree with our investigator that it was reasonable for 
NHBC to turn down the claim. It didnt find any of the quoins to be significantly displaced. 
And whilst it accepted there was some cracking, it attributed this to thermal movement which 
is excluded under the warranty.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman