DRN-1829989
The complaint
Mrs C complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with her claim under a travel insurance policy. She wants 
matters put right.
What happened
Mrs C had a travel insurance policy with CIGNA. While abroad, she broke her femur and 
contacted CIGNA. She said that it decided not to repatriate her immediately, but instead 
allowed her to be treated in a local hospital. Mrs C also said that she told CIGNA that the 
hospital was dirty, provided poor care and food, and relied on family and friends to look after 
patients. But the local agent of CIGNA told it that the hospital was normal and CIGNA relied 
on his assessment, rather than Mrs C's, which she was unhappy about. She felt 
CIGNA chose to send her to a public hospital so the NHS would pay the costs, though Mrs C 
also said CIGNA offered to pay for a private nurse and the hospital refused to allow this and 
did arrange for an air ambulance after several days.
Mrs C complained to CIGNA. It said that it hadn't provided a private health insurance policy; 
Mrs C had a travel insurance policy. This meant the policy only covered private care if public 
care wasn't available or wasn't able to carry out the required treatment. CIGNA said when it 
was contacted, Mrs C had already been to a private clinic and it was told she was being 
transferred to the local hospital. Matters were complicated by a concern that fraud might've 
been attempted by the private facilities involved, which was why it appointed a local agent to 
find out the position from the local public hospital. The public hospital confirmed early on that 
it could treat and stabilise Mrs C and was arranging to do so; CIGNA said as a result there 
wasn't a discussion about repatriation until later.
CIGNA accepted that it was always likely that Mrs C would need to be repatriated by air 
ambulance, but the arrangements couldn't be made until the treating doctor said she was fit 
to fly. It said once it had this confirmation and the results of the necessary tests, it made the 
arrangements for the earliest possible date and to get Mrs C admitted into a UK hospital 
(she arrived in the UK about five days after the injury happened). CIGNA said that it wasn't 
until after the arrangements had been made that Mrs C's family raised concerns about the 
cleanliness of the hospital; its agent confirmed that the hospital was medically appropriate 
with standard nursing and food. Despite this, CIGNA said it offered to arrange private 
nursing, but the hospital refused to allow this; it said it offered to transfer Mrs C to a private 
clinic for her last night, but her husband declined as she didn't want to move shortly before 
going home.
Mrs C complained to us and said it was her, not a relative, who raised the concerns with 
CIGNA and she'd been told her blood pressure was too high to go to a private clinic. The 
investigator's view was that CIGNA wasn't at fault. He said it was reasonable and fair for 
CIGNA to expect treatment to be carried out in a public hospital, though this had been 
arranged before it was contacted in the first place. The confusion caused by the fraudulent 
attempts of a private hospital to take over wasn't CIGNA's fault, and the investigator thought 
the appointment of a local agent to keep an eye on the situation was fair and reasonable. The investigator also thought that while Mrs C was critical about the medical treatment she 
received, CIGNA wasn't responsible for that, though there was no concern raised by its own 
medical team about the treatment given to stabilise the leg to enable repatriation. He noted 
that the first time CIGNA was told about concerns about cleanliness and care, it asked the 
local agent for advice, and was told the hospital was suitable with three meals a day 
provided. When the concerns were raised again, CIGNA tried to arrange a private nurse or a 
transfer to a private facility, which the investigator thought was fair and reasonable. But he 
put weight on the evidence from the notes written at the time that Mrs C declined to transfer 
and there was no evidence from the time that she couldn't due to her blood pressure. He 
also said repatriation was arranged as quickly as was reasonable by CIGNA, particularly as 
it was regularly asking for updates and trying to progress matters.
Mrs C disagreed. She felt CIGNA had allowed inappropriate treatment to be carried out and 
said she and her family spoke to CIGNA daily and several times a day. Mrs C felt the agent's 
view wasn't correct and the truth of the matter had been covered up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to CIGNA, I'm also referring 
to its agents. I appreciate that Mrs C wants to change polices and approaches of insurers, 
but that's outside the scope of this service's role - we only deal with individual complaints.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. But it isn't responsible for the medical treatment carried out by the 
local public hospital; it underwrote travel insurance, not private medical insurance.
While Mrs C has strong feelings about the treatment and care she received, I can't find 
CIGNA is responsible for this. It's fair and reasonable if treatment can be carried out at a 
public hospital for an insurer to require such a facility to be used. The treatment itself was 
carried out the next day and designed to allow Mrs C to go home for further treatment; this 
was achieved. Mrs C's hasn't supplied any expert medical evidence about her case, and I 
note that the advising experts at CIGNA had no concerns with the treatment plan outlined by 
the local hospital. It's fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on both the advice of its 
qualified experts and the treating doctors.
In relation to the care at the hospital, while Mrs C has said both she and husband called 
CIGNA frequently to complain, that isn't supported by either phone records from her or the 
contact notes written at the time by CIGNA. As the notes were written at the time years 
before a complaint was made, I place weight on them. It wasn't until 2 September that the 
first complaint was made and CIGNA promptly contacted its agent to find out the position. 
The agent explained that the hospital was suitable with standard nursing care and food. But 
when further complaints were made, CIGNA didn't ignore them but tried to arrange a private 
nurse and then a transfer to a private clinic. There's no contemporaneous evidence showing 
Mrs C couldn't transfer; there is a note written at the time of a conversation between her 
husband and CIGNA where Mrs C said she would stay as repatriation was due the next day. 
I place weight on this note, and logically it makes sense given the difficulties in moving Mrs 
C. The private nursing was refused by the hospital. I think CIGNA acted fairly and 
reasonably in addressing the concerns when raised.
And I think CIGNA acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with repatriation. It wasn't 
possible until Mrs C was fit to fly. Given the complexities of arranging air ambulances 
(including access to a suitable place to land), this isn't done until the treating doctor confirms 
the patient is fit to fly and full medical information is available to the experts in repatriation to 
ensure that flight is safe. I can see CIGNA regularly asked the hospital for updates and chased for the information it needed to assess Mrs C was safe to fly. This took some time, 
but I note even from an early stage Mr C was told repatriation was likely to happen on the 
day that it did due to the complexities of the arrangements. CIGNA even chose the more 
expensive option to get Mrs C back to the UK as quickly as possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
22 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman