DRN-3083379
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) didnt deal with a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ds ceiling collapsed in her home. So, she contacted Ageas to make a claim. Ageas 
told Miss D that she had a contents only policy, so she didnt have cover in place to make a 
claim for the ceiling.
So, Miss D complained. When Ageas replied it confirmed that Miss D didnt have buildings 
insurance cover in place, so couldnt deal with the claim.
When Miss D complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said Miss D didnt have buildings insurance cover in place under the policy, so the cover 
wasnt in place to make the claim.
As Miss D didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I understand Miss D thought the ceiling collapsed because of an escape of water. Ive read 
Miss Ds policy documents. These said the policy covered contents only. For the section 
headed Buildings Insurance, it said N/A for each of the elements. For Miss D to claim for 
repairs to the ceiling, Miss D needed buildings insurance in place. So, as she didnt have 
buildings insurance, she didnt have the appropriate cover in place to make a claim under 
the policy.
Ive also listened to the sales call when Miss D originally discussed taking out the policy. 
During that phone call, Miss D said she only wanted contents cover. So, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Ageas incorrectly set up the policy on its systems.
Miss D didnt have buildings insurance cover in place. As a result, I think it was reasonable 
for Ageas not to deal with the claim.
If Miss D is concerned that the policy was mis-sold to her, she would need to raise that as a 
separate complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman