DRN-3669549
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Aldermore Bank Plc dealt with several hire purchase agreements 
when he got into financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr A acquired four cars in 2018 under hire purchase agreements with Aldermore. For ease, 
Ill refer to these agreements as A, B, C and D. The dates these were taken and the cash 
price of the cars were as follows:
Agreement Date Cash price
A 23/10/2018 £32,000.00
B 20/09/2018 £54,995.00
C 31/05/2018 £210,000.00
D 20/09/2018 £114,995.00
Unfortunately, Mr A later got into financial difficulty. He proposed to Aldermore that he would 
pay 50% of the amounts due under the agreements going forward on a monthly basis until 
he could sell a property.
Aldermore then issued default notices on all four agreements. And following these, it sent 
Mr A termination notices for all four agreements. The dates for these were:
Agreement Default notice Date terminated
A 23/10/2019 17/12/2019
B 23/10/2019 17/12/2019
C 20/12/2019 08/01/2020
D 23/10/2019 28/11/2019
Following the agreements being terminated, the cars were then repossessed by Aldermore. 
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained. Aldermore issued its final response in January 
2022. 
It said, in summary, that Mr As request to make partial repayments had been declined. It 
said default notices were served on all agreements and the conditions were not met  so it 
wasnt unfair to terminate the agreements. It said Mr A hadnt paid one third of the amounts 
due under the agreements when they were terminated, so it could repossess the cars. And it 
said the sale price for the cars was roughly in line with what it expected. It also said that it 
had agreed a further plan under one agreement to allow Mr A to keep a car after the 
termination, but this plan wasnt met.
As part of its final response, Aldermore gave the following information about the cars under 
the agreements:
Agreement Valuation Sale price
A £23,000.00 Not sold
B £35,000.00 £35,000.00
C £135,000.00 £130,000.00
D £75,000.00 £85,000.00
Mr A remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He says Aldermore 
terminated his agreements when revised payment plans were in place. He thinks the cars 
were repossessed illegally. He says the cars were sold for less than they were worth due to 
an agreement between Aldermore and a dealer. And he says Aldermore bullied and 
threatened him.
Our investigator issued an opinion and did not uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, 
that he was satisfied the conditions under the defaults hadnt been met. He said Mr A hadnt 
repaid one third of the amounts due under the agreements when they were terminated, so 
Aldermore could repossess the cars. And he said there was no evidence the cars had been 
sold for less than they were worth.
Mr A was unhappy with this. He said he had paid 20% of the purchase price of the cars 
upfront, so he wouldve paid over one third of the amounts due. He said the calculations the 
investigator had used were incorrect and asked for an explanation for the legal definition of 
the third in question. And he said the cars were undervalued as they were rare.
Our investigator said this didnt change his opinion. So, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I asked Aldermore for some further details about how it valued the cars and where they were 
sold. It sent me some emails and information about this. It also explained the car under 
agreement A was considered to not be in the best condition, was revalued at £19,000 and 
was then sold at auction for £17,552.
I sent Mr A and Aldermore a provisional decision on 12 August 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr As complaint is about several hire purchase agreements. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as these as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Mr As complaint about Aldermore. 
Mr A complains about several different things. So, Ill consider each of these in turn.
Repossessions
It isnt in dispute in this case that Mr A didnt meet the conditions of the default notices, so I 
dont need to comment on this. 
While Mr A said a repayment agreement was in place at this time, Ive seen an email from 
October 2019 from Aldermore that explains quite clearly that this wasnt the case. Im 
satisfied this means Aldermore didnt renege on arrangements as Mr A said. So, I dont think 
Aldermore needs to take any action on this point.
Given the conditions of the default notices werent met, and Aldermore then terminated the 
agreements, what I need to consider here is whether Aldermore then acted fairly and 
reasonably when it repossessed the cars without a court order. The agreements Mr A signed explained in the terms and conditions that:
If you do not keep your side of the agreement but you have paid at least one third of the 
total amount payable under this agreement, that is (amount) the creditor may not take back 
the goods against your wishes unless he gets a court order
I think in our investigators view that there was some confusion over the figures involved 
when discussing if Aldermore acted reasonably here. Mr A also disputed this and asked for a 
legal explanation of what the one third actually meant. So, I think its worth explaining the 
background here before going into the figures involved.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) is relevant to the agreements Mr A entered into. The 
one third referred to here comes from the CCA  which explains under section 90:
90 Retaking of protected hire-purchase etc. goods.
(1) At any time when
(a) the debtor is in breach of a regulated hire-purchase or a regulated conditional sale 
agreement relating to goods, and
(b) the debtor has paid to the creditor one-third or more of the total price of the goods, and
(c) the property in the goods remains in the creditor, 
the creditor is not entitled to recover possession of the goods from the debtor except on an 
order of the court
Section 189 of the CCA  definitions  explains what total price is defined as under F47:
total price means the total sum payable by the debtor under a hire-purchase agreement or 
a conditional sale agreement, including any sum payable on the exercise of an option to 
purchase, but excluding any sum payable as a penalty or as compensation or damages for a 
breach of the agreement
In Mr As specific case, the total price under the agreements he took means the cash price 
of the car, the finance charges, the documentation fee and the option to purchase fee.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied the figures quoted in the investigators view are 
unfortunately incorrect  and Id like to apologise to Mr A and Aldermore for this.
Its also worth noting here that Mr A was correct that the deposits he paid towards the 
agreements would count towards what totals had been paid. But, I dont agree he paid 20% 
of the amount due up front on all of the agreements. 
For ease, Ive explained here what the total price under each agreement was, what one 
third of this is, and what Mr A had paid towards each agreement at the point it was 
terminated. To be clear, the amount Mr A paid towards each agreement includes the deposit 
set out on each credit agreement:
Agreement "total price" One third Total paid
A £41,619.20 £13,873.07 £4,914.60
B £66,168.16 £22,056.05 £15,771.46
C £251,110.40 £83,703.47 £80,703.60
D £139,153.10 £46,384.37 £17,064.20So, this means that, even including the deposits Mr A paid, he had not paid one third of the 
total price of the goods, as explained in the CCA, under any of the agreements at the 
points they were terminated. Given this, Im satisfied that Aldermore didnt need a court 
order to repossess the cars.
It follows that thinking about everything, I dont think Aldermore acted unreasonably by 
repossessing the cars from Mr A.
Sale price
Mr A complains about the sale price of the cars and believes Aldermore are guilty of insider 
trading. It isnt my place to decide this  I need to consider if Aldermore acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
I asked Aldermore for some more information about how it valued and then sold the cars. It 
explained due to the nature and age of the cars, the cars under agreements B, C and D  
were sold to specialist dealers as it believed this would get the best price. It has shown these 
cars were sold to different dealers in different locations. It later explained the car under 
agreement A wasnt in as good condition as the others and so was auctioned.
I did attempt to run the cars through a valuation tool. However, due to the ages and types of 
car involved there wasnt specific information available. I could find a valuation for similar 
models for those under agreements A and C. The valuation for agreement A was roughly in 
line with what Aldermore said, and the valuation of agreement C was quite a bit lower than 
the figure Aldermore gave. Having said this, I should stress I am putting very minimal weight 
on this information.
Given this, and due to the nature of the cars, I think its fair to say an accurate valuation 
would best come from an expert. Ive considered that Aldermore have shown the cars were 
valued by the Head of Specialist Vehicle Valuations. 
Ive considered that all of the cars were sold roughly in line with the valuations Aldermore 
gave.
Finally, I also need to consider that Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to suggest these 
values were inaccurate. 
Ive thought very carefully about this. On balance, I havent seen enough to make me think 
its likely Aldermore acted unreasonably by selling the cars for what it did here. So, I dont 
think it needs to take any further action.
Communication
Mr A said Aldermore used bullying, intimidation and threats  when dealing with this 
situation. But, he hasnt given any specific examples. And looking at the communication 
between Mr A and Aldermore, I cant see this was the case. So, I dont think Aldermore 
needs to take any action here.
I want to reassure Mr A that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
this complaint. But, having done so, I still dont initially think it should be upheld.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with anything else they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Neither Mr A nor Aldermore responded.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information and evidence on this case again, I still think it 
should not be upheld. This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision 
and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman