DRN-4036982
The complaint
Mr C and Ms S complain that Santander UK plc did not do enough to protect them from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help them recover the money 
once theyd reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr C and Ms S were victims of an investment scam. Mr C had been investing in 
cryptocurrency with the help of a broker Ill refer to as C. In August 2021, he received an 
email from C explaining his cryptocurrency wallet was being frozen but that if he took out 
another account with a different exchange company (who Ill refer to as B), the 
cryptocurrency could be transferred.
After researching B, Mr C made nine payments to it (and another cryptocurrency exchange) 
totalling £42,498. The payments were made via online transfer from his Santander account 
between 23 August 2021 and 8 October 2021, with the money used to purchase 
cryptocurrency before being loaded onto an online wallet. 
After hed paid the agreed amount, Mr C was told by the broker hed need to pay a further 
£4,000 into the account to allow the deposit of the cryptocurrency into the wallet, followed by 
two payments totalling £4,800 to a personal account nominated by the broker, which he did.
Mr C was given scam warnings on 26 October 2021 when he tried to make the payments to 
the personal account. Both times he confirmed he was paying for a service and the block 
was removed. Santander then contacted him on 27 October 2021 to ask questions and give 
a fraud warning. 
During the call Mr C explained hed been dealing with cryptocurrency for a while and that 
hed approached and researched the investment himself. He confirmed hed not been 
approached or contacted by anyone and was looking to exchange his cryptocurrency into 
GBP. Mr C told the call handler he hadnt been asked to pay any upfront fees. He also said 
there was no third-party or broker involved and that he hadnt allowed remote access to any 
of his devices. He said only he had access to his wallet, and it was secured with two-factor 
authentication. During the call, Santander gave a full scam warning and Mr C confirmed he 
was aware of the risks. As a result, Santander agreed to remove the block. 
Mr C realised hed been the victim of a scam a few days later when he was unable to contact 
the broker. He contacted Santander who said two payments Mr C had made on 26 October 
2021 would be refunded under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), but the other 
nine payments couldnt be refunded under the CRM as they were paid to an account in his 
name.
Mr C and Ms S werent satisfied and so they complained to Santander. But it maintained its 
position. It said the correct level of security had been used to complete the transactions and 
that it would only refund the payments Mr C had made on 26th October 2021. It explained 
that the nine remaining payments were reviewed as part of the same process but that they 
didnt fall under the scheme. 
Mr C and Mrs S remained dissatisfied and so they complained to this service. They said they 
wanted Santander to fully reimburse the money theyd lost, and they didnt understand why 
the nine payments wouldnt come under the same remit as the two payments Santander had 
agreed to refund. They said theyd offered to send copies of scam emails with the company 
logos and signatures of the actual companies involved, but it said it wouldnt need them.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  She accepted Mr C and Ms S 
had been the victims of a scam, but she didnt think Santander should reasonably have been 
expected to prevent this or that it should have refused to put the payments through.
She thought Santander should have contacted Mr C when he tried to make the second 
payment. But she didnt think an intervention from Santander wouldve made a difference to 
Mr Cs decision to make the payments because hed previously ignored advice about 
investment scams from another bank. And on 27 October 2021, Santander had contacted 
him to discuss the two payments hed made the day before and during that call Mr C gave 
answers that werent accurate.
With the help of a representative, Mr C has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. The representative has argued that the first payment should have triggered 
Santanders fraud systems.
They have also argued that this scam was different in nature to the previous scam, which 
followed a known cryptocurrency investment scam pattern and involved the use of a 
professional looking online portal where Mr C could monitor his investments and see his 
deposits in real-time. They explained that Mr C was never told how the scam operated or 
that his investments had never existed. Consequently, after the previous bank had closed its 
fraud investigation, Mr C still believed his investments were real, so he approached a 
different company. 
The representative has argued it is reasonable to expect Santander to have been able to 
uncover the second scam had they sufficiently questioned Mr C as there were multiple red 
flags that could have been identified e.g. Mr C believing he was making the payments to 
validate an account in his name at the request of a broker. Theyve also argued Mr C may 
have been more likely to listen to advice if Santander had intervened before the first 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Im sorry to hear that 
Mr C and Ms S have been the victims of a cruel scam. I know they feel strongly about this 
complaint and this will come as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr C and Ms S say theyve fallen 
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Santander has said the CRM code didnt apply in the case of nine of the payments because they were made to an account Mr C 
held in his own name. Im satisfied thats in line with the CRM code.
Im satisfied Mr C authorised the payments for the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of the 
bank account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr C didnt intend the money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Santander is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Santander could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. While cryptocurrency exchange companies are commonly used by 
scammers, buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, 
the payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, 
Santander had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr C when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect Santander to intervene with a view to protecting Mr C and Ms S from financial 
harm due to fraud. 
Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr C and Ms S normally ran their account and I think that they were. 
This is because, when Mr C made the first payment to B, even though he had paid 
cryptocurrency exchanges before, there had not previously been a transaction greater than 
£2,000 from the account, and this was the first time hed paid B. So, Im satisfied the first 
payment should have triggered Santanders fraud systems.
This should have prompted a call from Santander, earlier than it did. During this call I would 
expect Santander to have asked some probing questions around whether there was a third-
party or a broker involved, how Mr C had come into contact with the broker and whether hed 
been asked to pay any fees or given the broker access to his wallet account.
However, if Santander had asked these questions, I think its unlikely Mr C would have 
answered truthfully. I say this because he didnt answer honestly when he was questioned 
on 27 October 2021 and I dont think an earlier call would have been any different. Because 
of this, I dont think Santander would have gathered enough information to suggest the 
investment could be a scam.
Notwithstanding the fact I dont think Mr C would have disclosed enough information to 
suggest this was a scam, I would still expect Santander to have warned Mr C about the risks 
associated with the investment and to discuss with him the nature of the checks hed 
undertaken and to give some advice on additional due diligence.
Our investigator has said she doesnt believe a call from Santander would have made a 
difference to Mr Cs decision to go ahead with the first payment because there were no 
warnings about B on the FCA website and its clear from the fact he withheld information on 
27 October 2022, he trusted the broker and was determined to go ahead with the 
investment. The fact is, Santander contacted Mr C when he tried to make the payment on 27 October 
and he still went ahead with the payment, having failed to disclose facts which would likely 
have alerted Santander to the fact Mr C was the victim of a scam. Im satisfied that Mr C was 
asked sufficiently probing questions and that he was clearly and effectively advised about 
the risks associated with investing in cryptocurrency, including a description of the methods 
used by scammers.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. And I dont think it got to 
the point where Santander ought to have prevented the payments altogether as its most 
likely C presented them as genuine and would have continued to do so.
Im sorry to hear Mr C and Ms S have lost money, but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Santander is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman