DRN-3341750
The complaint
Mr C held an account with Contis Financial Services Limited.  He complains that his card 
was blocked for no reason and when he tried to make contact to resolve this his attempts 
were rejected.   
What happened
Mr C is an EU citizen who was working in the UK. His employer provided him with a pre-pay 
card account with Contis that they could pay his wages into. 
Mr C told us that in November 2020 his card was blocked. He said that he tried to make 
contact by e mail and phone with Contis repeatedly but was told that they couldnt help him 
as he couldnt identify himself.  Eventually, Mr Cs employer spoke to them and they 
unblocked the card. 
Mr C is no longer in the UK and told us that his card has been blocked again with no reason. 
He still has £800 in his account, which he cant access, and he cant close the account. This 
is costing him £5 a month as Contis are deducting a fee. 
Mr C complained to Contis. But they didnt uphold his complaint. They said that in January 
2021 an incorrect PIN was entered more than twice, which blocked the PIN, but that 
contactless payments were still available. In July 2021 the account was suspended after a 
transfer request was made, but insufficient details were provided to complete the transfer. 
Contis said that they have tried to assist Mr C with the transfer request but that he has been 
unable to provide clear and correct identification, and so they have not been able to 
complete it.  
Mr C was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and she thought that Contis had fairly applied their 
terms and conditions and followed processes.     
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr C and the business. Ive considered 
whether Contis have acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions.
I can see from the evidence provided that the PIN was initially blocked in January 2021 
because it had been incorrectly entered 5 times. When this happens, it is normal for a bank 
or financial service provider to block the PIN until they have been able to verify the identity of 
the cardholder in line with their own security and regulatory requirements. I am satisfied that 
this was necessary, and that Contis havent done anything wrong in blocking Mr Cs PIN.   
Although cash withdrawals were blocked, the statement provided by Contis showed that Mr 
C was still able to use his card to make purchases, having made a purchase on 8 and 24 
February 2021.
In July 2020 Mr C wrote to Contis to ask them to transfer his money to a new account in his 
home country. His letter said that this request was after was after 20-30 emails and calls and 
still not being able to use his account. I havent been provided with any evidence by either 
party that Mr C made contact with Contis between January and July 2020 about not being 
able to use his card, so I am unable to make a finding about this.  
Following the transfer request letter, Contis suspended the account so it couldnt be used at 
all and asked Mr C to provide details to complete the transfer. They told Mr C that to 
complete an international transfer they would need the IBAN, Swift code, Bank address and 
his address. He wrote again in August and was advised that he need to provide his account 
number, date of birth, postcode and address. Mr C provided these, and was then asked for 
his UK address and a selfie holding his ID. This was to ensure that he was the account 
holder. 
Mr C provided a number of photos in the subsequent e mails, but Contis said that these 
were blurred or had reflection and so they were not able confirm Mr Cs identity from them.
 
Having read the e mail chains, I can see that Contis are trying to assist Mr C by advising him 
what is needed to verify his identity, responding quickly to his e mails. However, 
unfortunately he has not been able to provide sufficient evidence to confirm his identity, and 
so they have been unable to process his request in line with their security policies. 
 
Contis have provided clear guidance on what is needed and why, and so Im satisfied that 
they havent done anything wrong. Mr C still has the opportunity provide what is required and 
gain access his funds. In the meantime, I understand that Contis have suspended the 
monthly payment of £5, which was of concern to Mr C.  
 
In view of the above, I agree with the investigator that Contis havent done anything wrong 
here. No additional charges are being incurred, and Mr C still has the opportunity to verify 
his identity and resolve the matter.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
Contis Financial Services Limited.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman