The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how long it took Admiral Insurance Company Limited to replace his 
windscreen under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs windscreen was damaged on 9 August 2019. He took his car to a repairer (R1) who 
said the windscreen would need to be replaced, and that they could do it immediately.
When discussing his insurance though, R1 said Admiral only uses a particular repairer, (R2), 
for windscreen replacements, so he wouldnt be able to claim on his policy if R1 did it.
Mr B called R2 and they said they couldnt source the required windscreen immediately, they 
said someone would call Mr B back in a few hours. Mr B says this call back never happened, 
so he called R2 again the following day. Mr B says R2 told him they still couldnt source a 
replacement windscreen. Mr B was unhappy with this because it meant he had to borrow his 
wifes car, meaning she would have to use public transport. Mr B said the call handler hung 
up on him.
Mr B then called Admiral and asked if he could use R1, but he was told hed only receive a 
£50 contribution if he did that. Mr B said that wouldnt really help as it was an £800 job, so he 
spent the next few days contacting Admiral and R2 to try and speed things up.
R2s notes show that on 13 August 2019, they sent Mr B a text message to arrange an 
appointment for fitting the new windscreen. The date agreed was 31 August 2019, as Mr B 
was going on holiday. The windscreen fitting went ahead as planned.
Mr B is unhappy that Admiral tied him into using R2. He feels that as R2 couldnt source a 
windscreen as quickly, he shouldve been allowed to use R1, without the £50 limit applying. 
Mr B feels that Admiral should have done more to help the situation instead of leaving him to 
chase R2.
Mr B says the time taken to fit the windscreen has caused inconvenience and financial loss.
Admiral and R2 responded to Mr Bs complaints separately. 
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They confirmed what Mr B had been advised in 
relation to the £50 limit if hed wanted an immediate repair with R1. And they said R2 would 
deal with the other concerns.
R2 accepted the service offered to Mr B couldve been better and paid him £25 for trouble 
and upset caused, as well as £15.18 for phone calls made.
Mr B didnt accept either response and brought his complaint to our service.
DRN-1725520An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt the policy was clear in relation to the 
£50 limit for use of an alternative repairer. And they didnt feel the timescales involved were 
unreasonable. The investigator noted that Mr B had made several calls during the matter but 
concluded that the compensation paid by R2 was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He said an assumption had been made that the windscreen would be 
available on 16 August 2019, and it was only his forthcoming holiday that meant it had to 
wait until 31 August 2019. Mr B also said he was concerned Admiral knew things that had 
just been between him and R2.
Mr B felt the investigator hadnt taken into account the number of calls made and said the 
only reason Admiral and R2 got their act together was down to his persistence.
Mr B said the windscreen claim line is for R2, and that where poor service is provided by 
them, he ought to be able to raise it with Admiral. He said this isnt as easy to do as it 
sounds.
Mr B felt it was wrong to cite the £40.18 compensation in the complaint about Admiral, as it 
was paid by R2.
The investigator said he couldnt look at Mr Bs concerns regarding Admiral and R2 sharing 
information because it was a new complaint point that would have to be raised with the 
businesses first.
The investigator said he had taken into account the number of calls, and that he couldnt say 
what would have happened if Mr B hadnt called as much as he did. And he noted that 
Admiral contacted Mr B with updates throughout.
Ultimately the investigator felt the timescales for repair werent unreasonable and that the 
compensation was fair.
Mr B remained unhappy, he said the investigator hadnt addressed all his points and that the 
compensation being paid without his consent is a breach of data protection. The investigator 
said that was a new complaint point too, so he couldnt address it.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im not upholding his complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr Bs car insurance policy includes windscreen cover, which says:
We will pay:
to repair or replace broken glass in your cars windscreen, windows or sunroof
It also says:
We will not pay:more than £25 for each glass repair or £50 for each glass replacement after we  have
deducted your excess, if the repair or replacement is not arranged via our glass
repair helpline.
Admiral has done what the policy says it will do by covering the cost of Mr Bs windscreen 
replacement. There are no timescales given in this section of Mr Bs policy, but there is a 
regulatory requirement on insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly (and I include R2 in 
this as they were acting on Admirals behalf).
Whilst Mr B has explained that R1 couldve done the repair immediately, that alone doesnt 
make R2s timescales unfair. Mr B contacted R2 on 9 August 2019, they emailed him the 
following day to say theyd be in touch when the glass is available. The day after that they 
contacted him to say they were awaiting authorisation from Admiral.
On 12 August 2019, Admiral provided that authorisation and on the 13th R2 sent Mr B a text 
message to arrange an appointment. Mr B called to arrange for the replacement to be done 
on the 31st, which I understand went ahead.
Admiral and R2 say the reason it couldnt be done earlier is because Mr B said he was going 
on holiday.
I dont know what the earliest date the replacement could be done was, but bearing in mind 
everything Ive seen I dont think I can say the claim handling wasnt prompt or wasnt fair. I 
understand Mr B feels very strongly otherwise but he was given updates on progress and it 
was only four days from reporting the damage to arranging an appointment.
In my view, much of the inconvenience Mr B suffered resulted from the incident itself, as 
opposed to undue delays on the part of Admiral or R2.
I appreciate Mr B feels none of this wouldve happened, had he not pursued the matter so 
much. I dont know if thats the case, but it did happen, Mr B was given updates and I think 
Admiral and R2 took his concerns seriously. I appreciate Mr B feels that Admiral was unfair 
in tying him to R2, but I dont agree. 
If Admiral and R2 had been unable to handle the claim promptly and fairly its possible I 
could say they ought to have looked at alternatives  such as allowing Mr B to use R1 at no 
additional cost to him, i.e. waiving the £50 limit. But as I think Admiral and R2 handled the 
claim promptly and fairly that wasnt necessary.
Mr B feels Admiral shouldve done more to help, and that it wasnt easy to raise concerns 
about R2 with them. But, being dissatisfied with R2 on 9 August 2019, I see Mr B called 
Admiral the following day to complain. Admiral in turn contacted R2 and said theyd update 
Mr B on the Monday, this being at the weekend. Admiral also marked the matter as being 
urgent.
Admiral provided Mr B with the update as promised by sending him a text message to say 
the glass is being sourced. I do appreciate Mr B made a lot of calls, but I havent seen any 
barriers which prevented him from raising his concerns with Admiral. I do though, think that 
Admiral and R2 shouldve had a more joined up approach in handling this matter, rather than 
each issuing their own final response letter.
Mr B has raised concerns about data protection in relation to Admiral and R2 sharing 
information about him. And in relation to the compensation being paid without his 
permission.Admiral and R2 need to share information about Mr B to effectively provide the service hes 
entitled to. So, I dont think doing that was wrong. And I dont think making a payment to 
someone without their permission is unfair either. I appreciate Mr B might not have accepted 
the payment, nor felt it to be sufficient  but I dont think that stops R2 from making the 
payment if they still want to say sorry.
Id like to make clear that I understand Mr Bs frustration and that having to deal with two 
companies about the same thing isnt necessarily easy or welcome. I also understand he 
shouldnt have needed to make as many calls as he did. So, I agree he had valid concerns 
and wasnt wrong to have raised them. But in the main, I think the claim was handled in line 
with the policy terms and was done so promptly and fairly.
I agree the service couldve been better but, for the reasons explained, I feel the £40.18 is 
fair compensation for that.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I don't uphold Mr B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman