DRN-3497989
The complaint
Mr C has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc unreasonably refused to deal with his 
claim for the theft of his van under his commercial motor policy.
 
Mr C is represented by Miss J but for clarity I shall just refer to Mr C throughout.
What happened
Mr C bought his van on 14 May 2021 from a private seller with one key for £3,500. On 29 
May 2021 Mr C said he left his van outside a garage as it was having its MOT the next day. 
His van was stolen overnight, so he made a claim to West Bay. 
West Bay said that throughout its investigations to validate Mr Cs claim there were 
numerous discrepancies. It said as Mr C couldnt explain these satisfactorily, it decided to 
repudiate his claim. Mr C complained but West Bay wouldnt change its stance. 
Consequently, Mr C brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that West 
View hadnt done anything wrong. Mr C disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
We dont decide if a policyholder has made a fraudulent claim as thats a matter for the 
courts. As the investigator explained our role is to consider, taking all the evidence into 
account, was it reasonable for West Bay to rely on the terms and conditions of its policy with 
Mr C to repudiate his claim. Every insurer is entitled and indeed under a duty to investigate a 
claim before it is accepted, so I dont consider West Bay did anything wrong in investigating 
Mr Cs claim and seeking to validate it.
The relevant terms of the policy are as follows:
 
3.14 You must adhere to the terms and conditions of this policy at all times. If You 
make any Claim under this policy which is fraudulent or false or where there is 
collusion between You and the Third Party or any witness this policy shall be 
declared void and shall no longer apply.
And the fraud condition states the following:
Fraud condition
If you or anyone acting for you:
1. Knowingly makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under your policy;
2. Knowingly makes a false statement in support of a claim (whether or not the claim 
itself is genuine); or
3. Knowingly submit a false or forged document in support of a claim (whether or not 
the claim itself is genuine),
We will:
a. Refuse to pay the claim;
b. Declare the policy void, treating it as if it had never existed without any refund of 
premium; and
c. Recover any sums that we have already paid under the policy in respect of the 
claim and any previous claims.
We may also inform the police of the circumstances.
West Bay wrote to Mr C on 24 September 2021 listing out all the discrepancies it had found 
in the evidence Mr C had provided and it asked Mr C to explain them. Mr C responded and 
West Bay again wrote to Mr C on 16 November 2021 saying his answers hadnt explained 
things sufficiently and that as a result it was repudiating his claim.
These are some of the issues. West Bay couldnt validate Mr Cs purchase receipt as the 
address didnt exist and the company name of the seller didnt exist. Therefore, it said it was 
a false document. It also had concerns that the theft happened only 15 days after the policy 
started. Mr C said on buying his policy that he bought the van on 1 May 2021. But the 
purchase receipt said he bought the van on 3 April 2021. But DVLA said the change of 
keeper was from 17 May 2021. 
West Bay said Mr C couldnt evidence how he paid for the van either through his bank 
statements. Mr Cs evidence on that changed throughout West Bays investigations too so 
West Bay had difficulty in working out which account was true. West Bay is entitled to be 
satisfied of this hence it had every right to ask for bank statements showing how the car was 
paid for given how Mr C initially told West Bay how he had paid for it. Or indeed how much 
he paid for it as he initially said it cost him £3,500 and then he said it cost him £3,000.
West Bay also said Mr C said he parked his car outside the garage at 9pm, but the CCTV 
showing the theft taking place is timed at 6.13pm. Mr C said the garage told him the wires to 
the CCTV were cut making the clock go back to zero but the garage told West Bay the 
CCTV wires werent cut.
 
West Bay also found the van had previously failed its MOT on 22 February 2021 and again 
on 14 May 2021 and Mr C started his policy with West Bay on 14 May 2021. This is contrary 
to Mr C saying to West Bay his van was in mint condition.
West Bay said as Mr C couldnt clear up all the discrepancies, it felt it was reasonable to 
repudiate his claim. And I agree, given the number of discrepancies in the evidence 
provided. The fraud clause detailed above gives West Bay the ability to repudiate a claim in 
these circumstances.  The clause also permits West Bay to retain the premium paid to 
recover their costs in investigating Mr Cs claim. Therefore, I dont consider West Bay has 
done anything wrong. My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman