DRN-3153330
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society blocked transactions on his account and 
restricted the use of his debit card when he was abroad at the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr S travelled abroad for work in February 2020. As the country he was travelling to didnt 
generally accept card payments or allow cash machine withdrawals, Mr S says he made 
sufficient arrangements to access money for the duration of his intended stay. He also told 
Nationwide of his travel plans.
But towards the end of March 2020, Mr S decided to make arrangements to access more 
money in case his stay in the country became protracted as a result of the worldwide              
Covid-19 pandemic. However, on-line transactions to enable him to do this were blocked.  
The time line of events following this are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. 
Initially Nationwide restricted the use of Mr S debit card to CHIP and PIN transactions. But, 
given the circumstances of the country he was in, this prevented him accessing money in his 
account. Subsequently, Nationwide replaced Mr S card with a new one, which was sent to 
his UK address. This meant Mr S had to make arrangements for the card to be couriered to 
him as the postal service in the country he was in wasnt reliable and was impacted further 
by the pandemic. Mr S also had to contact Nationwide several times during these events 
which included him raising a formal complaint. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr S complaint. In summary, it referred to its terms and conditions 
which make provision for it to suspend a debit card if potential fraud is suspected. And it said 
it was its policy to issue a new card in these circumstances.
Unhappy with the response, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it and she thought it should be upheld. Overall, she didnt think 
Nationwide had any reason to think Mr S card had been compromised after he had passed 
security and confirmed the transactions were genuine. So, she said Nationwide should have 
fully unblocked Mr S card rather than issue a new one. As this didnt happen, she thought 
Mr S had suffered distress and inconvenience and additional costs. And she recommended 
that Nationwide should pay Mr S £150 in recognition of this.  
Mr S didnt think this went far enough. He said that his parents had to organise for his card to 
be couriered to him. But this caused them distress and inconvenience as they were shielding 
due to the pandemic. The investigator acknowledged the difficulties Mr S parents had faced, 
but explained she could only award compensation to an eligible complaint  in this case,     
Mr S.
Nationwide didnt accept the investigators recommendations either. It said that the second 
block was placed on the card after Mr S had discussed the first block (which was removed) 
with it. And that Mr S didnt respond to a text it sent him asking him to call following the 
second block. 
Our investigator thought about this, but she didnt change her view on the outcome of the 
complaint. She said Mr S had made two transactions  one straight after the other, so 
Nationwide should have been aware that the second transaction was also genuine. 
As neither party agreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mr S to have discovered that his 
transactions had been blocked. But fraud prevention systems are used by businesses to 
protect customer accounts from potential unauthorised access. And, while I can appreciate 
that in this instance it may have been the case that Nationwides system was triggered 
unnecessarily  as Mr S had already told Nationwide that he would be abroad and he also 
confirmed his transactions genuine in the call that followed, Im satisfied that the blocking of 
Mr S card wasnt a deliberate or malicious act in any way. 
What this service would expect is that Nationwide should have processes in place to enable 
a customer to quickly regain access to their account, if the precautionary action of blocking 
the account had been superseded by contact with the customer confirming the transactions 
triggering the block were genuine. 
And here, Mr S contacted Nationwide, passed security and confirmed the transactions were 
genuine. Nationwide also lifted the block on the card initially, so Im persuaded that 
Nationwide was satisfied that it was dealing with its genuine customer.
I can see that there was some confusion as Mr S didnt respond to a text Nationwide sent 
about the second transaction it had concerns over. But Mr S has explained that he didnt 
respond to the text as he thought it was delayed text and his call to Nationwide had           
pre-empted it. I think this explanation is plausible in the circumstances. But, in any event,     
Mr S went on to complain to Nationwide. So, while he didnt respond directly to the text, he 
was in contact with Nationwide about the transactions on his account soon afterwards. 
But I think the crux of this complaint is about Nationwides decision to restrict the use of     
Mr S card to CHIP and PIN transactions only and then to replace the card with a new one, 
which was sent to his UK address. 
I can understand why - for safety reasons, Nationwide would have policies in place to restrict 
card usage and then to issue a replacement card. In addition, I think its generally 
reasonable for a new card to be sent to the address it holds on record for the account holder. 
But these options werent workable remedies in Mr S circumstances. Mr S wasnt in the UK 
and his return was impacted by the pandemic. And CHIP and PIN transaction werent widely 
accepted in the country he was in. Overall, I think - given both Mr S location and the on-
going pandemic, Nationwide could have done more to help him. I havent seen anything that would make me think that Nationwide was prevented from lifting 
the block on Mr S card  apart from its own policies and procedures. But these procedures 
are in place when it thinks a card has been compromised. But here, Mr S had passed 
security and confirmed the transactions to be genuine. So, given the circumstances in this 
complaint, I think Nationwide should have removed the block on Mr S original card in its 
entirety.   
As it did not do so, Im satisfied this caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. And Mr S 
incurred the cost of arranging the new card to be couriered abroad. So, overall, I agree with 
our investigator that compensation is due. As the investigator has explained, compensation 
is only payable to eligible complainants  in this case the account holder, Mr S. And I think a 
compensation payment of £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience Mr S suffered and the costs incurred.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Nationwide Building Society should now pay Mr S £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience and costs incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman