DRN-4128253
The complaint
Miss P and Mr T complain about Fairmead Insurance Limited (FIL) and their 
recommendation that they include VAT on his buildings sum insured total.
Mr T has acted as the main representative during the claim process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Miss P and Mr T as 
Mr T throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr T took out a home insurance policy through a broker, underwritten by FIL. As part of the 
renewal process in August 2022, Mr T was required to provide a buildings sum insured total. 
But Mr T was unhappy that he was advised to include VAT within this amount, when he felt a 
total rebuild of his property would be exempt from VAT charges. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr T didnt think FIL were fair to expect Mr T to include VAT on top of the total amount it 
would cost to completely rebuild his home. And he felt this was stipulated to increase the 
premium he paid. Mr T was unhappy that, should he be required to make a claim on his 
policy, and he didnt include the VAT element, any claim he made would be settled 
proportionately on the basis he was underinsured. So, he wanted FIL to confirm he only 
needed to provide the total rebuild cost, less VAT. And, that should he need to make a claim, 
any settlement wouldnt be settled proportionately.
FIL responded to the complaint through their agent and didnt uphold it. They thought the 
advice provided to Mr T was fair, considering each claim is settled on its own individual 
circumstances. They explained that, although VAT isnt charged on a full rebuild, it would be 
charged in other situations where a building isnt completely destroyed and so, this is why 
they recommended VAT be included. FIL also explained Mr T would be able to cancel the 
policy should he remain unhappy. Mr T was unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained it isnt our role 
to state how a customer should answer questions asked by an insurer. And they were 
satisfied that FIL had provided fair and reasonable advice, based on the evidence and 
reasoning they had been provided. So, they didnt think FIL needed to do anything more on 
this occasion.
Mr T didnt agree. He maintained his belief the advice FIL gave regarding whether to include 
VAT or not was intended to increase the premium price. And he expressed his unhappiness 
with FILs response to his complaint, and how long this response took to be sent. Mr T also 
sent into documentation from another insurer, which he felt supported his position. As Mr T 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T. I appreciate Mr T feels 
strongly about the situation and Ive carefully thought about his comments and why he feels 
hes been unfairly treated. This includes the comments hes made about scenarios that may 
have happened, had he needed to claim on the policy in question.
But crucially, Mr T has not needed to claim on the policy. So, these scenarios remain 
hypothetical. Our service is unable to award compensation for any hypothetical scenario as 
were only able to consider the direct impact caused to customers. Because of this, while I 
understand why Mr T is unhappy that he may have been deemed to have been underinsured 
if he made a claim, at this moment he hasnt as he hasnt claimed. Mr T would be able to 
complain about the way FIL settles a claim in the event he makes a claim and is unhappy 
with FILs handling of it.
Our service is also unable to consider Mr Ts concerns about FILs handling of his complaint 
as this is an unregulated activity and so outside of our jurisdiction. Because of this, the 
timescale in which FIL responded, and the tone of FILs communication when they did 
respond, isnt something Ive thought about any further.
What our service is able to do is consider the advice FIL has given, and actions theyve 
taken, and decide whether we think this was both fair and reasonable. We dont set the rules 
and regulations insurers are expected to work within. These are set by the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, my decision will not be providing a definitive 
answer on whether a customer, in this case Mr T, should or should not apply VAT to the 
buildings sum insured total amount. If Mr T would like a definitive answer, or clarification 
around this, he should contact the FCA directly.
Ive seen FILs explanation for the advice they provided to Mr T, suggesting the VAT should 
be included on the total amount. And Ive seen a white paper they provided to support this 
stance, which I think makes it reasonably clear there is no set approach for all home 
insurance policies stating whether VAT should be applied or not.
What the white paper does make clear, alongside the document provided by Mr T, is that 
although total rebuild costs for a home are zero rated for VAT, this isnt the case for other 
costs that may be occurred during this process. This includes things like legal fees, 
demolition costs as well as landscaping and architect fees. So, I think that there may be a 
possibility in certain circumstances that, where a complete rebuild is needed, the total costs 
of this would exceed the rebuild cost of the home itself. So, I can understand why FIL would 
state the total insured amount should included VAT, to ensure Mr T had the appropriate 
cover to ensure all costs fall within the limits of his policy.
I dont think Ive seen any evidence that suggests to me FIL gave this advice maliciously, 
with the sole intent of increasing the premium they received from Mr T. While I understand 
why Mr T would assume this to be the case, I need to see substantive evidence that 
persuaded me this was FILs intention, more likely than not. And I dont think this is the case 
here. I also note that FIL have offered to cancel the policy and provided Mr T with a pro-rata 
refund so he can obtain insurance elsewhere that he feels is more suitable. And they have 
stated they wouldnt charge Mr T any administration fees to complete this cancellation. I 
think this shows FIL attempting to act fairly, given Mr Ts concerns.Because of all the above, I dont think Im able to say FIL have acted unfairly on this 
occasion. Nor can I say the stance theyve taken is unreasonable. Because of this, I dont 
think FIL need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss P and Mr Ts complaint about Fairmead 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman