DRN-3234847
The complaint
Mr D complains that his car was damaged whilst repairs were being carried out after he 
made a claim on his car insurance with Soteria Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr D has car insurance underwritten by Soteria. He made a claim after his car was involved 
in an accident in late December 2020. Mr D wasnt at fault in the accident. Soteria accepted 
the claim and arranged for repairs to be carried out.
Mr D says that when the repairer picked up the car, a check was carried out to identify any 
and all damage to the car. He has a signed checklist from this inspection, which shows 
damage to the rear of Mr Ds car  damage which had resulted from the accident in late 
December 2020  but no other existing damage.
Whilst the repairs were being carried out, the garage contacted Mr D to advise that the car 
had other damage towards the front of the vehicle. This hadnt been caused by the accident. 
Mr D told them he hadnt ever noticed that damage  and the check carried out when the 
vehicle had been picked up didnt mention it.
Mr D said the damage must have been caused whilst the car was in transit to the garage or 
whilst the repairs were being carried out. The garage denied that and said the damage was 
pre-existing.
When Mr D raised this with Soteria, they said the damage pre-existed the recent accident 
and they asked the garage to return the car to Mr D. When it was returned, the damage at 
the rear of the car caused by the accident had been fixed. The damage at the front of the car 
had not.
Mr D complained to Soteria. He wanted them to fix the damage to the front of his car. When 
they maintained their position that the damage pre-existed the accident, Mr D brought his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and asked Soteria to arrange an independent expert 
inspection of the car. This was carried out in late August 2021 and the report is dated 
20 September 2021.
Because that report was inconclusive about when the damage occurred, our investigator 
took the view that Soteria should split the cost of the repairs with Mr D and asked them to 
pay him around £635.
Soteria disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. Mr D also disagreed 
with the proposed outcome.
Because I also disagreed with the view taken by our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision on this case. This allowed both Mr D and Soteria a chance to comment on my 
thinking and/or provide any new evidence or information before I make my final decision, 
which is this services last word on this case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a relatively simple case. It hinges entirely on whether the damage to the front 
of Mr Ds car happened before the accident in December 2020 or after that, when it 
was in the care of the garage who carried out the repairs. If the latter, then Soteria 
should pay all the costs of the repairs to the damage at the front of the car, given that 
their contractor caused that damage.
The evidence in support of Mr Ds position  that the damage was caused by the 
garage  is the checklist completed when the car was inspected before it was picked 
up to be taken to the garage. This clearly noted damage to the rear of the car  
resulting from the accident  but no damage elsewhere.
The evidence that the damage was pre-existing comes from the technicians and 
experts whove been involved in this case.
The garage which carried out the repairs reported the damage to Soteria in early 
January 2021. They said:
The kink in the wing has spilt the paint and rust has formed under the paint 
causing blistering. This 100% proves the damage has been there for some 
considerable time.
That provides a coherent and plausible explanation of what the damage is and when 
it might have been caused. That therefore carries some weight, although as Mr D has 
pointed out, the garage might have a vested interest in maintaining that the damage 
was pre-existing.
Soterias senior in-house expert then checked the view offered by the garage by 
examining photographs of the damage the garage sent to Soteria. He then replied to 
say he agrees entirely which the garages view. He says the photographs clearly 
show advanced corrosion, which shows that the damage pre-dated the accident.
Again, Soterias expert isnt entirely independent  although I would point out its very 
likely the garage (rather than Soteria) would have been asked to pick up the bill if 
Soteria had accepted that the damage had been caused by the garage.
When we asked Soteria to arrange an independent inspection of the vehicle, in mid-
2020, the accident was some six months or more in the past. Unsurprisingly perhaps, 
the independent expert said:
The presence of corrosion would suggest there is some age to the damage, 
however, we are unable to comment as to how long ago the damage may 
have occurred.
In other words, the car had now (in August 2021) rusted around the damage, but that 
may have happened before the accident or afterwards, given the passage of time.It was on this basis that our investigator said that Soteria should pay half the repair 
costs. She thought at that point that it was impossible to make a judgement about 
when the damage was most likely to have occurred.
In response, Soteria said theyd now sent the original photographs of the damage to 
the independent expert. And theyd asked whether the experts opinion would change 
based on that evidence, rather than the physical inspection of the car carried out too 
late to be evidentially useful.
The independent expert replied with the following statement:
I have been furnished with an image showing the right hand front wing 
highlighting corrosion present and I am advised that this was taken prior to 
works being undertaken. This would suggest the corrosion was present.
Taking all of that evidence into account, there are two possible explanations of and 
when the damage occurred, and I have to decide which is most likely. Either the 
damage was pre-existing and was missed at the inspection when the garage picked 
up the car for repair. Or it was caused by the garage and the three experts  with 
varying degrees of independence  are either lying or mistaken.
We reasonably often deal with cases where concrete evidence  to prove one 
version of events or another conclusively  isnt going to be available for one reason 
or another. It may never have existed or, as in this case, it may be impossible to 
obtain given the passage of time. We cant go back in time and carry out an 
inspection of the car as it was in January 2021.
In such cases, we have to come to a conclusion based on what is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities, given the evidence and information we do 
have.
In this particular case, I cant know for sure what happened. But Im satisfied its 
much more likely that the damage was pre-existing and hadnt been noticed by Mr D 
and wasnt picked up when the inspection was carried out when the car was taken for 
repair.
The inspection may have been carried out badly and without due care and attention, 
but that doesnt mean Soteria should pay for repairs to damage which other evidence 
suggests was pre-existing.
The evidence available from the relevant time is the photographs the garage took. 
Three experts  only one of which was ever in line to pick up the bill if the damage 
had been caused by the garage and one of whom was entirely independent  all 
agree that the photographs show corrosion and pre-existing damage.
So, unless I receive more evidence or information to change my mind, in response to 
this provisional decision, Im minded not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
I should mention that since he made his complaint to Soteria and to us, Mr D has 
raised another issue about the warning lights on the dashboard of his car. He says 
some of these  including brake warning lights - have been appearing for no good 
reason. He thinks this may be due to further damage caused by the garage when 
they repaired the rear of his car.The rules under which we operate only allow us to look into a complaint if the 
financial business concerned have first had an opportunity to investigate and respond 
to the customer.
Theres nothing to suggest to me that Mr D has ever raised this particular complaint 
with Soteria. If he has, he can provide evidence of that in response to this provisional 
decision.
If he hasnt, hed be entitled to do so now and provide them with any evidence he has 
to suggest that the later issues with his warning lights were anything to do with the 
repairs carried out by Soterias contractor. And if hes not happy with Soterias 
response, he would be entitled to make a further complaint to us.
On that basis, my provisional decision was that Mr Ds complaint should not be upheld.
The responses to my provisional decision
Soteria havent responded to my provisional decision. Thats not too surprising given that I 
suspect they agree with it.
Mr D did respond. Initially he asked whether he could now accept our investigators view and 
have Soteria pay half the cost of the repairs to the front wing of his car. We pointed out that 
the case was now with an ombudsman  at Soterias request and Mr Ds  and that we 
couldnt now revert to an earlier stage of the process.
He then sent further copies of the checklist completed at the inspection when the car was 
collected. Along with further copies of the photographs of the damage towards the front of 
his car, which the garage sent to him a day or so after theyd taken his car in for repairs.
Mr D says the inspection of the car when it was picked up was thorough, complete and 
accurate  and wasnt carried out without due care and attention, as I said it may have been 
in my provisional decision. 
He also says the photographs of the damage to the front of his car do not show rusting and 
blistered paint, as the garage originally suggested. He maintains that the damage wasnt 
there when the car was taken away and must have been caused by the garage.
Mr D has also very helpfully confirmed that he doesnt expect the issues with his dashboard 
warning lights to be considered as part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked again at the information Mr D has now provided  and having considered 
again all the evidence we have on file  I havent changed my decision on this case. I know 
Mr D will be disappointed, but Im not going to uphold his complaint.
Mr D hasnt provided any new evidence. Hes simply sent documents and photographs we 
already had before I made my provisional decision. 
I know  and knew before my provisional decision - that the checklist doesnt note any 
damage towards the front of Mr Ds car. And I know that is evidence to support his assertion 
that there was no such damage. But as I said in my provisional decision, I have to make a judgement about whats most likely 
to have happened given all the evidence we have to hand.
I am not an expert and Im not in a position to examine the photographs of Mr Ds car in 
forensic detail and explain what the damage is and how long its been there.
What I do know is that three separate experts - at least one of whom has no axe to grind at 
all in this case  have looked at those photographs. And they have all concluded that the 
damage shown is of some age  certainly longer than the day or so the car had been in the 
garages possession  at the time the photographs were taken.
As I explained in my provisional decision, we do sometimes have to make decisions based 
on evidence and information that doesnt lead us to an absolutely certain conclusion. In this 
case, Im satisfied, on the basis of the evidence from the three experts, that its more likely 
on balance that the damage occurred before the car was taken in for repairs by the garage. 
It is possible that Im mistaken and that the garage did cause damage to Mr Ds car. And in 
that case, I can see why Mr D would feel frustrated and annoyed. But I cant see any 
compelling evidence now to allow me to come to that conclusion - or to decide thats the 
most likely explanation of the damage. We can never know for sure, but taking all of the 
evidence in to account, it seems more likely that the damage existed before the garage 
picked up the car for repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman