DRN-2530403
The complaint
YMr A complains that a car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited (CBL) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to cancel his agreement and 
reject the car.
What happened
Mr A says he took out his Conditional Sale Agreement in May 2019 for an eight-year-old car 
with 57,362 miles on the clock. He says prior to taking out the agreement he had the car 
inspected, some faults were found, and he agreed as part of the sale to have these rectified.
He says three weeks after getting the car back from having the pre-sale issues addressed, 
he experienced problems with the gearbox, oil around the turbo, rumbling from the front 
suspension wheel bearings, traces of oil and a malfunctioning air bag. He says he asked to 
reject the car but CBL wouldnt let him.
CBL said it organised an independent inspection which concluded, on the balance of 
probabilities, that faults identified in the inspection were not present or developing at the 
point of sale.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She issued two views in which she found the 
pre-sale inspection only found an issue with the oil senior and other minor issues which the 
dealership agreed to resolve.  She was persuaded by an independent report that 
subsequent issues were wear and tear related not ones that were present or developing at 
the point of sale for which CBL was responsible.
CBL accepted this view but Mr A didnt. He said the dealership had taken the vehicle back 
twice to do the pre-sale agreed work and Mr A says he was subsequently told that work had 
been of a poor standard. Mr A said as soon as he got the car back from the pre-sale agreed 
work, he started having problemsour text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A feels strongly about his complaint and I do understand that. I should make it clear that 
in this decision I am only looking at if Mr As car was fit for purpose when he got it. I 
understand there are other issues that Mr A has subsequently raised that are being dealt 
with separately.
I am conscious Mr A bought a used car and as such could reasonably expect it to have more 
wear, tear and repair issues than with a new car. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit 
for purpose at the point of sale.
If issues arise within the first six months of ownership, we usually say its the business 
responsibility to investigate and identify if any issues were present or developing at the 
points of sale. CBL arranged an independent inspection report which is what I would have 
expected it to do.
I have carefully considered the findings of the independent report alongside the report that 
Mr A arranged himself.
The independent report carried out in October 2019 noted a number of issues  these 
included various fault codes relating to electrical systems which it stated could occur at any 
point, a rotational  grating  type noise under the  steering oscillation suggesting the steering 
rack and or pump required attention and, a sharp slight judder and bang from the 
transmission under drive take up.
I can appreciate given this list of issues that Mr A might reasonably feel that his car wasnt fit 
for purpose. However, the report didnt find any present or developing point of sale issues, it 
concluded that on the balance of probability that the faults identified were down to general 
wear and tear.
I have compared that to the report Mr A arranged himself  in August 2019. It noted the repair 
work carried out in July 2019, which I understand was work Mr A agreed would be carried 
out on the car after a test drive prior to getting it
I understand there is some dispute as to whether all the agreed work was carried out or not . 
Mr A has told us it was agreed brake pads and sensors would be replaced and werent. I 
have no evidence to show what work was agreed as part of the sale  so its difficult for me to 
judge whether all this work was completed or not . We have tried to get further information 
from the business on this but have been unable to do so. However, I think the reports are of 
more value since they cover the more serious issues that occurred later on.
The rest of Mr As report noted several issues similar to  those noted in the independent 
inspection report  such as the noise under drive take up which it noted could be a transfer or 
gear box issue. It also noted some other issues such as worn rear tyres however we would 
normally consider tyres to be wear and tear items not issues that in themselves would justify 
rejection of a vehicle.
Importantly Mr As report made no comment on whether any of the issues it noted  could 
have been present or developing at the point of sale. Our investigator contacted the 
company that carried out this report. It confirmed that the initial issues identified during the 
test drive period were just the oil senor and minor issues, that the  initial inspection did  not 
identify any of the  other issues that subsequently arose specifically noting that the  potential 
gearbox issue wasnt present when it first inspected the car prior to sale. 
The company did comment that  it wouldnt  expect a transfer or gearbox issue on this car or 
for a gearbox to need replacing when less than  90-100,000 miles had been driven as was 
the case here. I have considered these comments very carefully, but  I must balance them 
with the conclusions from the independent report that CBL commissioned which was a 
detailed report and made no such comments. 
For me to conclude that CBL should provide some redress to Mr A  I understand his car 
has now been repossessed - I would need to be persuaded that there was a point of sale 
issue for which CBL was responsible. Unfortunately, I dont feel I have any evidence to show 
this. Its unfortunate that Mr A has the problems he had but given the independent report 
concluded the issues were likely wear and tear I dont feel that a comment on the likelihood 
of  a gearbox needing to be replaced or not from the company Mr A got a report from is sufficient to overturn the conclusions of the independent report  particularly since the 
company Mr A used  also confirmed that the issue wasnt present on the pre-sale inspection.
Finally, Mr A has commented that he asked to return the car after the first repairs failed. I 
have no evidence to confirm Mr A asked for this . If he wanted to reject the car on the basis, 
he has told us it took more than one attempt to rectify the agreed pre-sale issues I dont think 
that would have been reasonable as those issues were quite minor ones. In terms of the 
other issues Mr A has had as I have concluded there is no evidence these were present or 
developing at the point of sale rejection on those grounds would  also not  have been 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman