DRN-4380132
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release mortgage that Mrs G hold with more 2 life Ltd 
(M2L). She took it out in 2018, and then in 2022 applied for a further advance. M2L refused 
the further advance application, saying that a change of lending policy meant that Mrs Gs 
house (which has two kitchens) was no longer considered acceptable security. Mrs G says 
this has left her trapped in a mortgage that she could only exit at high cost.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs G and M2L. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the key events, rounding 
the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs G took the mortgage out in 2018; she borrowed £155,000. Whilst not required under the 
mortgage terms, Mrs G by her own choice then repaid about £50,000 of the original 
borrowing. In September 2022, Mrs G applied for a further advance of £50,000. After having 
the property valued afresh, M2L refused to lend. The new valuation had identified the 
property as having two kitchens. The presence of two kitchens had also been listed in the 
2018 valuation, but M2L said there had been a change of lending policy. 
When the complaint came to us, Mrs G asked her broker, a firm Ill call L, to help her present 
her case. L provided us with an email from M2L which revealed that far from being a policy 
change, the presence of two kitchens in a property was already an exclusion from M2Ls 
lending policy when the original mortgage was granted in 2018. In other words, Mrs G had a 
mortgage she should never have granted in the first place.
The investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Whilst recognising that M2L was 
under no obligation to grant further lending, he pointed out that Mrs G was in her current 
position due to an error on M2Ls part in the first place. He said M2L should reconsider the 
further advance application, but disregarding the reason it had refused it the first time. He 
also said M2L should pay Mrs G £250 compensation for her time, trouble and upset.
Mrs G broadly agreed, albeit she thought the compensation could have been higher given 
the impact on her of not being able to borrow the extra money. Conversely, M2L agreed to 
the £250 compensation but then listed several other factors that would cause the further 
advance application to be refused in any event. 
Our investigator pointed out that all of the additional objections M2L was now raising were 
also present in 2018, and M2L knew, or should have known, about them at the time. He 
expanded his view of the case to say M2L should reconsider the further advance application, 
excluding all of the reasons it had listed, and in the event it was still rejected, M2L should 
then meet the cost of Mrs G moving her mortgage to another lender.
M2Ls position remained unchanged, so the case has come to me to decide whats fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M2Ls primary arguments appear to be that the original offer made it clear that future lending 
wasnt guaranteed, and that this service cannot order it to lend. The first point is true, and 
the second is too, up to a point, but both are entirely irrelevant here. Our investigator has 
always made it clear that future lending wasnt guaranteed, and at no time has he told M2L it 
must lend. What he has done, and what I am now doing, is seeking to place Mrs G, as far as 
practicality allows, in the position she would now be in, but for errors and omissions on 
M2Ls part.
My starting point here is that no one, is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve 
borrowed before, theyre not automatically entitled to do so again. But a lender must treat 
customers fairly. In the context of an application for borrowing, that means assessing it fairly 
in accordance with its lending criteria and appetite for risk, and being mindful of what 
regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made 
public.
The overarching problem here is not that M2L refused the further advance in 2022; its that it 
granted the original mortgage in 2018. Due to M2Ls failure to apply its lending criteria and 
appetite for risk fairly in 2018, Mrs G now finds herself with a mortgage that offers her zero 
prospect of future borrowing. That is in complete contrast to what M2L said in the 2018 
mortgage offer, which was, in essence, that further borrowing was possible but not assured.
If M2L had still lent the money it did in 2018, but had said in the offer that under no 
circumstances would any future borrowing be granted, Im satisfied Mrs G would not have 
taken the mortgage up with M2L but would have looked elsewhere for her lifetime mortgage, 
if only to preserve the possibility of future borrowing. As it is, Mrs G finds herself in a position 
where, just to restore the possibility of future borrowing, shell be forced into the 
time-consuming and costly process of re-mortgaging to another lender. 
As that is solely as a result of M2Ls shortcomings in 2018, Im satisfied this complaint 
should be upheld. Im also satisfied that our investigator correctly identified a two-stage 
process for M2L to remedy the situation; firstly 
by revisiting Mrs Gs application for further lending at the same time disregarding any of 
the exclusion factors that already existed in 2018;
and if that still failed:
by covering all of the reasonable costs Mrs G would incur to move her mortgage to 
another lender.
That leaves the question of compensation. I appreciate why Mrs G thinks it should be higher 
than £250, given the financial impact on her of not having access to the extra funds the 
further advance would have freed up. However, thats not something I can factor into the 
award, as it would beg the assumption that Mrs G was assured of receiving the extra borrowing. That was never guaranteed with M2L, and for clarity, wont be with any new 
lender Mrs G might end up moving to.
That is not to say that some compensation isnt justified. It very much is, not least because of 
M2Ls attempts to conceal its original mistake by referring to a policy change when there 
hadnt been one in the period since the mortgage was granted. In all the circumstances, 
I consider £250 to be fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering more 2 life Ltd to do one of the 
following:
revisit the application disregarding any of the exclusion factors that already existed in 
2018, and mean that the property fails its lending criteria. If the application is accepted 
lend Mrs G the additional £50,000 at the same rate she would have been eligible for in 
September 2022; or
in the event Mrs G is successful in securing a re-mortgage within six months of accepting 
this final decision (assuming she does);
1. waive any early repayment charge or other exit fees on redemption of the current 
mortgage;
2. subject to Mrs G providing the relevant evidence, reimburse all costs associated 
with the re-mortgage transaction, including but not limited to, broker fees, legal 
costs and lender product fees;
3. using Office for National Statistics (ONS) or an equivalent accredited data 
source, on life expectancy for people sharing Mrs Gs demographic 
characteristics, assess the likely duration  and resulting notionally forecast 
repayment date  of the current mortgage; 
4. using the figure that results from 3 above, calculate the interest that would have 
accrued on the current mortgage at 4.52% up to the notionally forecast 
repayment date;
5. using the figure that results from 3 above, calculate the interest that will accrue 
on Mrs Gs new mortgage at the interest rate charged by the eventual lender, up 
to the notionally forecast repayment date; and
6. pay Mrs G the difference between 4 and 5 above.
Regardless of which of the above remedies more 2 life provides, it must also pay Mrs G 
£250 compensation for her time, trouble and upset. I did consider awarding Mrs G more 
compensation if she ends up having to re-mortgage, but as the proposed remedy for that 
awards her, at 6 above, a lump sum in advance of potential future loss, I decided against 
doing so.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman