DRN-4311661
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled large cash withdrawals 
he wanted to make in branch. 
What happened
Mr J opened his Nationwide account in late February 2023. A CHAPS transfer for £71,000 
was received on 7 March 2023. On 8 March 2023 Mr J transferred £10,000 to another 
account and made a cash withdrawal of £10,000 in branch. On 9 March 2023 Mr J visited 
the branch again and explained he wanted to withdraw £20,000 in cash. Staff successfully 
completed a withdrawal of £10,000 cash but when they attempted the second it was picked 
up by Nationwides systems for further checks. 
Nationwide applied account restrictions and explained it had concerns about the potential for 
fraud. Evidence by way of bank statements and supporting information was requested from 
Mr J and provided the following day. Nationwide agreed to remove the account restrictions 
that were stopping Mr J making transfers and using his account. But Nationwide advised that 
it wouldnt approve any large cash withdrawals in the future. On 10 March 2023 Mr J was 
able to arrange for transfers totalling £40,000 to be made from his Nationwide account to 
another account with a different bank. 
Mr J complained and Nationwide issued a final response. Nationwide didnt agree it had 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by restricting Mr Js account and didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint. They thought Nationwide had 
acted in line with the account terms by declining the second cash withdrawal request for 
£10,000 on 9 March 2023 and applying account restrictions. During the investigation, 
Nationwide confirmed it had removed the restriction applied that meant no large cash 
withdrawals would be approved. But Nationwide explained that large cash withdrawals may 
be selected for additional reviews in the future. 
Mr J asked to appeal and said hed provided proof that his withdrawal requests were 
genuine. Mr J said that Nationwides decision not to approve any large cash withdrawals in 
the future was unfair. Mr J gave further detail concerning why he needed the funds and said 
he believed Nationwides actions were unfair and against the terms and conditions of the 
account. Mr J also advised he wanted Nationwide to refund the monthly account fees hed 
incurred. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand that Mr J had entirely genuine reasons to ask for the funds he transferred into 
the newly opened Nationwide account in cash. But Nationwide has made a number of points 
that I think reasonably explain why it took steps to restrict Mr Js account. Nationwides 
explained that Mr J opened his account at the end of February 2023 and that the first 
transaction was a CHAPS transfer in for £71,000. Mr J then transferred £10,000 and 
successfully withdrew £20,000 in cash over two transactions. It was when Mr J attempted 
the second withdrawal of £10,000 on 9 March 2023 that his account was flagged for further 
checks. I agree with Nationwide that the way Mr J was using his account was unusual. And I 
can see that the terms and conditions allow Nationwide to restrict account access and ask 
for additional information when it has genuine concerns about fraud. So whilst I dont doubt 
what Mr Js told us, Im satisfied Nationwide acted reasonably when it restricted Mr Js 
account and asked him for evidence. 
Mr J was quick to comply with Nationwides request and submitted the required evidence. 
Nationwide, in turn, looked at the information Mr J provided and removed account 
restrictions that meant he could use its online banking facility as well as make transfers out 
of his account. So whilst I understand Mr J was put to some inconvenience by Nationwide, 
Im satisfied it was seeking to protect his account when it applied the restrictions. And Im 
satisfied the restrictions were removed once Nationwide was satisfied with the information 
Mr J supplied. 
Nationwide advised Mr J that a restriction on large cash withdrawals would remain in place. 
And I can understand why Mr J was frustrated at Nationwides decision. But in July 2023 
Nationwide reviewed its decision again and decided to remove the large cash withdrawal 
restriction it had previously applied. That meant Mr J was able to use his account for cash 
withdrawals again, as hes told us he wanted to do. Im satisfied thats fair in the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint. 
In response to the investigator, Mr J said he wanted Nationwide to refund monthly account 
fees hes paid. But as I havent found that Nationwide acted unfairly or made a mistake and 
its confirmed the account restrictions have been removed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I 
havent found ground to tell Nationwide to refund fees hes paid or take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman