DRN-2814593
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin) chased her for payments 
for a phone she never received.  She would like more compensation than Virgin has agreed 
to pay.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: -
As both sides accepted our investigators view the only outstanding issue for me to 
consider is the level of compensation. Mrs S doesnt  feel the £250 in total Virgin has 
agreed to pay is enough.
I appreciate this matter has put Mrs S to some inconvenience. It must have been 
stressful being chased for payments for a product she never received.  And then 
when the matter was finally resolved with our investigators intervention Mrs S had to 
chase the compensation payment of £100 Virgin agreed to pay. Added to this it has 
taken some time to put in motion the update to her credit file.
With regards to the £100 payment Virgin has shown it did make this payment, by 
cheque, in November 2020. For some reason Mrs S didnt get it. it. Virgin has agreed 
to cancel this cheque and issue another which is what I would expect it to do.
Virgin has made a further payment of £150 for the delay in resolving Mrs Ss account 
after our investigator issued her view.  I understand Mrs S has received this payment. 
I think this was more than reasonable given Virgin has shown it did send the initial 
cheque for £100 so would have had no reason not to expect Mrs S not to have 
received it. Virgin has told us it has put in motion the update to Mrs Ss credit file, but 
it  has taken some time to do this
Looking at the whole of Mrs Ss complaint I do feel some compensation for the 
inconvenience is fair. But I feel the £250 Virgin has paid is more than reasonable in 
the circumstances. And whilst I appreciate a family member has helped Mrs S with 
her complaint, as our investigator has already explained, we can only award redress 
to Mrs S as Virgins customer not to a third party.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. .If it has not done so already Virgin Media 
Mobile Finance Limited should:-
Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay 
Remove any adverse credit information from Mrs Ss credit file
Ensure Mrs S has received the total compensation payment of £250
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman