DRN-2566091
The complaint
Mr B complains that Madison CF UK Limited acted irresponsibly by granting him loans that 
were unaffordable. 
What happened
In June 2017, Mr B took out a loan for £1,500 with Madison. It also provided him with top up 
loans in March 2018 and November 2018. 
Mr B later complained that the loans were unaffordable. He said he had to take other loans 
to get out of a debt cycle. 
Madison said it had asked Mr B a number of questions when he applied for the loan and had 
used industry standard verification checks to validate the information hed provided. It had 
also provided clear information about the cost of the loan. It was satisfied it had acted 
correctly in approving Mr Bs loan application.
Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought Madison 
had made adequate checks of Mr Bs financial situation and its lending decision was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think Madison should have 
contacted him for top ups so soon after his original loan and top up. Madison hadnt asked 
for wage slips to prove his income. He said Madison could see he had taken out a lot of 
payday loans from the previous year and even though they had been paid off, it was obvious 
that these loans were regular and straight after one another.
As Mr B disagrees with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr B could afford to repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Mr B before it agreed the first loan of £1,500 and also 
checked his credit file. On his application, Mr B gave his monthly income as £2,100. While 
Madison doesnt appear to have asked for wage slips to verify this, I think it was reasonable 
for it to rely on the information Mr B provided.
The expenses (rent, council tax, utilities, food and card and loan payments) listed on Mr Bs 
application added up to £1,230. This left him with a disposable income of £870. This 
information suggested the monthly repayments of £118.21 were affordable for Mr B. 
 
Mr B was committing to making monthly repayments for two years. So, I think it was 
reasonable that Madison would want to gather, and independently check further information 
about Mr Bs circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. It did this by checking his credit 
file. 
Mr Bs credit file showed his existing credit commitments were slightly higher than what was 
on his application. But the loan repayments still appeared to have been affordable, even 
once this had been taken into account. Mr B had said the purpose of the loan was for 
consolidation. So, I also think it was reasonable to conclude that payments to other creditors 
would have gone down once Madison had granted the loan.
Mr B says the frequency of the loans showing on his credit file should have been an indicator 
that he was too heavily reliant on clearing debts with loans. While Mr Bs credit file shows 
hed taken out several short term loans in 2016, the last of these appears to have been 
settled around six months before Madison granted the first loan to him. So, I dont think the 
credit file showed Mr B was heavily reliant on credit at that time.
 
I can also see from the credit file that Mr B defaulted on accounts with other creditors before 
Madison gave him the loan. But these appear to have been satisfied in 2014. Madison lends 
money to people whove had previous financial difficulties, so it wouldnt be fair to say that it 
shouldnt have approved the loan because of these. 
Before agreeing the top up loans, Madison asked Mr B for information about his income and 
expenditure again. Mr B indicated that his circumstances hadnt changed. Mr Bs monthly 
repayments increased to £145.40 in March 2018 and £164.04 in November 2018 as a result 
of the top ups. I think the income and expenditure information Mr B provided suggested 
these repayments were also affordable. 
Mr B appears to have kept up to date with his repayments on his previous loans with 
Madison. And the information on Mr Bs credit file also didnt show anything too concerning 
that should have prompted Madison to carry out further checks. 
Mr B says he doesnt think Madison should have offered him top up loans so soon after hed 
taken out his previous loans. But the top ups were used to consolidate his existing debt with 
Madison and provide a cash advance. While they increased the amount Mr B owed and his 
monthly repayments, the lending still appeared affordable for the reasons Ive explained. 
Overall, I think Madisons checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
And they showed the loans were affordable.
 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman