DRN-2118825
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) have not defended his claim against the 
third party driver, resulting in him having a fault recorded on his policy, and him paying the 
excess on the claim.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident on 4 December 2018. He was riding his motorbike scooter 
at the time, and the third party was driving a 4 x 4 car. 
Mr M says that he had stopped in a queue of traffic approaching a roundabout and had his 
feet on the floor when he saw the third party approaching in his rear mirror. He saw that the 
car was travelling too fast to stop and knew it would hit him in the rear. To avoid shunting 
into the car in front, Mr M decided on impact to steer his motorbike to his right across to the 
other side of the road and into a ditch. Mr M does not consider that he was at fault in the 
accident. He steered the bike across the path of an oncoming car. 
Immediately after the accident on 4 December 2018 the third party insurer contacted Mr M 
by phone and admitted liability. They followed this up in writing and advised that they would 
organise the repairs quickly. The third party insurer have since advised in enquiries that this 
admission was made in error, not because their insured had indicated liability to them. 
The bike was taken to the third party insurers preferred repairer for an estimate and was 
inspected by the third partys engineers on 12 December 2018. The engineers concluded 
there were two impacts. An initial impact on the rear left hand side which damaged the 
engine cover and a lesser impact from the front right, scratching the right side of the bike. 
On 18 December 2018 solicitor A was instructed to recover Mr Ms uninsured losses. 
On 27 December 2018 Zeniths motor engineer reviewed the report from the third party 
insurers engineers and authorised the repairs on behalf of the Zenith. 
In January 2019, the third party insurer wrote to Zenith and disputed liability after receiving 
the statement of an independent witness. The witness gave a very different account of 
events. The witness was in a vehicle travelling in the opposite direction to Mr M, and was the 
vehicle that he crossed in front of.  The witness states that she saw the bike coming towards 
her travelling at around 40-45mph and that it was trying to overtake the third party. She says 
that Mr M saw her coming and tried to pull back into his lane, but was too close and cut off 
the car, which sent him across the road in front of her car. She says that she braked and got 
out of the car and helped Mr M pick his bike up. He was uninjured and there was no visible 
damage to the bike
On 25 January 2019 Zeniths engineer considered the evidence including the third party 
engineers report and advised that the damage was not consistent with a rear impact as 
suggested by Mr M. Solicitor A advised that they would not pursue the matter further. 
Mr M disputed this and the insurer asked for a further engineers review in March 2019. The 
engineer again stated that there was no damage consistent with a rear impact. The number 
plate and back wheel were unaffected. 
Mr M complained again, and on 30 July 2019, one of Zeniths staff spoke to an engineer who 
had reviewed the original engineers report. He said that although the report didnt confirm a 
direct rear impact, the report showed rear left impact from behind/left hand side which could 
be consistent with either version of events. 
Zenith stood by their decision a issued a final response letter to Mr M on 30 July 2019. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ms complaint and decided that Zenith had acted 
fairly in their administration of Mr Ms claim. They had relied on the expert opinions of the 
engineers to reach a decision on liability and applied the subrogation clause in the policy.   
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint, and I will explain why below. 
What I have to decide is whether Zenith have acted fairly and reasonably in their decision 
not to defend Mr Ms liability any further. I cannot make a decision about whether Zenith 
should have pursued the claim further, or on liability, only how they made their decision, 
whether they considered all the available evidence, and whether their decision was fairly 
arrived at. 
I have carefully considered the statements provided by Mr M, the independent witness, and 
the reports by the engineers. I have also viewed the scene of the accident on google maps 
to gain an insight into where it took place. 
There are two very opposing accounts of events given in this case. Mr M says he was within 
his lane, and static, or almost static at the moment of impact. The witness says he was 
travelling at considerable speed and pulling back in after failing to overtake at the time of the 
incident.
In Mr Ms account, he claims to have been hit from the rear. Zenith have given less weight to 
Mr Ms account of matters because they say the original engineer has said there is no 
evidence of a direct rear impact. This is true. However, Mr M was facing away from the 
impact when it happened and he will have felt, rather than seen where he was hit. An impact 
on the left hand side of the rear, as noted by the original engineer, may have felt like a rear 
impact to Mr M, and as the second engineer has suggested, the damage could support 
either version of events. 
Zenith have decided not to defend liability further. They have considered the independent 
witness statement, and together with the engineers report, have decided that this 
combination of evidence would make it very difficult to defend liability in court which is 
whether any liability dispute would be settled.  Solicitors A who were acting for Mr M and 
Zenith in the claim were also of this view.  There is a clause in his insurance policy which allows Zenith to settle the claim for losses 
arising from the event on the policyholders behalf. This means they are not obliged to fight a 
claim unless they can see that there is sufficient merit in it. In Mr Ms case, in the face of the 
evidence available, Zenith did not consider that there was a strong enough possibility of 
succeeding to warrant taking it to court.  
I think that, on balance, Zenith have made this decision fairly and reasonably. The evidence 
of independent witnesses, where it is clear and unambiguous as in this case, is strong 
evidence. The account is also supported by the report of the examining engineer, and Zenith 
also asked for an opinion from one of their own engineers. Both engineers are in agreement 
that the damage is consistent with the description of events provided by the independent 
witness, and the second engineer confirms it could also be consistent with Mr Ms version. 
However, the independent witnesses evidence would mean they would be unlikely to 
succeed in defending this claim.   
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about what happened and I am grateful to him for the 
articulate way in which he has put forward his case. However, ultimately, I can only look at 
whether Zenith have made their decision fairly, and in this case I think they have. 
Trouble and upset
I can understand that this whole incident has been upsetting and stressful for Mr M. 
I note that there have been delays in Zenith dealing with his claim, and periods when 
communication has been poor, which will have added to Mr Ms stress.   
In their complaint response, Zenith have accepted they could have provided a better service 
and have paid £150 to Mr M for these failings. I consider that this is a fair figure for the 
delays and poor communication and would not change this award.   
 
My final decision
My decision is that Zenith Insurance plc do not need to do anything further. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman