DRN-3714765
The complaint
Ms O complains that a technical problem on IG Markets Limiteds platform prevented her 
from managing her Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading account. This led to IG Markets 
Limited liquidating her positions when she had insufficient margin to keep them open.  
What happened
In November 2021 Ms O had a number of open positions on the Wall Street market. At 
around 12:31 UK time, IG proceeded to close her open positions due to her account having 
insufficient margin to keep them open. 
IG looked into her concerns, but didnt agree to uphold her complaint. In summary it said:
At 12:31 on 5 November 2021 Ms Os account had around £34,751 equity (the 
difference between her cash balance and her running losses), and required margin of 
£17,340 to keep her positions open. As this was less than 50% of her account equity, 
it proceeded to close her open trades. 
It said shortly before this incident non-farm payroll data had been released which 
caused significant volatility in the market she was trading on, and increased her 
running losses. 
It had no record of Ms O attempting to close any trades before the closeout and its 
technical department had no reports of any IT errors. 
Ms O remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into her complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, she said that Ms 
Os terms allowed IG to take the action that it did. The terms said that IG could close or part 
close any open Transactions on an account if the account balance, taking into account 
profits and losses, was equal to or less than 50% of the clients total initial margin 
requirement to open the transactions. The investigator also concluded that there was 
insufficient evidence to substantiate Ms Os claims that she had been prevented from closing 
the trades herself. 
Ms O didnt agree. She said that she never consented to IG closing as many positions as it 
wanted to in order to clear her margin completely. She said that she wouldnt have 
complained if IG had only closed enough positions to restore her margin to 50%. She said 
thats what she tried to do herself but was unable to. She said that IG closed way more than 
necessary and this caused her financial losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into Ms Os submissions, and I can confirm Ive read her explanation of her difficult 
circumstances  Im very sorry to hear about what she has been going through. I understand 
why she has made the complaint that she has. 
However, my role requires me to act independently and impartially and to decide, within that 
remit, whether IG has acted fairly and reasonably. 
In this case, I agree with the investigator that there is insufficient evidence to show that IGs 
systems prevented Ms O from closing trades herself before she went into margin deficit. In 
the absence of such evidence, whilst Ive taken into account Ms Os testimony, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to hold IG responsible for a technical malfunction 
that I have little to no evidence for. 
The crux of Ms Os complaint is IGs approach to the closure of her positions, but here too I 
agree with what the investigator has said. The terms are clear that IG can close all or some 
open trades in situations where a client account has less than 50% of the required margin. 
And the rules as laid out in COBS 22.5.13 arent prescriptive about what a firm must do in 
those circumstances. They simply say that where a retail clients net equity falls below 50% 
of the margin requirement, the firm must close the retail clients positions on restricted 
speculative investments as soon as market conditions allow. This is what IG did, and this is 
what the terms say IG will do. Whilst I appreciate Ms Os reasons for saying that IG couldve 
done things differently, that isnt enough for me to say that it would be fair and reasonable to 
hold IG responsible for Ms Os losses (which had been incurred as a result of her trades, not 
something IG did or didnt do). Nor is her claim that she missed out on an improved price in 
this particular market, because thats not something either she or IG couldve known at the 
time. 
Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of Ms Os case, IG acted in line with the 
terms and its regulatory obligations by closing Ms Os open trades when her account fell 
below 50% of the margin she required. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman