DRN-2695886
The complaint
Miss J and Mrs L complain that Santander, trading as Abbey National, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Miss J and Mrs L have told us that in the 1980s they purchased their then home with the 
help of an endowment mortgage. They say that it was a condition of this mortgage that 
they had to take out critical illness insurance, the premiums for which were increased to 
£46 a month because of a medical condition which Mrs L was diagnosed to have by the 
insurers medical practitioner. 
In response to a complaint made by Miss J and Mrs L about the insurance connected with 
their mortgage, Santander told us about a MPPI policy in their names, the first premiums 
for this insurance were collected in 1992. There wasnt a single upfront payment for the 
MPPI. It was paid for monthly. We refer to this type of policy as a regular-premium policy. 
The initial cost of it was £18 a month. I dont know how much the MPPI would have paid 
out each month following a successful claim. Nor do I know how the benefit was split 
between Miss J and Mrs L. But the I think its likely that the payment that would have been 
made, had they both been off work, would have been at least the amount of their monthly 
mortgage payments. And Santander has told us that the payments would have been made 
for up to 12 months, in the case of a claim for unemployment. And for up to 36 months for 
accident or sickness. This decision deals only with the MPPI policy and not any other 
insurance products which Miss J and Mrs L may have taken out in connection with their 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint about this MPPI should be upheld. 
Miss J and Mrs L disagreed, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss J and Mrs Ls 
case.
Because the sale was so long ago, Santander no longer has any of the paperwork signed 
by Miss J and Mrs L. And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive 
had to make my decision on the basis of the information that I do have and what we know 
generally about the sale of MPPI policies. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the available 
evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below:
Because of the date on which Santander recorded the first premium being collected, I find 
its reasonable to assume that the policy was sold in 1992. As Miss J and Mrs Ls mortgage 
had been in place for several years by then, I find that it would have been clear to them that 
they didnt need to take out the policy in order to get the loan to buy the property. That is to 
say, that it was optional. Santander has told us that Miss J and Mrs L would have had to sign 
an application form for the MPPI. As there are records of the policy being in place, Im 
satisfied that its reasonable to assume that they signed such a form to consent to taking out 
the insurance.
Neither Miss J and Mrs L, nor Santander can tell us whether the policy was sold during a 
meeting, over the phone or by post. But, to be fair to Miss J and Mrs L, Santander has 
assumed that it advised them to take it. This means that Santander needed to have taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. Because of the time that 
has passed, I dont know what steps Santander actually took. But, in any event, I find that 
the MPPI was suitable. I say this taking into account what I know about Miss J and Mrs Ls 
circumstances and by reference to the terms and conditions which I think are likely to have 
applied to the policy, because:
As both Miss J and Mrs L were employed, between the ages of 18 and 65 and living 
in the UK, I think its more than likely that they would have been eligible for the 
policy;
Mrs L had had an operation and been diagnosed with a medical condition before the 
date I think the MPPI was sold. But, from what she has told us, these matters didnt 
affect her life-style. And I dont think she would have been put off taking out the 
insurance had Santander explained that she wouldnt be covered had she been 
unable to work for a reason arising from either of these. Further, I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Mrs L or Miss J would have been likely to have been 
adversely affected by any of the policys other main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone who was self -employed;
Neither Mrs L not Miss J were entitled to anything more than statutory sick pay or 
redundancy. And they havent told us about any savings or other insurance that 
would have helped them make their mortgage payments had they been off work just 
for a time because of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. (Critical 
illness cover pays out in different circumstances than MPPI.) So I find that the MPPI 
could have been of use to them;
I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for Miss J 
and Mrs L. In any event, had they later felt that they couldnt afford the policy, they 
could have cancelled it at any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly.
Santander had to give Miss J and Mrs L clear, fair, and not-misleading information about 
the main features of the MPPI, so that they could decide whether they wanted it or not. Its 
possible that the information Santander gave Miss J and Mrs L wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive found nothing on which to conclude that they didnt choose to take the 
policy and it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Miss J and Mrs L not been able to make their 
monthly payments on their mortgage, which was secured on their home.
So I conclude that Miss J and Mrs L havent lost out because of anything that Santander 
may have done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman