DRN-3038664
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Lloyds General Insurance Limiteds decision to record a marker 
under a fraud prevention database agency after it declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr B reported accidentally damaging his laptop outside his flat. Mr B 
said he dropped it on the drive walking to his garage to get his bike. The limit for Mr Bs 
claim was £1,000.
Mr B called Lloyds back in October 2019 as the costs to repair the laptop were likely to be 
more than £1,000. Under the policy terms, if Mr B had dropped the laptop further away from 
the boundaries of the home, the limit was £3,000. 
Mr B said he dropped the laptop outside a caf which wasnt in the boundaries of his home. 
Lloyds rejected Mr Bs claim and cited its fraud exclusion. It said in a follow up call Mr B 
changed the circumstances of how the damage occurred in order to benefit from the policy. 
Mr B complained about Lloyds decision but in November 2019 it didnt uphold it. 
In April 2021 Mr B complained to Lloyds as he discovered his credit had been affected by a 
marker it had recorded against him with a fraud prevention database agency. He was 
unhappy that Lloyds hadnt informed him of the marker in 2019.
In April 2021 Lloyds replied to Mr Bs complaint and explained that it had correctly recorded 
the marker due to its decision to decline his claim applying its fraud exclusion. It said the 
policy explained that it will share information with third parties to combat fraud and other 
financial crime. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. But he wanted us to look at Lloyds decision to 
decline his claim by applying its fraud exclusion too. He provided information to dispute its 
decision and said this directly links to his complaint about the marker being recorded.
Our investigator could see that Lloyds had given Mr B six months to contact us from 
November 2019 about the claim decision complaint. As Mr B hadnt contacted us within that 
time, the investigator explained that this service is unable to consider that complaint. But 
having made that decision  we could look at whether Lloyds had acted reasonably in 
applying the marker and if it had failed to inform him  as this was within our jurisdiction.
The investigator didnt find Lloyds had incorrectly applied the marker and thought the policy 
wording was sufficient in letting Mr B know how Lloyds would share information. So she 
didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr B didnt agree. He provided further information about the location of where he said he 
dropped his laptop to support his change of account in October 2019. 
Mr B says he can obtain CCTV footage to support his change of account to support his claim 
from September 2019. And with other evidence he has to show his location when the 
damage occurred, Mr B believes he can show Lloyds didnt carry out a proper investigation 
into his claim and therefore its decision was incorrect and the marker has been incorrectly 
recorded against him. 
Our investigator said she would review the CCTV footage Mr B says is available. 
As Mr B didnt agree with her view, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cannot look at all complaints. Lloyds replied to Mr Bs complaint about its 
decision to reject his claim citing its fraud exclusion on 12 November 2019. It wrote:
You have the right to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, free 
of charge  but you must do so within six months of the date of this letter. 
If you do not refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not have our 
permission to consider your complaint and will only do so in limited circumstances.
Having considered the information provided by Mr B, Im satisfied that our decision not to 
consider his complaint that Lloyds unreasonably declined his claim is a correct one. As it 
was over six months when Mr B contacted us, we cannot consider this complaint. 
I can consider Mr Bs complaint that he raised with Lloyds which it replied to in April 2021  
as Mr B brought this complaint to us in time.  
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds recorded a marker against him with a fraud prevention database 
agency. Hes also unhappy that Lloyds didnt make him aware of this when it rejected his 
claim in 2019. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of a short privacy notice which it says was provided with the 
policy booklet when Mr B bought the policy. Its full privacy notice is available on its website. 
And it says it also explains how it shares customer information in the automated voice 
recording when a customer calls to speak with them. The short notice reads:
How we use Fraud Prevention Agencies
The personal information we have collected from you and anyone you have a 
financial link with may be shared with fraud prevention agencies who will use it to 
prevent fraud and money laundering and to verify your identity. If fraud is detected, 
you could be refused certain services, finance or employment. Further details of how 
your information will be used by us and these fraud prevention agencies, and your 
data protection rights, can be found in our full privacy notice.
Lloyds was satisfied that the fraud condition had been breached. As Ive said, I cannot look 
at whether that decision was reached reasonably . But having made that decision as an 
insurer, Lloyds has a duty to make accurate records for fraud prevention purposes. So, they 
were entitled to notify the relevant agencies when they cancelled Mr Bs policy. I can 
understand that it might have come as a shock to Mr B to only discover the marker when 
applying for credit. But by taking out the policy with Lloyds Mr B agreed to its terms and conditions. So I dont think Lloyds needed to have done more to make Mr B aware of the 
fraud marker it recorded against him.
If Mr B is able to provide new evidence to dispute Lloyds decision to decline his claim, he 
will need to first provide that to Lloyds to consider. If he is unhappy with what Lloyds says 
about any new evidence, he can raise a new complaint with it  and we can look at things if 
Mr B is unhappy with Lloyds final response to any new complaint (subject to time limits and 
merits).
My final decision
I understand Mr B will be very disappointed. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman