DRN-3624125
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. The crux of Mr Js complaint is that he believes the advice 
was unsuitable for him and this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr J was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he met with NTM for advice. On 4 December 2017 NTM 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr J was 33 years old; he was married with children; 
he jointly owned his own home, which had an outstanding mortgage; he had no investments 
but had around £22,000 in cash-based savings; he had a very low to low attitude to risk 
(two boxes are ticked in the relevant section); and he wanted to retire at 57 on an income of 
£1,500 a month. NTM also carried out a separate assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, 
which appears to have resulted in deeming Mr J as an average or balanced risk investor.
In a report dated 11 December 2017, NTM advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into 
a personal pension and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of funds NTM deemed matched 
Mr Js attitude to risk. NTM sent the report to Mr J on 21 December 2017. In summary, the 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to provide Mr J with the 
control of his retirement affairs that he wanted; to provide better (lump sum) death benefits 
for his family; to enable Mr J to break ties with his employer; and to enable Mr J to have 
flexibility in retirement - the ability to vary his income and take lump sums.
Prior to the Time to Choose deadline of 22 December 2017, a file note records that Mr J 
chose to remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
In a further meeting with NTM on 3 January 2018 to discuss the recommendation, Mr J 
accepted the recommendation and sometime later, just under £83,000 was transferred to his 
new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr J complained to NTM, via our Service, about the transfer advice. Mr J said that 
he was told by the adviser that the BSPS2 wouldnt likely be viable in the long- term and it 
would eventually go to the PPF; he is paying on-going advice fees; and he is worried about 
the ups and downs of the investment and the exposure to risk.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events leading 
up to the Time to Choose exercise and Mr Js interactions with NTM, in summary it said, 
there was no evidence the adviser made any comment about the funding position of the 
BSPS2 as it did not exist at the time; while it appreciated the market falls of February 2020 
were of concern, it believed the adviser correctly communicated the nature of the 
recommended investments to Mr J; it said Mr J was aware of the fees, which he consented 
to in writing; and it concluded there was no case of mis-selling.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr J asked us to consider his complaint. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required NTM to pay compensation. In summary they said, the 
transfer wasnt financially viable because the growth rate required to match Mr Js DB 
scheme benefits wasnt likely achievable. They said Mr J was likely to receive lower 
retirement benefits as a result of transferring. Furthermore they said no analysis and critical 
yield was produced for a retirement age of 57 despite Mr J indicating this was his preferred 
retirement age. They also said there were no other compelling reasons to justify the transfer 
as being suitable  while Mr Js income need couldnt be fulfilled by his DB scheme (albeit 
there was no evidence this had been properly established), any flexibility requirement 
couldve been met from his workplace Defined Contribution (DC) pension scheme, his 
savings and his other DB pension; his pension was primarily designed to provide an income 
in retirement not death benefits; and his concerns about the scheme shouldve been properly 
addressed and managed. They said if suitable advice had been given, because Mr J hadnt 
opted into the BSPS2 by the 22 December 2017 deadline, Mr J wouldve likely remained in 
the scheme and moved with it to the PPF.
NTM disagreed. In summary, it said:
The investigator didnt address the complaint Mr J made but instead adjudicated on a 
complaint hed not made.
The investigator misunderstood the timeline of events and the options available to 
Mr J at the time of the advice.
The investigator mis-understood the level of benefits set out in the evidence.
The evidence does not support the apparent conclusion reached that Mr J wouldve 
done whatever NTM advised him to do  this contradicts NTMs understanding of 
Mr Js attitude at the time of the advice.
The investigator failed to give a balanced perspective to the use of flexible benefits to 
achieve Mr Js objectives.
The investigator failed to give appropriate weight to Mr Js circumstances and 
objectives.
The investigator failed to appreciate the rationale for NTMs advice.
There are serious flaws in the investigators approach to their assessment of the 
case.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind. They added that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service has an inquisitorial remit and it was clear that the heart of Mr Js 
complaint was about the suitability of the advice provided. They said they didnt agree that the appropriate critical yields were for the PPF at age 65  Mr J indicated he wanted to retire 
at 57. They said they didnt feel it necessary to refer to the hurdle rate  albeit it wasnt 
produced for the PPF  because it didnt accurately reflect the benefits Mr J was considering 
given up. They said they considered all of the evidence presented by NTM along with Mr Js 
recorded objectives and the applicable rules and guidance available at the time of the advice 
in arriving at their assessment  they had not held NTM to a later published standard. They 
said it was their understanding that Mr J held another DB pension although this wasnt 
crucial to the outcome of the complaint and their assessment didnt turn on this point.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.Firstly, Id like to address NTMs point about the investigator not addressing the complaint 
Mr J made but instead went on to consider the suitability of the advice, which was not a 
complaint Mr J had made.
As the investigator told NTM, our role is to look at the whole picture and think about what lies 
at the heart of a complaint. And I agree with the investigator in this case - I think the crux of 
Mr Js complaint is ultimately about the suitability of the advice he received to transfer his DB 
scheme pension benefits to a personal pension. Just because Mr J didnt, or perhaps 
couldnt articulate his complaint fully or use the language NTM might have expected him to 
use when complaining about the suitability of the advice, this doesnt mean we cant 
consider what we feel NTM shouldve looked at when it considered Mr Js complaint. To not 
consider the bigger picture would, in my view, not be treating Mr J fairly. I think our role is to 
do more than just look at a complaint as it's written or explained to us  what the investigator 
referred to as our inquisitorial remit. And it is for these reasons that Im satisfied it is 
appropriate for me to address what I believe lies at the heart of Mr Js complaint, which is the 
suitability or otherwise of the pension transfer advice Mr J received in 2017.
Financial viability
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Js existing 
BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice, Mr J didnt have the option to remain in 
the BSPS. And NTM understood this and documented as such  meeting notes from the 
fact-find meeting of 4 December 2017 record a discussion about the Time to Choose 
information and Mr Js decision whether to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the existing 
scheme to the PPF. So basing the analysis on the existing scheme was somewhat 
redundant and in my view wasnt helpful to Mr J.
I can see that when NTM met with Mr J in early January 2018 to discuss its recommendation 
as set out in its suitability report of 11 December 2017, it said that the only option for Mr J at 
this stage was to consider a transfer or move to the PPF. I understand this was because 
Mr J had decided to remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF. NTM indicated in its 
first meeting that it might not be able to complete its advice by the deadline of 22 December 
2017.
But the suitability report is dated 11 December 2017 some 11 days earlier. And given the 
TVAS is also dated 11 December 2017, it appears NTM had formulated its advice at this 
stage, so I think it ought to have been in the position to send its suitability report to Mr J on 
or very soon after 11 December 2017. I see no reason why NTM was not in a position to do 
so. I think in the circumstances NTM ought to have been mindful of the looming deadline and 
prioritised things to enable Mr J to make a properly informed decision taking account of all 
three of the options available to him  opt into the BSPS2, move to the PPF or transfer out. 
Because I think NTM was reasonably in a position to issue its advice to Mr J sooner, I think 
its analysis and advice should have taken into account the benefits available to Mr J through 
the BSPS2. 
While I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time, details of the scheme 
had been provided  the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual 
increases wouldve been lower. And in my view, because all of the communications sent out 
by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be 
met, I think it was reasonable for NTM to have factored the benefits available to Mr J through the BSPS2 into its analysis and advice so that he was able to make a properly informed 
decision. Ill come back to this point later on.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr J was 33 at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice paperwork that he 
wanted to retire at age 57. The TVAS report of 11 December 2017 set out the relevant 
critical yields. To match Mr Js existing scheme benefits at age 60 the critical yields were 
6.86% assuming Mr J took a full pension and 6.02% if he took a cash lump sum and a 
reduced pension. The critical yields to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 
60 were 5.73% and 5.53% respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr J remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases 
under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
Id add here too that, given NTMs advice was predicated on Mr J wanting to retire at age 57 
- notwithstanding my view that I dont think Mr Js retirement plans were in anyway set in 
stone as I will explain later on  I find it surprising NTM didnt produce critical yield figures 
based on a retirement age of 57. I think this wouldve been more meaningful and relevant to 
Mr J. The early retirement factor information was available in Mr Js Time to Choose pack, 
so I think it was possible for NTM to produce this analysis. Because of the shorter term to 
retirement, I think its likely the critical yields wouldve higher than those based on a 
retirement age of 60. I think this is further evidence that NTMs analysis wasnt helpful to 
Mr J.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.6% per year for 26 years to retirement (age 60)  it was the same per year for 23 
years to retirement (age 57). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
recorded balanced attitude to risk (Ill discuss this in more detail below) and also the term to 
retirement. In my view, there would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.
Here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 60 was 5.53%, which was based 
on Mr J taking a reduced pension through the PPF. It was 6.02% if Mr J took the same 
benefits at 60 through the existing BSPS. 
So, based on taking the same benefits at age 60 through the BSPS2, I think the critical yield 
wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 6.02%. At age 57, I 
think it would be likely higher than 6.02%. 
This rate was higher than both the discount rate and the regulators middle projection rate. Given this, I think it was clear that Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 at retirement by transferring out and as a 
result of investing in line with a balanced attitude to risk. The critical yields required to match 
the benefits available through the PPF were 5.73% and 5.53%, so I dont think the position 
was very different if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Overall, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Js benefits were reduced, he was 
unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By 
transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr J would be financially worse off in retirement. 
So based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Js best interests.
I can see NTM suggests too much weight has been placed on discount rates. I havent 
based my findings solely on this, but I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when 
seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the 
advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely 
to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using 
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses, like NTM, were free to use the discount rate as 
this was considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, Ive 
considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers 
were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Js attitude to investment 
risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out 
of the DB scheme.
NTM says the investigator failed to consider the hurdle rate, which it says is a useful tool to 
understand the level of risk with a personal pension. But the hurdle rate ignores any 
spouses pension benefit as well as increases in payment. So in my view, reference to this 
rate underplays the true value of the DB scheme benefits Mr J was considering giving up. I 
still consider reference to the critical yield gives a good indication of the value of benefits 
Mr J was considering giving up. I also think it is a relevant and important consideration here, 
particularly given Mr Js circumstances and the fact that I dont think he could realistically say 
with any certainty whether he would want to take a fixed regular income at retirement or not. 
Mr J wasnt expecting to retire for another 20 plus years  so its entirely possible that he 
would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement, which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the DB scheme.
NTM has also referred to the drawdown analysis  it says that the advice to transfer clearly 
demonstrated a financial benefit to Mr J from age 60 using the FCAs assumed growth rate 
of 5%: Mr J could replicate the benefits from his DB scheme and his fund would last beyond 
his life expectancy or he could take a greater initial income of £9,066 (increasing) which was 
sustainable to age 100.
Ive already said why I think the transfer was not financially viable and why I think there 
would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But to address 
NTMs point about Mr J being able to draw a higher initial income from age 60  firstly as I 
referred to above, Mr J indicated his preferred retirement age was 57, so I dont think NTMs 
reference to what income Mr J could take from age 60 is relevant here. The advice was 
predicated on a retirement age of 57. Secondly and in any event, the sustainable income of 
£9,066 to age 100 NTM refers to, assumes a consistent 5% annual growth rate. 
NTM has not shown for example how this might be impacted by factors such as periods of 
poor performance and/or increases in inflation  there is no stress testing. Furthermore this 
assumes that Mr J would be happy and it was suitable for him to take his pension benefits 
via drawdown. But Im not persuaded it was. Ill explain why.Notwithstanding my view that by adopting a balanced risk approach meant Mr J was likely to 
be worse of in retirement as a result of transferring, I have concerns about how NTM 
deemed Mr J was prepared to take an average or balanced approach to risk with this 
pension. In the fact-find document, its recorded that Mr J saw himself as a very low to low-
risk investor  both boxes are ticked in the relevant section of this form. The description of 
both risk categories are, in my view, reasonably clear and in plain easy to understand 
language, so I think Mr J wouldve likely understood them. This was not an assessment 
where answers to a series of questions are scored to arrive at an overall risk profile  the 
question asked of Mr J in the fact-find was a simple and direct one: Which statement reflects 
your attitude to risk. 
Given this, together with Mr Js lack of any prior investment experience, it leads me to 
believe a very low or low-risk approach was the true level of risk Mr J was prepared to take 
here.
Yet in the risk profile questionnaire, some of the answers Mr J gave conflict with the very low 
/ low-risk group he originally indicated he saw himself in, in the fact-find  albeit the first and 
in my view important question Mr J was asked still indicated he was a low risk taker. And 
this assessment appears to have resulted in categorising Mr J as an average or a 
balanced risk investor. It seems to me from the evidence presented that NTM talked up 
Mr Js risk profile to balanced as part of this separate risk profiling assessment and in its 
discussions with him to support or justify the advice to transfer. NTMs file note of the 
meeting of 4 December 2017 includes the following:
We discussed the RP which indicated that he had a Balanced ATR. In the FF he took a 
more cautious approach and when challenged confirmed that his short term savings were 
kept secure and he wanted to maintain this. However pensions cannot be accessed for 
many years and when considering investment rather than savings the RP gave a more 
accurate picture. We discussed risk and reward and the need to achieve a return large 
enough to build a suitable pension... It was agreed that we should work on the basis of a 
Balanced ATR.
And the file note from the 3 January 2018 meeting records:
[Mr J] confirmed that after reflecting he is happy to invest in a Balanced way as outlined in 
the report to get a suitable return. I confirmed that [Mr J] should not proceed unless he 
accepts a balanced attitude to risk as outlined in the report. [Mr J] confirmed he was happy 
to accept the risk as outlined in the report.
While the file note from 4 December 2017 appears to suggest the adviser drew a distinction 
between the answer to the attitude to risk question in the fact-find with those in the risk 
profile questionnaire to justify the change and increase in Mr Js risk profile  they indicated 
one was more about cash savings versus longer-term pension investment - as I said above, 
I think the fact-find question was a direct one and did refer to his attitude to investing. I think 
NTM shouldve placed greater weight on Mr Js answer here.
I accept that the advisers job is to advise, so this might include challenging or questioning 
an investors risk profile; particularly if the profile doesnt match their knowledge or 
experience or they give conflicting answers in a profiling assessment. 
But on the other hand and in this case, Mr J had given what I think was a clear indication as 
to the level of risk he was prepared to take with his pension. This was not a minor 
investment in an ISA where a small regular monthly contribution was at stake and in the 
overall scheme of things might not have much impact  this was a significant investment and 
a transaction that was irreversible. While I accept Mr J was relatively young and the term to retirement was long, taking 
everything into account, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for NTM to have 
encouraged/persuaded Mr J to take on a greater level of risk than he clearly indicated he 
was prepared to take. I think NTMs advice ought to have been based on Mr Js willingness 
to accept at best a low-risk attitude towards investing.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as NTM 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income need
NTM recommended the transfer because Mr J wanted the flexibility that is available through 
a personal pension  the ability to fashion his income towards his target in retirement, which 
couldnt be achieved by remaining in the DB scheme.
But Im not persuaded that Mr J knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at 
this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr J was only 33 years old at the time of the advice, and while I accept its possible he might 
have given some thought to his future retirement, given it was more than 20 years away and 
he still had the majority of his working life in front of him, I dont think he had anything that 
could reasonably be described as a set retirement plan. Mr Js recorded target retirement 
age was 57, which in my view simply reflects the earliest age legislation (currently) permits 
pension benefits can be taken from. I think Mr J, like most people if asked, liked the idea of 
retiring as early as possible  but Im not persuaded it was a firm objective given his 
retirement was so far into the future.
Of course Mr J already had the option of taking early retirement before the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65  he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept Mr J couldnt 
take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum 
and a reduced annual pension, Mr J had to take those benefits at the same time. But nothing 
here indicates that Mr J had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking 
his income. It seems likely Mr Js mortgage would be repaid before his retirement and 
nothing was recorded about any intended large capital expenditure. I also havent seen 
anything to indicate that Mr J had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement  I 
dont think Mr J really knew what his income needs would be at this stage. So it strikes me 
that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Js at the time.
But importantly, Mr J was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. And the nature 
of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr J with flexibility  he wasnt committed to 
take these benefits in a set way. While NTM recorded Mr J was contributing to this pension, 
unfortunately it didnt record either the current value or the contribution rate. In my 
experience the typical contribution rate was between 16-20% made up of a 10% employer 
contribution and between 6% and 10% by the employee. So I think its more likely than not 
Mr Js DC pension was receiving a contribution of not less than 16% of his salary. 
On this basis, by age 57, and without accounting for any salary increases, increases in 
contribution rate or investment growth, Mr Js pension could be worth in excess of £115,000. 
Including investment growth, I see no reason why this wouldnt be £200,000 or perhaps 
more given the potential length of the investment term. I think Mr J couldve taken lump 
sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. 
So, I think if Mr J retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr J didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr J did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age. And by opting into the BSPS2, he 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement if his needs later demanded 
it. I think NTM couldve explained this more clearly to Mr J.
Turning to Mr Js income need  while I dont think Mr J could reasonably have had any real 
understanding of what retirement income he would need in 24 years time - and I cant see 
that NTM attempted to carry out any detailed analysis of his likely expected income and 
expenditure in retirement - it was recorded that Mr J wanted £1,500 a month. And based on 
this, Ive seen nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new 
scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr J with, at the very least, a solid 
guaranteed income foundation upon which his other provision could supplement - at least 
until his state pension became payable - to likely meet his overall income need.
As I said earlier on, NTM didnt produce analysis based on a retirement age of 57. But 
according to NTM, at age 60 under the existing scheme Mr J would be entitled to an annual 
pension of around £5,984. Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this 
figure would be lower, but in my view still close to it. Although this alone wouldnt meet Mr Js 
income need (and at age 57 the income gap would be greater) Mr J wouldve likely had a 
significant amount in his workplace DC pension, which he could draw on flexibly, as and 
when needed, to top up his income or take a lump sum. Given the potential size of Mr Js DC 
pension, its possible that if he did decide to retire at 57 (by no means certain) he could draw 
on this pension alone to meet his initial income need allowing him to defer taking his DB 
scheme benefits for longer to achieve a higher initial income from this. 
Im mindful too that the advice paperwork records Mr J had another DB pension scheme with 
a previous employer; his wife had her own pension; and Mr J was saving around £500 a 
month  he already had around £22,000 saved. So given the term to his likely retirement, I 
think these other means couldve given Mr J further scope to supplement his income and 
provide the opportunity for him to retire early, if he ultimately decided to do so. I think NTM 
couldve explored this in more detail with Mr J. 
I can see NTM disputed Mr J held another pension in its response to the investigators 
assessment, saying that it was based on an erroneous assumption... which in turn appears 
to be based solely on a note scribbled on one of the fact-find documents...reference to a 2nd 
pension with [X] appears to have been assumed by the investigator to refer to Mr J. NTM 
suggests that this pension was held by Mr Js wife.
But why would the adviser refer to it as a 2nd pension if it didnt belong to Mr J? And Mr J 
was the client they were providing advice for. In any event Mr J has provided evidence of the 
existence of this pension as documented at the time. And while it might not be of significant 
value (NTM didnt obtain the value of it) as I said above, I think this couldve played a part in 
offering Mr J further scope to supplement his income and provide the opportunity for him to 
retire early, if he ultimately decided to do so.  
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr J wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr J would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2 on the basis of taking a full pension, I dont think it was substantially lower 
such that it wouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr Js 
retirement plans and needs werent formulated, but I think his income need couldve likely 
been met by utilising his DC scheme and other provision to draw on flexibly until his state pension became payable.
So overall, I think Mr J couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his pension just 
to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
NTM also recommended the transfer to enable Mr J to have higher lump sum death benefits 
to provide for his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. And I dont 
think NTM explored to what extent Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr J 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr J predeceased her. I dont think NTM made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr J. This was guaranteed and escalated and it would also be 
calculated as if no cash lump sum had been taken. Furthermore, it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, NTM should not have encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful there that Mr J already had lump sum death benefits available to him. He had 
death-in-service benefit, which would provide his wife with a lump sum if he died before 
retirement. And he was also contributing to his workplace DC scheme, which he could 
nominate his wife as beneficiary of if he hadnt already done so.
Furthermore, if Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think NTM 
shouldve instead explored additional life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report 
mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured equivalent to the transfer value  this 
was discounted by the adviser because of the cost (£47.35 per month). But I dont think that 
this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr J.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Js pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr 
J wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife and family, which would be a 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. 
So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr J how much he would ideally like to leave 
to his family, taking into account the lump sum benefits he already had, and this couldve 
been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot 
cheaper to provide, particularly given Mr Js young age and good health. Given Mr Js 
monthly disposable income, I see no reason why this wouldnt have been affordable. I think it 
is this NTM ought to have ultimately recommended to satisfy Mr Js objective rather than recommend he transfer out of his DB scheme to achieve things.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I understand that Mr J, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and so he was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of 
negative things circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr J was leaning 
towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had - his negative perception of 
the PPF and his concerns about the BSPS2. But it was NTMs obligation to give Mr J an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr J through 
the BSPS2 into account, particularly given the timing of the advice and the looming 22 
December 2017 deadline. I think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Js concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that NTM shouldve 
done more to reassure Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought or been led to believe. Importantly Mr J still had the option of taking early retirement 
through the PPF. Mr J didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I think the 
income available to Mr J through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his DC 
scheme and other means could supplement to likely meet his overall income need at 
retirement. Crucially he was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And 
although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed 
and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr J might not have been able to later transfer 
out of the PPF  but given what I said earlier on about him already having flexibility, I dont 
think there was an apparent need for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Js concerns about his DB scheme was a suitable or compelling 
reason to recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
Because I think the level of risk Mr J was prepared to take with his pension was lower than 
the risk profile of the recommended investment funds, I think the investment strategy 
recommended was unsuitable. But as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J, it follows that I dont need to consider 
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr J should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I accept that Mr J was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr J. But NTM wasnt there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr J needed and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was very likely to obtain 
lower overall retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
Mr J didnt have any real retirement plans, so he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed, and the 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his 
DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme 
to a personal pension at this time when I think he reasonably had the opportunity of opting 
into the BSPS2.
Not only could NTM have advised Mr J to opt-into the BSPS2 as a precaution before it 
completed its advice  he couldve still transferred out before March 2018 and it might have 
been possible for him to cancel his choice and still move to the PPF. But as I explained 
earlier on, I think NTM was in a position to deliver its written advice to Mr J sooner and to 
have considered the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 in doing so. Mr J might 
have chosen to remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF before he accepted 
NTMs recommendation, but if things had happened as they should have and in a timely 
manner, I think NTM could and shouldve advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate, as I said earlier on, that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. 
But as Ive also already said, I think everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to 
have been the position NTM adopted  I think it is fair and reasonable for it to have done so. 
And while Mr J indicated he wanted to retire at 57, as Ive explained this was more than 20 
years away and Mr Js plans couldve changed.
So, I don't think that it would've been in his best interest to accept the reduction in benefits 
he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr J wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if his needs 
later demanded it. Mr J was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at 
retirement (if Mr J chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So I think NTM shouldve advised Mr J to 
opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against NTMs 
advice. NTM argues this is the case saying that Mr J was aware that transferring out of the 
BSPS was the only alternative to falling into the PPF and it is wrong to assume that, given 
his views about his employer and the PPF, he wouldve blindly followed any advice or that 
he was not conscious of what he was doing.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against NTMs advice. 
I say this because, while as Ive already said Mr J was likely motivated to transfer when he 
approached NTM, on balance, I still think Mr J wouldve listened to and followed its advice if 
things had happened as they should have and NTM had recommended he not transfer out of 
the scheme. Mr J doesnt appear to have had much, if any prior investment experience (I 
dont consider contributing to a DC pension reasonably constitutes prior investment 
experience) so Im not persuaded Mr J possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice he was given, particularly in complex pension matters. 
Mr Js pension accounted for almost all of his private retirement provision at the time and I 
believe his attitude to investment risk was low. So, if NTM had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Ive already explained why I dont think the only alternative available to Mr J to avoid the PPF 
was to transfer. And Im not persuaded that any concerns Mr J had about his employer, or 
the concerns he had about the scheme, were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. Regarding Mr Js desire 
to break all ties with his employer - its clear that he still worked for the same employer. And 
he hadnt indicated he intended to find alternative employment. Mr J was also a member of 
his employers new DC pension scheme. So, Mr J wasnt going to achieve a separation from 
his employer by transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects.
So if NTM had clearly explained this and that Mr J could likely meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr J wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if NTM had given suitable 
advice and recommended that he should opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I have explained above, I 
consider Mr J would most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and 
opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given and delivered to him in a timely 
manner.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and I understand he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mar J receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman