DRN-1786293
 
The complaint
Mr W says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M had four loans with MYJAR: loan 1 in December 2016; loan 2 in February 2017; loan 3 
in July 2017; and then, after a break of about two years, loan 4 in July 2019.
MYJAR offered to uphold the complaint in respect of loans 3 and 4. It said it would remove 
the interest and charges from loan 4 (which has not been repaid) and offset the redress for 
loan 3 against the outstanding principal.
Mr Ws most recent email to this service says he accepts the offer  except for the proposal 
to offset the redress against the outstanding balance of loan 4. Our adjudicator thought the 
approach taken by MYJAR was fair but as Mr W didnt agree, his complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As Mr W now accepts the basis of MYJARs offer, Im only going to consider whether its fair 
for MYJAR to offset the redress against the outstanding balance. I think it is fair and will 
explain why.
This services approach to redress for complaints about irresponsible lending is well 
established. Where a loan has been repaid, Id expect a lender to refund the interest and 
charges  and where a loan is still outstanding, Id expect all interest and charges to be 
removed from the loan balance. If that leaves an unpaid principal balance, our approach is 
that any redress for other loans can usually be used to reduce or repay that balance. Our 
approach takes into account that the borrower will have had the use of the principal they 
borrowed, so its generally fair and reasonable that they repay it. MYJARs offer takes all of 
this into account.
I think that its fair to apply our usual approach in Mr Ws circumstances. If I consider it 
appropriate, I am able to depart from our usual approach  for example, where there is no 
realistic prospect of the debt being repaid. But Ive not seen any reasons to depart from our 
usual approach to redress in Mr Ws case. I think its fair and reasonable that Mr W repay the 
principal amount he borrowed for loan 4  and some of that amount is still outstanding. I 
consider it fair that MYJAR uses what it owes Mr W to reduce the amount Mr W owes to 
MYJAR.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by MYJAR Limited to settle this complaint is fair. If 
Mr W accepts this decision, MYJAR Limited must action its offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman