DRN-3070768
The complaint
Mrs H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) applied charges to her 
account without giving her any details including pre-advice on interest and charges. 
What happened
Mrs H complained to RBS that it levied charges to her account without providing any details 
or pre-advice on interest and charges. This prevented her from being able to assess if the 
charges were fair. RBS said its standard practice would have been to inform Mrs H about its 
pricing structure and any change in terms in advance and that all charges to Mrs Hs account 
have been applied correctly.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns and reached the conclusion RBS 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mrs H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs H is unhappy that RBS applied to her account  she says - without providing any details 
and she wasnt given the chance to access whether they were fair or appropriate. 
RBS have provided us with screenshots that show that although Mrs H receives her 
statements by email the alerts are inactive. This means that pre-notification of charges would 
be sent out automatically by post. And when Mrs H opened her account she wouldve done 
so on the basis of her agreeing to the terms and conditions of the account. If there were any 
changes to the terms and conditions she wouldve been given 60 days notice of this in the 
post.
RBS have provided a sample of the pre-notification of charges letter sent and I can see the 
address matches what we also hold for Mrs H. So without any evidence to the contrary Im 
satisfied that although Mrs H wasnt getting email alerts about the charges she wouldve 
received the information by post.
All charges that were applied were in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So I 
cant say that RBS has done anything wrong here. I havent considered whether the various 
amounts RBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at RBS various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs H if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Hs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs H was experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
From what Ive seen of Mrs Hs bank statements there were regular deposits of salary and 
cash transfers into the account and Mrs H was able to bring the overdraft down before once 
again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card transactions and further money 
transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs H wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted RBS to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to Mrs Hs 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for RBS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and I dont think RBS treated Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs H  but I 
hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns 
have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman