DRN-3137753
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about personal loans they had with Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans (EL). They say EL shouldnt have lent to them as the loans 
werent affordable for them.
What happened
In July 2009 and April 2012, Mrs H and Mr H had personal loans with EL. Each loan was for  
£3,000 over a period of 36 and 30 months respectively. The monthly repayments were 
£225.66 and £261.04. Mrs H and Mr H said the loans had caused them financial hardship as 
they struggled to make the repayments. Mr H said he was on a low income and Mrs H 
worked part time. They didnt think EL should have lent to them, so they complained to EL.
EL said Mrs H and Mr H had brought their complaint too late as it was over six years ago. 
But accepted our decision that Mrs H and Mr H hadnt been aware they could complain and 
had brought their complaint within three years of becoming aware.
EL said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks that showed Mrs H and Mr H 
had enough disposable income each month to cover their monthly payments including the 
repayment of the new loans.
Mrs H and Mr H werent happy with ELs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said for the first loan ELs checks were proportionate and he didnt think EL 
had acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr H. But for Loan Two he said the checks made by EL 
showed the loan wasnt affordable for Mrs H and Mr H. He said the repayments Mrs H and 
Mr H had made should be deducted from the amount advanced to them and:
a) if this results in Mrs H and Mr H having paid more than they received, any
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the
date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement); 
b) if any capital balance remains outstanding, then EL should attempt to arrange an
affordable and suitable payment plan with Mrs H and Mr H and;
c) to remove any negative information recorded on Mrs H and Mr H credit files
relating to the loan. 
Mr H and EL accepted the investigators findings about Loan One. But EL didnt agree with 
his findings about Loan Two. They said the affordability calculation made by the investigator 
was flawed. EL didnt respond further to our investigator, so the complaint has been passed 
for an ombudsman to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigators findings about Loan One have been accepted I wont comment further 
about this part of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. Having reviewed the evidence about Loan 
Two I uphold this part of the complaint. Ill explain why.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks. But CONC 5.2A.20R 
provides guidance as to the extent and scope of a creditworthiness assessment and the 
steps needed to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on 
enough information and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each case.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means EL in 
lending to Mrs H and Mr H are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether 
they could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as 
an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so EL needed to think about
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mrs H and Mr H. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that 
they would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mrs H and 
Mr H.
Checks should be proportionate having consideration for the specific circumstances of the 
loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend 
on several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different loan 
applications. So, Ive considered whether EL in lending to Mrs H and Mr H had been 
thorough in the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account 
in deciding to lend to them. 
EL has shown that they used the information provided by Mrs H and Mr H in the application. 
And checked other sources including Mrs H and Mr Hs payslips and bank statements. EL 
calculated Mrs H and Mr H had a combined monthly income including tax credits of around 
£2,157. Their credit repayments inclusive of their mortgage to be £852. For other outgoings 
EL used a percentage of Mrs H and Mr Hs income  35% which equated to around £754. 
Taking the new loan repayment into account of £261.04, EL calculated that Mrs H and Mr H 
had disposable income each month of around £209. So, they considered the loan was 
affordable. EL also said that as the lending was to be used to settle Mrs H and Mr Hs 
overdraft and credit card commitments this would have given them further disposable 
income once these were settled. As this would seem to show that the loan was affordable for 
Mrs H and Mr H, they agreed to the loan.
From the information EL had I think their assessment of income and credit commitments to 
be in line with what I can see. Having considered Mrs H and Mr Hs outgoings for food and 
other amenities the £754 used by EL doesnt seem unreasonable and falls in line with the 
outgoings for food and utilities showing on Mrs H and Mr Hs bank statement. But Mrs H and 
Mr Hs bank statements were available and seen by EL and there are some factors showing 
on this that I think are indicators of financial difficulty. 
ELs assessment suggested Mrs H and Mr H would have disposable income of around 
£209.The loan was to be used for settling their overdraft  around £1300 and their credit 
cards. But the loan amount wasnt enough to settle all their credit commitments, and I 
calculate their disposable income could have increased by around £50, if they had cleared 
some of their credit commitments as they said they would, this would have increased their 
disposable income to around £259. But on Mrs H and Mr Hs bank statement I can see that 
they had a small number of gambling transactions totalling £80. There is also evidence of 
the credit of two payday loans totalling £240. And cash withdrawals of over £400, I cant see 
that EL checked further about any of these transactions. 
The bank statements show Mrs H and Mr H had an overdraft facility of £1,500 which they 
were constantly using near to its limit. And given the transactions seen on their bank 
statement there was other spending that EL hadnt checked to determine whether they 
needed to be factored into their affordability assessment. I dont think, in reality, Mrs H and 
Mr H had a disposable income of £259. So, I dont think EL carried out enough checks to 
determine Mrs H and Mr Hs financial situation, as while the loan might have appeared to 
have been affordable, I dont think it was sustainable.  
 
I dont think EL focussed on Mrs H and Mr H as a borrower and their specific circumstances. 
I dont think they carried out enough checks to determine whether Mrs H and Mr H could 
sustain the repayments. So, I think they acted irresponsibly in providing Mrs H and Mr H with 
Loan Two. 
 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt
straightforward. And Mrs H and Mr H have had the loan in question and used the funds. In 
these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. So, I ask Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans to:remove any interest and charges applied to Mrs H and Mr Hs Loan Two account 
from when it was opened; 
treat any payments that Mrs H and Mr H has made as a reduction of the principle 
amount, if this results in Mrs H and Mr H having paid more than what they were 
initially lent, then any extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to 
Mrs H and Mr H plus 8% simple interest on this amount from date of payment to 
date of settlement; 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans should attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan 
with Mrs H and Mr H and;
remove any adverse information on Mrs H and Mr Hs credit file in relation to this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited must give Mrs H and Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to put 
things right for Mrs H and Mr H as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman