DRN-4085962
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the way esure Insurance Limited has settled a claim he made on 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr A contacted esure to claim on his car insurance policy for a stolen 
vehicle. esure had concerns about the claim, but ultimately settled the claim by paying 
around £12,000 to clear the amount he owed on a finance agreement. Mr A didnt think this 
was fair as he said the cars market value was around £18,000.
esure said it wasnt required to pay more as it said the terms of the insurance policy only 
required it to clear the finance. Mr A didnt agree and referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint because it said the terms of the insurance policy only 
limited settlement to the balance outstanding on the finance agreement where the car was 
acquired through lease or contract hire. But he said Mr A had acquired it through a hire 
purchase agreement, so he didnt think the term applied. So he thought the policy set out 
that esure was required to pay Mr A the market value, less what it paid to the finance 
company. He also thought esure should pay £150 in compensation.
Neither party accepted the investigators opinion. Mr A said hed had to pay for taxis 
because esure hadnt paid him any money and he wanted esure to refund this. esure didnt 
think it was right to pay Mr A because it said hed be profiting from the claim. And it 
highlighted that Mr A hadnt paid anything towards the finance for around six months before 
the car was stolen.
As a result, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
esure says the terms of the finance agreement say its only required to pay the balance on 
the finance agreement. But I dont agree. The term esure is relying upon says:
If you have acquired your car through lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or 
contract hire company either the market value of the car, or the amount required to settle the 
agreement, whichever is less.
However, critically this term says it only applies to where a consumer acquires a car through 
a lease or contract hire agreement. But Mr A acquired the car on a hire purchase 
agreement.. Im also conscious that in a separate part of the contract esure says:
The cover does not apply if:
the car is owned by you, or hired or leased to you under a hire purchase or leasing 
agreement.
This means that elsewhere in the contract, esure has distinguished between lease hire and 
hire purchase. Taking everything into consideration  including about the contract as a 
whole, I think a reasonable interpretation of the clause esure is looking to rely upon is that it 
doesnt apply to terms were the finance agreement contains a right to buy if all payments 
were made So I dont believe the term esure is seeking to rely upon applies to hire purchase 
agreements. I also think this is the fair and reasonable situation too. It follows, therefore, that 
I dont think it was within the terms of the contract or fair for esure to limit the settlement to 
the amount owed on the finance agreement.
The terms of the policy set out that esure will pay anyone who has a financial interest in the 
car first and pay the balance to Mr A. esure acted fairly and in line with the terms of the 
finance agreement in paying the finance company first. But it should have then paid Mr A the 
difference between the market value and what it paid the finance agreement. This is what it 
now needs to do to put things right. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date it settled the finance agreement until Mr A gets it back.
I note esure thinks this is unfair and believes Mr A is profiting from the claim, but I dont 
agree. Under a hire purchase agreement, Mr A is entitled to the equity in the car and the 
payments he makes towards the car increases the equity in the car. So hes only receiving 
what hes contractually entitled to if he makes all the payments. esure has highlighted that 
Mr A didnt make payments towards the finance for six months before the incident and it 
believes hes benefitted from not doing so. But, had he made these payments, there would 
have been more equity in the car and he would have been entitled to a higher payment from 
esure. So I dont agree hes benefitting from not making payments to the car.
Finally, I acknowledge esure has concerns about the veracity of this claim. But, by its own 
admission, Mr A has shown he doesnt have possession of the car, the police have treated 
the matter as theft and esure hasnt given me anything to support its concern that a theft 
hasnt occurred. So my decision still stands that esure should pay Mr A the difference 
between the market value and what it paid the finance agreement.
Ive taken into consideration Mr As comment that he thinks esure should pay his hire 
charges. But I dont agree. Mr A had a duty to mitigate his own losses. Im conscious esure 
cleared his finance agreement, so Mr A could have taken out another finance to acquire 
another car. So I think he could have taken steps to reduce this impact. However I think the 
£150 in compensation the investigator recommended for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr A suffered is fair. I dont think esure needs to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require esure Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Pay Mr A the difference between the market value and what it paid the finance 
agreement. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date it settled 
the finance agreement until Mr A gets it back. If esure thinks that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
2. Pay Mr A £150 in compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman