DRN-3234342
The complaint
Mr F complains about what happened when he asked Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin
Money to cash a cheque for him which was drawn on an overseas bank, and in a foreign 
currency.   
 
What happened
Mr F said that on 15 April 2020 he deposited a cheque for $10,527 in US dollars in his local
branch of Clydesdale bank. He said that on 13 May 2020 the cheque was returned to the
issuing bank overseas, it had been cancelled. Mr F told us Clydesdale had since said he
should have been told about this at the time, but he wasnt. It had debited £30 from his
account, but he missed that.
Mr F said he wasnt expecting the cheque to clear for between six and ten weeks, so he
waited twelve weeks before visiting the branch to see what had happened. Mr F said it was
only then that he discovered the payment had failed. He eventually managed to have the
money wired to him, and it was paid into his account on 1 September 2020. That was five
months after he first deposited the cheque.
Mr F said that in the interim, the pound had dropped significantly against the dollar. And if
hed known about this problem with his cheque in May, he could have taken this up with the
sender at the time, rather than a couple of months later. Mr F said that the change in
exchange rates meant that he lost a lot of money when his payment was eventually
exchanged. He wanted Clydesdale to pay the difference between the worth of the cheque in
pounds in the middle of May 2020, and what he got for it in September 2020.
Mr F showed us that when he had complained about this, Clydesdale didnt say that the
cheque had been returned and cancelled, it just said the money had been paid into his
account on 1 September 2020, and it thought the delay might have been because of the
pandemic.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that any notification
about problems with the cheque had been sent to Mr F, and he said Mr F had lost out
because of the change in exchange rates. He thought Clydesdale should pay Mr F £150
now, and if it had charged £30 for the failed payment, it should refund that too.
Mr F didnt agree with that. He said that he lost quite a lot of money due to Clydesdale not
informing him about the cheque being returned. He thought Clydesdale should pay the
difference caused by the drop in exchange rates between 15 April and 1 September.
Clydesdale also wrote to say that it did know what had gone wrong with the cheque. The
bank that the cheque was drawn on hadnt paid the money. It showed us notification of this,
from its partner bank overseas, which was dated 1 May. And it also showed us that its
branch had been told that this payment had failed on 14 May. But the branch hadnt notified
Mr F of this due to an oversight. Clydesdale was sorry about that. It showed us that this
money had then been paid into Mr Fs account on 1 September 2020, and that Mr F hadnt
paid any fees for the failed payment.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Clydesdale accepted this, but Mr F didnt. He
repeated that hed lost out as a result of exchange rate changes, and said he now thought
that Clydesdale should pay the difference between the rates on 13 May and 1 September.
He said £150 didnt come close to covering this.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr F told us hed deposited his cheque on 15 April, and he said he was told by the 
branch that the cheque might not clear for some time, perhaps as much as ten 
weeks. Thats consistent with what Clydesdale has said. For that reason, I think it 
was reasonable for Mr F to follow up to see what had happened to his cheque twelve 
weeks after it was deposited.
Clydesdale has also accepted that it didnt tell Mr F promptly when the cheque wasnt
honoured. So we know that Mr F only found out that this payment failed when he 
went back into branch twelve weeks after hed deposited the cheque. Mr F hasnt told 
us exactly when that was, but it seems likely that this happened on or around 8 July.
Mr F thought Clydesdale should pay for the loss he suffered as a result of exchange 
rate changes between 13 May and 1 September. But I dont think that what has 
happened here, and the lengthy delay in Mr F getting his money, is all Clydesdales 
fault. Its not fair to ask Clydesdale to pay for an exchange rate loss that happened as 
a result of other delays.
So I think I have to decide how much of this delay is Clydesdales fault, and what is 
likely to have happened if Clydesdale didnt make a mistake. Then we can see how 
what Clydesdale did has affected Mr F.
As a starting point, I dont think its Clydesdales fault that this cheque wasnt actually 
paid when it was first deposited. I have seen the documents that Clydesdales US 
partner bank sent to it, which say that the bank the cheque was drawn on hadnt paid 
the money. What went wrong at that stage, didnt happen with Clydesdale. So it isnt 
Clydesdales fault Mr F didnt get his money right away.
But Clydesdale is responsible for a delay in Mr F finding out about the problems with 
his cheque. It looks as if Clydesdale knew about this problem around 1 May. I think it 
should have told Mr F promptly about the problem then. It didnt do so. Clydesdales 
central office didnt tell its branch until 14 May, and this message wasnt passed on to 
Mr F at that time.
I think Mr F shouldve been made aware by Clydesdale that there was a problem with 
his cheque, on or around 7 May. We know he didnt find out until on or around 8 July. 
So I think this delay is Clydesdales fault.
But when Mr F did find out, he wasnt able to get the money straight away. Hes told 
us there were then further problems, nothing to do with Clydesdale, in getting this 
money sent to him. He didnt receive it until 1 September, some 55 days later.Because of what Mr F told us about the further problems getting his payment, I think 
its reasonable to assume that Mr F would always have experienced this delay in 
getting the money sent to him a different way, whenever hed found out that his 
cheque hadnt cleared.
So how much of this delay is Clydesdale responsible for? I think if it had told Mr F 
promptly, on 7 May, about the problems with his cheque, then he would still only 
have got his money 55 days later. That would have been on 1 July. And we know he 
didnt get the money until 1 September. So I think its only any change in exchange 
rates between these times, 1 July and 1 September, that could reasonably be said to 
be a loss caused by Clydesdale.
As our investigator said, its always very difficult to know what exchange rate would 
have been used by the bank at any particular point in time. But I think its reasonable 
to use the Bank of England underlying rate to work out Mr Fs loss, because any rate 
used by Clydesdale or indeed by its US partner bank, is likely to remain proportionate 
to that.
I also note that Mr F was eventually wired a slightly smaller amount, of $10,520.62. 
Because I think that its not Clydesdales fault that the payment had to be made by 
wire transfer, not cheque, I think this is the reference amount I should use for working 
out any loss.
The Bank of Englands historic exchange rate records show that the US dollar to 
pound sterling exchange rate on 1 July 2020 was
$1.2458 : £1.
And it shows that the exchange rate on 1 September 2020 was
$1.3450 : £1.
Using these underlying rates, Mr F would have got £8,444.87 if the conversion had 
been done on 1 July 2020. He would have got £7,822.02 if the conversion had been 
done using these rates on 1 September 2020. I know Mr F got slightly less than this, 
in fact. And thats not surprising as actual exchange rates used are generally a little 
less favourable than Bank of England reference rates. But I do think this provides a 
helpful indication of the likely difference in the amount Mr F got, compared with what 
he could have received if hed got his payment on 1 July. For that reason, I think 
Clydesdale should pay Mr F the difference between these two amounts, which is 
£622.85.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr F sent a short reply, to say that he was 
very pleased Id upheld his complaint, and had nothing to add.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must pay Mr F 
£622.85.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman