DRN-4076159
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wont allow him to reject a faulty 
car.
What happened
Mr F entered into a finance agreement with Santander, for a used car. He was aware there 
was some damage, but was happy to proceed. However, he then discovered faults and 
damage that he hadnt been aware of, including issues with switches, the boot, the stop/start 
function and a knocking/squeaking noise. He complained to the dealership, and the car was 
taken to a local garage. Mr F thought this would be for repairs, but it was actually for an 
inspection report. Once the report had been produced, the car was returned to Mr F in the 
same condition. Unable to make progress with the dealership, Mr F complained to 
Santander, then to our service. Hed like to reject the car.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied there were faults 
with the car. He noted that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, if the short term right to 
reject hasnt been utilised, then a consumer has the right to a repair. He thought this would 
be fair here. He could also see that the garage that carried out the original inspection has 
received the necessary parts in order for repairs to be done and that the relevant invoices 
have been raised. So, repairs can now be done in a reasonable timeframe. He thought 
Santander should arrange and cover the cost of the repairs. He was also satisfied that Mr F 
had suffered distress and inconvenience, including not always getting call backs, and 
chasing things up. He felt £200 compensation was fair to reflect this.
Santander agreed with the proposed remedy, but Mr F didnt, and feels he should be able to 
reject the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties are in agreement that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, 
and the system notes and correspondence Ive seen reflect this. What is in dispute, is what a 
fair remedy would be. Under the Consumer Rights Act, in this situation Santander should be 
given the right to try to repair the car, before it can be rejected. Ive thought about whether it 
would be reasonable, in this case, to depart from the law. However, I can see no reason why 
repair isnt a fair remedy here. Theres nothing Ive seen to suggest that the repairs would be 
ineffective.
Im also satisfied, for the same reasons as our investigator, that Mr F has suffered distress 
and inconvenience, and that £200 is an appropriate amount to reflect this.
Putting things right
To put things right, Santander should:
arrange and pay for the repairs, as soon as reasonably possible, if it hasnt done so 
already; and
pay Mr F £200 for the distress and inconvenience thats been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to take the actions set out above, in the section entitled 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman