DRN-3406423
The complaint
Miss C and Mr H complain about their insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) avoiding their home contents insurance policy due to Mr H having an unspent criminal 
conviction that wasnt declared when the policy was taken out and subsequently renewed.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss C and Mr H contacted RSA to lodge a claim for damage to some 
contents at their property from a leak. RSA appointed a firm to assess the damaged items. 
But Miss C and Mr H said they were told by RSA they could dispose of the damaged items 
and send RSA details of replacements (although RSA had no record of this). RSA asked for 
photographs of the damaged items and receipts. But Miss C and Mr H said they didnt have 
any photographs and the receipts had been damaged by the leak.
Given the circumstances, including a claim in September 2020 for damage from a leak to 
contents that had been settled (at a cost of £5,214), RSA appointed a firm (C) to investigate 
the claim further. Cs investigation found Mr H had an unspent criminal conviction. Mr H 
received a prison sentence of three years and six months in March 2015, being released in 
2016. However, under the relevant legislation, while the sentence expired in September 
2018, the rehabilitation timeframe for a sentence of between 30 months and 48 months was 
the period of the sentence plus a further seven years. As such, Mr Hs conviction wasnt 
spent until September 2025. 
As RSA wouldnt have provided cover had they known about Mr Hs unspent conviction, they 
told Miss C and Mr H they were avoiding the policy from its inception in August 2020 and 
declining the claim. Because the policy was avoided from its inception, RSA also said Miss C 
and Mr H had to repay the £5,214 cost of the earlier claim. However, RSA didnt consider 
Miss C and Mr H deliberately withheld details of the unspent conviction, so they said theyd 
return the premiums paid under the policy (£406) leaving a net £4,808 to be repaid.
Unhappy at RSAs decision to avoid their policy decline their 2021 claim declined and ask 
them to repay the cost of the 2020 claim, Miss C and Mr H complained to RSA. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response they confirmed their decision, because of Mr Hs 
unspent conviction that wasnt declared when the policy was taken out. Had they known 
about the conviction they wouldnt have offered cover. RSA also considered Mr H being 
named on the policy meant it was fair for them to ask about [his] convictions when the policy 
was taken out. RSA also confirmed that  as the policy had been avoided from the date it 
was taken out  they required Miss C and Mr H to repay the claim settled in 2020.
Unhappy at RSAs final response, Miss C and Mr H then complained to this service. They 
said Mr Hs conviction had been spent.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
She thought RSA had acted fairly in considering Mr Hs conviction unspent (under the 
relevant legislation) at the point the policy was taken out in 2020. She also thought RSA had 
asked a clear question on whether there was a conviction. She thought this meant Miss C 
and Mr H had made a qualifying misrepresentation under The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as RSA wouldnt have offered cover 
had they known about the conviction. The investigator thought it was reasonable for RSA to 
say the misrepresentation was careless. The investigator also thought Miss C and Mr H 
made a qualifying, careless misrepresentation by not disclosing the conviction when the 
policy was renewed in 2021. The investigator also thought RSA had acted fairly in avoiding 
the policy from its inception, based on the qualifying, careless misrepresentations. As the 
policy had been fairly avoided, it was reasonable for RSA to have declined the 2021 claim 
and asked for repayment of the 2020 claim settlement (net of the premiums paid). 
Miss C and Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, Miss C and Mr H said Mr H wasnt resident at the property 
(but stayed some nights of the week) and provided information showing his address being 
different to the property to which the policy applied. They also said Mr H had been added to 
the policy in error and theyd asked RSA to remove him from the policy. They also said the 
Probation Service had confirmed Mr Hs conviction was spent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to reassure Miss C and Mr H that Ive considered very carefully what theyve 
told us about their circumstances, including their health issues and their vulnerability 
(including that of a family member). Ive also been mindful of the impact that the case has 
had on them, both financially and on their health. Ive borne these circumstances in mind 
when deciding whether RSA have acted fairly towards Miss C and Mr H.
The central issue in Miss C and Mr Hs complaint is RSAs declined of their claim in 2021 for 
the damage to their contents from the leak, as well as avoiding the policy from its inception 
in 2020 (and asking for the repayment of the earlier claim under the policy in 2020). Miss C 
and Mr H say this was unfair and that Mr Hs conviction was spent at the point they took out 
the policy in 2020 and its subsequent renewal in 2021. For their part, RSA say the conviction 
should have been declared (on both occasions) as it wasnt spent. Had they known about 
the conviction they wouldnt have provided cover.
There are several aspects to the case, including whether Mr Hs conviction was spent at the 
time the policy was taken out and then renewed. Theres also the issue of whether the 
conviction should have been disclosed (at both points) and following on from this, whether 
RSA acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding the policy and declining the claim (in 2021) and 
asking for repayment of the cost of the 2020 claim.
On the first of these issues, whether Mr Hs conviction was spent when the policy was taken 
out (and subsequently renewed), Miss C and Mr H say the conviction was spent because the 
period of the sentence he received in March 2015 (three years and six months) had passed 
at the point the policy was taken out (August 2020). RSA say the conviction wasnt spent 
under the relevant legislation, as there was an additional period (of seven years) to be added 
onto the sentence at the point at which it had passed. That meant the conviction wasnt 
spent until September 2025.
Ive considered both views carefully. In doing so Ive looked at the relevant legislation setting 
out the statutory position with respect to criminal convictions. The starting point is the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (ROA). Additionally, theres the Legal Aid Sentencing 
and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 (LAPSO). The legislation sets out what is referred to 
as the rehabilitation period for offenders. This determines the point at which a conviction is considered spent and varies depending on the nature of the offence, the sentence and its 
length.
 
For custodial sentences, the rehabilitation period begins after the sentence (including any 
licence period) has been completed. In Mr Hs case, his conviction was in March 2015 and 
for a length of three years and six months. Which means the rehabilitation period began in 
September 2018. For a sentence of more than 30 months (and less than 48 months) the 
rehabilitation period set out in the legislation is seven years. That is, to September 2025. I 
appreciate Miss C and Mr H thought the conviction was spent at the point at which the 
sentence expired (September 2018). But thats not what the legislation says  its September 
2025. Based on this, Ive concluded Mr Hs conviction, under the relevant legislation, wasnt 
spent at the point the policy was taken out (August 2020) or at its renewal (August 2021). As 
such, Ive also concluded RSA acted fairly in applying the provisions of the legislation in 
treating Mr Hs conviction as unspent.
Having concluded RSA acted fairly in treating Mr Hs conviction as unspent, Ive gone on to 
consider whether the conviction should have been disclosed (at both points) and following 
on from this, whether RSA acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding the policy and declining 
the claim (in 2021) and asking for repayment of the cost of the 2020 claim. RSA say Miss C 
and Mr H made a careless misrepresentation when not disclosing the conviction, and as 
such they (RSA) were entitled to apply the remedies available to them where a consumer 
makes a careless misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive considered whether Miss C and Mr H failed to take reasonable care when they didnt 
disclose Mr Hs conviction. In doing this Ive looked at the questions asked by RSA  both 
when the policy was taken out in 2020 and when it was renewed in 2021. 
When the policy was taken out in 2020 from the online application provided by RSA, Miss C 
and Mr H were asked to confirm the statement below:
Our home insurance is issued on the basis that you can confirm that the following 
statements are true, to the best of your knowledge. You and your family have not:
Got a criminal record for anything (except driving or speeding) that you are still 
required to disclose.
Similarly, the Statement of Fact issued after the policy was taken out included a statement:
Your insurance history
You or any of your family havent received a conviction for any offence except for 
driving or speeding.I think this makes it clear Mr Hs conviction should have been disclosed. While Miss C and 
Mr H thought the conviction was spent, this wasnt the case as Ive concluded above. Ive 
concluded Miss C and Mr H made a misrepresentation. I agree with RSAs view that it was 
careless (as Miss C and Mr H had thought it spent) rather than deliberate or reckless. 
Turning to the renewal of the policy in 2021, Ive looked at the questions asked in the 
renewal documentation. The renewal letter includes a Statement of Facts, together with a 
reference to the need to check the information and notify any changes or corrections within 
30 days.  The Statement of Fact includes a similar reference to that issued when the policy 
was taken out:
Your insurance history
You or any of your family havent received a conviction for any offence except for 
driving or speeding. 
Have you or your family received a conviction for any offence except for driving or 
speeding which you havent told us about? If yes, please call us within 30 days to let 
us know as this may affect the cover we can provide.
Again, I think this is clear and Mr Hs conviction should have been disclosed. So, Ive 
concluded made a misrepresentation. I think it was careless, for the same reasons as Ive 
set out earlier.
As Ive concluded both misrepresentations should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions RSA can take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRA states that when theres a careless 
misrepresentation the insurer may still avoid the policy where it wouldnt have offered the 
cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the relevant period of the cover.
 
Ive seen RSAs underwriting guidelines, which confirm they wouldnt have offered cover 
given Mr Hs conviction. So, Ive concluded RSA acted fairly, in accordance with CIDRA, in 
avoiding the policy (from the date of policy being taken out) but returning the premiums. As 
such, Ive also concluded that RSA acted fairly in declining Miss C and Mr Hs claim in 2021. 
And as the policy was fairly avoided from its inception (in August 2020) then I think its 
reasonable for RSA to seek to recover the costs of the 2020 claim settlement (net of the 
premiums paid).
While Ive reached these conclusions, I have considered carefully the points raised by Miss 
C and Mr H when disagreeing with out investigators view. Firstly, they say Mr H wasnt 
resident at the property (but stayed some nights of the week) and provided information 
showing his address being different to the property to which the policy applied. Ive thought 
about this, but Im not persuaded. Ive seen the video interview with Mr H and he makes a 
clear statement (in response to a question about how long hes been at the property) that it 
is five years. Additional evidence from RSA supports the conclusion Mr H was living at the 
property.  
Secondly, Miss C and Mr H also argue Mr H had been added to the policy in error and theyd 
asked RSA to remove him from the policy. However, Im not persuaded. The policy 
documents issued at the inception of the policy and subsequently when the policy was 
renewed both include Mr H as a joint policyholder alongside Miss C. And Ive not seen any 
evidence Miss C tried to take Mr H off the policy (or RSA failed to do so when requested).
Thirdly, Miss C and Mr H also say the Probation Service had confirmed Mr Hs conviction 
was spent. Ive looked at the letter, but it simply confirms Mr H was subject to a custodial 
sentence (of 42 months) in March 2015  it doesnt say anything about the conviction being spent. And as Ive already concluded that the relevant legislation means the conviction 
wouldnt be spent until September 2025, this doesnt alter my view.
Taking all these points together, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
avoiding Miss C and Mr Hs policy from its inception; declining their 2021 claim; and asking 
them to repay the settlement of their 2020 claim (net of the premiums theyve paid).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss C and Mr Hs 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman