DRN-3042722
The complaint
Miss H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), rejected the claim she made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2014, Miss H contacted a company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a 
solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being visited by a 
representative of P, Miss H decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In May 2017 the CMC made a claim on Miss Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made several representations about the system that 
had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Miss H 
to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £6,900.00 to 
mislead Miss H  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was £13,530.60;
Miss H was promised a tax-free year 1 benefit of £501.48 but it was not explained 
that after making the monthly repayments there would be an annual deficit of 
£502.59;
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments 
alone  she was informed on numerous occasions the money from the FIT payments 
would exceed the loan repayments;
the system would not cost her a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She 
thought it unlikely P had told Miss H the FIT payments would cover her loan repayments. But 
she considered it more likely than not P had told Miss H the system would be self-funding, 
through a combination of FIT payments and savings, before the end of the loan term.
When our investigator looked at why the FIT payments and savings Miss H had received 
hadnt been as high as expected, she concluded that the system was underperforming 
compared to the estimates provided by P at the point of sale and that these untrue estimates 
had induced Miss H to enter into the contract. So, she recommended that Shawbrook should 
reduce the total amount payable by Miss H so that it equalled the benefits the system would 
generate over the original loan term. She also said Shawbrook should pay Miss H £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Neither Shawbrook nor the CMC responded to the investigators view, so the case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2021 because I didnt completely agree with 
the investigators findings. I began by setting out the considerations I thought relevant to my 
decision. I wrote:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; 
relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Miss H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss H could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 
into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between 
Miss H and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent 
of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an 
untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party 
which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I agree with our investigators assessment that P more 
likely than not told Miss H the system would fund itself over the term of the loan, I 
currently dont agree that this was an untrue statement of fact or that the system is 
underperforming against the estimates provided at the point of sale.
Key documents
Before I explain why Im minded not to uphold Miss Hs complaint, Ill highlight some 
points about the documents Ive relied on. There are several documents that have 
been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. These include the credit 
agreement, the contract and a document Ill refer to as the solar quote.
Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar complaints, Im satisfied 
that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent the solar quote to Miss H and 
I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this complaint. Indeed, in Miss Hs 
witness statement although she describes having to chase up the detailed information following the representatives visits, she does say that after his second 
visit she received an email from [P] with information attached, and that she declined 
to sign the satisfaction note on the day of the systems installation until further 
information that shed wanted had been received. She then signed.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that 
it formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss Hs 
recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments. Again, Im satisfied Miss H received this. Ive seen evidence it was 
electronically signed by her on 13 August 2014, and on the installation satisfaction 
note (dated 11 September 2014) there is reference to the agreement having been 
signed on 13 August.
I have reviewed the case and can see that Miss H was provided with two contracts; 
one estimated an annual generation of 2,053.56 kWh and another 2,400.84 kWh. 
Miss H has provided her witness statement. She explained that P attended her 
property to install the system, but it was not the one that she originally purchased. 
So, she didnt allow them to install the system. P then agreed to install a more 
expensive system which would provide additional benefits to Miss H. P has agreed 
that Miss Hs system was upgraded. Im therefore satisfied that Miss H entered a 
contract for a system that was estimated to generate 2,400.84 kWh.
I note that the solar quote used a higher annual estimated generation of 2,646.69 
kWh to detail the income and savings that Miss H could expect to receive from the 
system. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to use an estimated annual generation of 
2,646.69 kWh when considering the performance of the system.
Performance of the system
The investigator concluded that the system generated approximately 2,136.20 kWh 
in the first year which was approximately 510.49 kWh less than estimated by P at the 
point of sale. Miss H reported performance problems to P shortly after the system 
was installed. P attended her property to rectify the issue and compensated her for 
the loss of generation in February 2015.
Therefore, I think it reasonable to look at the generation of the system after this point 
to establish how it is performing compared to the point of sale estimations. So, I have 
looked at the period 23 March 2015 to 31 March 2016 for the actual generation. The 
generation for this period was 2,573.48 kWh  this means that the generation over 
365 days was approximately 2,504.8 kWh. This is slightly less than the estimated 
generation of 2,646.69 kWh but I think it is within a reasonable margin.
Therefore, unlike the investigator, I think the system is performing as estimated by P 
at the point of sale. So, I have gone on to establish if I think there has been a 
misrepresentation or any other reason for the case to be upheld.
Misrepresentation
Cost of the systemMiss H has said that the cost of the system was documented as £6,900.00. She has 
said that this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £13,530.60.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Miss H made it clear that the cost of the 
system was £6,900.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the total amount of credit is £6,900.00 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £13,530.60.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due, as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, 
the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the 
system was £6,900.00, it would cost Miss H more than this as she had decided to 
pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
FIT payments
Miss H has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and considered whether this supports what Miss H has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss H could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 
years. The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Miss H could expect to 
receive a total FIT income in year one of £443.71.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss H could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £202.60 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Miss H, the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £812.02. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
There is a page titled system performance and returns with a series of tables. This 
has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused 
on the table for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Miss H entered into 
with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of £75.17 
due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a 
monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss H could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the 
FIT income to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income she could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, 
would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, 
Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss H that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected benefits from the system 
versus the cost. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from 
the start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the 
expected income and monthly loan repayments. However, I do accept that Miss H 
was told by P that the system would be self-funding over time.
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that 
Miss H could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement (£13,530.60).
As Ive said, Im satisfied that P told Miss H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
As explained above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the 
highest generation estimation Miss H was given.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation 
increase. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2014 to calculate 
the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases 
between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at 
the point of sale. I think this explains why Miss H hasnt been receiving the financial 
returns she may have been expecting from the solar panel system.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information 
available from the ONS covering 2004 to 2014. I dont consider it unreasonable for P 
to have used this data as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss 
H could expect to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns have not been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded 
that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss H 
entered into the contract.
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss H 
to enter into the contract for the system.
Affordability
Miss H has explained that she was off work at the point of sale due to ill health and 
doesnt believe that the loan should have been sold to her.
Shawbrook have provided credit bureau data which shows Miss Hs income and 
debts at the point of sale. This shows that Miss Hs annual income was £22,000 and 
she had no significant debt. The loan repayments were £75 a month. Based on this, I 
think the checks completed by Shawbrook were proportionate and Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the loan was unaffordable.
Miss H has let us know that she is now in financial difficulties. In these 
circumstances, I would expect Shawbrook to treat her positively and sympathetically.
Moving house
Miss H moved house in 2017. The CMC have told us that Miss H started looking for a 
new home in 2016. They said she recalled discussing with Ps representative what 
would happen if she moved in future, and she was told she could take the system 
with her, at no cost to her. But, when it came to moving, the utility provider told her 
the system must remain with the property.
Ive seen the witness statement Miss H prepared and signed for the CMC as part of 
her claim. In that document Miss H said nothing about being advised she could take 
the system with her if she moved. On the contrary, in her witness statement she 
refers to being told the system would increase the value of her property if she sold it 
in future. The witness statement is dated April 2017, approximately three years after 
the date of sale, and I would expect this to reflect Miss Hs recollection of what 
happened at the time the system was sold. The first time the CMC mentioned shed 
been told the system could be relocated, was in June 2021. I would have expected 
Miss H to have raised this earlier and to have provided more details about what she 
was told. Therefore, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Miss H was led to 
believe she could relocate the system to a new property.
Unfair relationship
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between 
a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed that it paid no commission to P 
and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im of the view that 
the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is unlikely to 
conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Conclusions
In summary, having carefully reviewed the available evidence, including Miss Hs 
recollections and the solar quote which Ive found formed a central part of the sales 
process, Im unable to conclude that P has made any untrue statements of fact that 
induced Miss H to purchase the solar panel system. Further, I currently dont think 
there are any other reasons why I should uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional decision the CMC said they werent persuaded the solar 
quotation had been produced by P or seen by Miss H until after the sale. They said, Our 
client only received a paper contract; they thought the quote had been produced post sale 
purely to defend this case.
The CMC also asked that we get in touch with Miss H and ask again about her recollections. 
We did that and Miss H told us that shed bought the solar panels because P said her 
electricity would be free and shed also make money from having the panels.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the comments Ive received in response to my provisional 
decision, but I dont think Ive been presented with anything which would cause me to depart 
from my provisional findings.
I remain satisfied that Miss H was supplied with the solar quotation either at the point of sale 
or shortly afterwards and certainly within a timeframe that would have given her an 
opportunity to exercise her cancellation rights if shed so wished. Ill refer again to Miss Hs 
own witness statements in which she said, at the second meeting [the salesperson] 
produced figures that stated we would have a very small amount we would have to pay due 
to the amount the solar would make. And also, When he left I did check my inbox and there 
was an email from the company with information attached. She also said that on the day of 
installation she refused to sign until she received my information and T&Cs, and when that 
came through, she signed.
Taking into account what Miss H said in these statements, and what we know about Ps 
sales practice from other similar cases, Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Miss H was provided with the solar quote weve seen.
Turning to Miss Hs recollection of the sale that she was told her electricity would be free and 
that shed actually make money from the solar panels, I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence that this is what P said to her. I think the solar quote makes it clear that, assuming 
she used 1323.35 KWh (around 50% of the estimated generation) she might save £202.60 
on her electricity bill in Year 1, not that shed pay nothing for her electricity. Miss Hs witness 
statement, which Ive referenced above, also suggests she was aware shed still be paying 
something.
I also dont think she was told shed make money from the solar panels. I think the solar 
quote shows that if she funded the purchase with a loan over 180 months, her loan 
repayments would be more than the combined estimated FIT payments and savings until 
year four, and that the total cost of the system and finance cost wouldnt be recouped until 
year 13.
Although I appreciate that Miss H is likely to be disappointed by this outcome, I dont find 
that the solar panel system was misrepresented or that its not performing in line with the 
contract. I also dont think the loan Shawbrook gave Miss H to fund the solar panel purchase 
was unaffordable, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman