DRN-2954276
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr B says that following the sad loss of his wife, he was experiencing difficult financial 
circumstances and suffering from poor mental health. He says that Halifax threatened to 
foreclose his mortgage and says that he applied for a loan, but this was turned down. Mr B 
says he accepted the URCA as he was desperate and also says that none of the benefits it 
provided were applicable to him.
What happened
In its final response letter to the complaint, Halifax did not think that the URCA had been 
mis-sold. But it did concede that Mr B had been struggling financially after the account had 
been sold to him and believes that it shouldve discussed the option of downgrading the 
account with Mr B, as a way to reduce his outgoings. So Halifax refunded Mr Bs account 
fees from April 2013 until September 2020.
Mr B was unhappy with Halifaxs offer, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold, and so concluded that Halifaxs offer was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I should also explain that where matters 
are in dispute and evidence is missing  as is the case here, I decide what I think was most 
likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Ive started off by considering whether Mr B was given a fair choice. 
I understand that Mr B said he was in desperate circumstances and felt he had no choice but 
to agree to the account. However, based on what I have seen, Im unable to say that the 
account was presented as being his only option. I say this as Mr B had held a fee-free 
account since 2008, so I think he knew, when agreeing to the URCA, that he didnt have to 
have it if he didnt want it. 
Mr B says he was in financial difficulties at the time of agreeing to the account. But having 
looked at his bank statements in the weeks leading up to the sale of the account, his account 
was largely in a credit balance. And on the occasion, it did go overdrawn, Mr B brought the 
account back into a credit balance. So the statements dont suggest that Mr B was in 
financial difficulties at the time - although its not in doubt that he did later go on to suffer 
from financial difficulties some time later. 
Also Mr B says that he applied for a loan at the time, but this was refused and so upgrading 
his account to a packaged account was his only option. But again, Halifax has not found any 
record of a loan application (successful or otherwise) around the time of the sale. So it 
seems that Mr Bs recollections of the sale and why he agreed to it, dont match the 
information that is available from when URCA was sold to him. Therefore I think its more 
likely that Mr B agreed to the account because he was attracted to the features it offered, 
rather than because he felt he had no choice.
I think that the account was sold on a non-advised basis. I say this because neither party 
have suggested that Halifax reviewed Mr Bs demands and needs during the sale of the 
account, or that the URCA was recommended on the basis that it was suitable for Mr Bs 
circumstances. This means that Halifax didnt have to check if it was right for Mr B. But it still 
had to give Mr B enough information about the account and benefits so that he was able to 
decide this for himself.
Mr B says that he had no need for any of the benefits the account provided. However, I can 
see on the account statements that Mr B was paying for breakdown cover prior to the sale of 
the account. And he then went on to claim on the URCA breakdown cover on 30 August 
2011. So Mr B was clearly made aware of the breakdown cover provided with the account 
and went on to make use of that cover. I can also see that Mr B took out Home Insurance 
with Halifax on the day the URCA was sold to him. And from what I have seen of historical 
versions of Halifaxs website, the URCA did offer 15% off the premium of Halifax home 
insurance policies at that time  so this mayve been another reason why Mr B agreed to it. 
Finally, the URCA also included a £300 fee-free overdraft buffer. This meant that as long as 
the account remained overdrawn by £300 or less, Mr B would not be charged the daily £1 
overdraft usage fee. And I can see that in the weeks leading up to the sale, although the 
account was occasionally overdrawn, it was generally not overdrawn by more than this 
amount. So again, I think this mayve been another reason why Mr B chose to upgrade his 
account to the URCA.
Due to how long ago the sale took place, its not clear if Mr B was given all of the important 
information about the account. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that 
makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been given more 
information about it.
Mr B has said that when the account was sold to him, he was in a vulnerable situation and 
says the bank staff knew about his circumstances. However, from everything I have seen, 
although Mr B mayve still been severely affected by the loss of his wife, it also appears that 
Mr B was still effectively operating his account and was sold a packaged account that 
included benefits that he was able to make use of. So in the circumstances Im unable to say 
that Halifax had somehow taken advantage of Mr B or that it had sold him an inappropriate 
product.
As such, based on what I have seen, on balance, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold. 
It therefore follows that I dont think Halifax should refund the account fees from when the 
URCA was sold to Mr B.
It does not appear to be in doubt that Mr B did go on to suffer financial difficulties. The notes 
that Halifax has provided show that it initially refunded overdraft charges in July 2012. And in 
April 2013 Mr B called Halifax to say that he no longer had an earned income and that he 
would be struggling to pay his mortgage going forwards. And, in relation to this complaint 
about Mr Bs URCA, one way Halifax couldve supported Mr B was to suggest downgrading 
his account to a fee-free one. 
So I think that Halifaxs offer to refund all of the URCA account fees (in addition to the earlier 
overdraft charges) from April 2013 to September 2020, along with compensatory interest at 
8% simple, was not unreasonable in the circumstances. But I should stress that this decision only relates to whether the URCA was mis-sold and 
Halifaxs treatment of Mr Bs financial difficulties as they relate to the URCA account. So Ive 
not assessed whether Halifax couldve done more to support Mr B with his financial 
difficulties, as that is beyond the remit of this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Mr Bs URCA was mis-sold. As such, I 
dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more than what it has already offered to 
do, with regards to Mr Bs complaint about the sale of his URCA.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman