DRN-4003532
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim 
under their rent guarantee and legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
C holds a rent guarantee and legal expenses insurance policy for the insured property that 
they let out on behalf of the landlord. It has been let to the same tenants (Mr and Mrs) since 
2014 and the policy has been in place since inception of the tenancy agreement. 
Both tenants were referenced in 2014 by an agent of the policy. Mr passed these checks 
subject to having a guarantor, but Mrs didnt. A guarantor was appointed who also passed 
the checks.
In late 2019, C were informed by Mr and Mrs that theyd separated. Mrs said she wanted to 
remain in the property and take over the tenancy. After checking with the landlord, C agreed 
she could subject to her passing the reference checks and having a suitable guarantor. She 
was sent the application forms but didnt return them.
From December 2019, Mr and Mrs failed to pay the rent on time and in full, accruing arrears. 
So C made a claim to Ageas for the unpaid rent and the legal costs to evict the tenants.
Ageas declined the claim. It said C hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions on 
the basis that there was no satisfactory reference in place for Mrs. C argued that there was a 
satisfactory reference in place for Mr and a guarantor. But Ageas said Mr had given his 
notice to leave under the tenancy, so he wasnt legally a tenant anymore or liable for the 
rent. As such, there was no satisfactory reference in place for the remaining tenant.
As C didnt agree, they raised a complaint. They said whilst Mrs had said shed stay on at 
the property alone, Mr didnt leave and remained in the property. Ageas declined the 
complaint, so C brought it to our service in 2021. 
In the meantime, the landlord took the tenants to court to evict them and was granted 
possession. The court order listed both Mr and Mrs as the defendants and ordered them 
both to leave the property. It also ordered them both to pay a sum of debt and interest to the 
landlord. C says this further proves that Mr was still living in the property.
The landlord complains that Ageas took several months to decide to decline the claim and 
by the time she was aware of its decision, Covid-19 restrictions were in place. This caused a 
significant delay on bringing legal action and by the time she regained possession of the 
property, the damage and lack of general maintenance was substantial. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and was satisfied that Ageas had fairly declined 
the claim. He said Mr had given notice under the tenancy which meant he wasnt legally 
liable for the rent from that point. But, as there was no reasonable expectation that a claim 
would be paid from the point Mr left, he considered it fair for Ageas to refund all premiums 
paid from that point onwards.
C didnt accept this outcome. They said Mr didnt give notice to leave under the tenancy as 
nothing was received in writing and the keys werent returned. Furthermore, he remained 
living there.
The landlord tells us that shes been able to recover the rent arrears in full. She wants Ageas 
to refund all premiums paid for this policy since inception in 2014 as well as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the claim being declined. 
Ageas also didnt agree. It said a claim had been paid so it was entitled to charge the full 
premiums for the period of insurance. And that C hadnt informed it for four months that Mr 
had vacated. But it agreed to make a partial refund.
As neither party accepted our Investigators proposed resolution to this complaint, it was 
passed to me, and I issued the following provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Cs policy say:
Conditions precedent to liability
For the insured to be eligible for coverthe landlord or the agent acting on the 
insureds behalf, must ensure that the following procedures are adhered to:
The landlord of agent mustensure that all tenants to be included in the tenancy 
have, in aggregate, been satisfactorily referenced and accepted for a minimum of the 
full monthly rent, or a higher amount, by the administrators referencing service prior 
to the start date of the tenancy. 
Its not in dispute that C obtained satisfactory references for Mr and Mrs as a couple, as well 
as a guarantor, at the start of the tenancy. And, until late 2019, its accepted that the policy 
terms had been complied with for this tenancy. 
What is in dispute is whether the above policy condition was breached when C was informed 
that Mr and Mrs had separated and Mrs intended to remain at the property as a sole tenant. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded it was. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs were on a periodic tenancy from 2017. For serving notice under this 
arrangement, the tenancy agreement says:
If this tenancy has not been ended by written notice at the end of the term it will 
normally continue as a periodic tenancy on a monthly basis. This agreement then 
may be terminated by the tenant giving not less than one months written notice to 
the landlord.
I havent seen anything to demonstrate that Mr served notice in writing to end his tenancy at 
the property. The landlord tells us she didnt receive anything in writing and C says they 
were only notified by Mr and Mrs independently that theyd separated  which I dont think 
means C shouldve automatically assumed Mr would be leaving. Whilst Mrs had said she 
wanted to remain in the property as the sole tenant, without written notice from Mr that he intended to leave, C and the landlord have no apparent grounds to remove him from the 
tenancy agreement.
Because of this, Im persuaded that when the rent arrears accrued from December 2019 Mr 
was still on the tenancy and liable to pay them. And as hed been satisfactorily referenced  
with a guarantor who had also been satisfactorily referenced  I cant fairly say the policy 
condition had been breached. 
Had I found that Mr had served notice in writing of his intention to leave, in the absence of 
anything from the court which specifically held Mr liable for unpaid rent arrears, Id be 
inclined to agree with Ageas that he was no longer a tenant.
As it stands, on the information available, Im not satisfied Mr gave written notice under the 
tenancy and so remained liable for rent at the time of the arrears. As such, I dont think 
Ageas has declined the claim fairly and Im intending to uphold the complaint and direct it to 
pay the claim, plus 8% simple interest per annum, minus any costs that have already been 
recovered. 
The landlord has asked for all premiums to be repaid from 2014 but I dont think this is a fair 
resolution to the complaint. C and the landlord have had the benefit of the policy in place 
since that time. And as I find that the claim should be paid, I cant direct a refund of 
premiums as this would mean there is no policy in place to pay it.
Ive thought about the landlords comments regarding the damage to the property and that 
this is a result of Ageas delay in making a claims decision. But I cant agree. There is 
nothing to suggest that, even if Ageas had made its decision quicker, that this claim wouldve 
have been held up by the pandemic given how closely the claim arose to the start of the 
lockdown. 
And finally, Ive thought about the landlords request for compensation. But C is the 
policyholder and as the landlord isnt named on it, I cant award anything to her in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. But I do recognise the inconvenience C 
has experienced as a result of Ageas actions and for this reason Im inclined to award £150 
compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
C has asked for clarification on my proposed redress and queried whether this would include 
the refund of premiums and the legal costs incurred to evict the tenants.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
In answer to Cs question, I must clarify that I havent awarded a refund of any policy 
premiums. Our Investigator recommended that premiums paid from the point Mr left the 
property be refunded but neither C nor Ageas agreed to this, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.Ive awarded payment of the claim  which I understand was for the legal costs of eviction 
and rent arrears  in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. By this, I mean that 
Ageas can apply the policys terms and conditions excluding the ones I deemed to be 
unfairly applied. It should apply 8% simple interest per annum to the claim payment and it 
can deduct any costs that have already been recovered. 
In addition, Im awarding £150 compensation for Cs inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay the claim for rent guarantee and legal expenses in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions, plus 8% simple interest per annum and deducting any costs 
that have already been recovered.
pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman