DRN-2635533
The complaint
Mr R complains because The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal 
London) has stopped paying a claim under his income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R holds an income protection insurance policy, provided by Royal London.
Mr R registered a claim under his policy as he was unable to work due to sickness. Royal
London accepted and paid Mr Rs claim for several years.
In 2016, Royal London requested up-to-date medical information about Mr Rs medical
condition and treatment. Royal London didnt receive this information, so it stopped paying
Mr Rs claim in September of that year.
In March 2017, Mr R sent a medical certificate from his GP to Royal London. Royal London 
again asked Mr R for further details of the treatment he was receiving. Mr R said the team
who were treating him had forbidden his medical report from 2016 to be released into the 
public domain. But Mr R said he had medical certificates from his GP for the period he was
claiming for, was on medication and was awaiting the commencement of NHS treatment for
his condition. Royal London said it still needed additional medical evidence in support of
Mr Rs claim, but explained any information sent to it would be held confidentially.
Mr R contacted Royal London again in June 2018 and said he wished to make a new claim.
Royal London referred Mr R for an independent medical assessment. Mr R attended the
assessment but refused to give his consent for the report to be released to Royal London.
Amongst other things, Mr R said he didnt feel the report accurately reflected his condition.
Royal London said it wouldnt be considering Mr Rs claim any further, but if Mr R wished to
provide additional medical evidence then he could do so.
Unhappy, Mr R brought his complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think Royal London had 
acted unfairly by terminating Mr Rs claim. Mr R didnt agree with our investigators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr Rs complaint in February 2021. In it, I said;
Mr Rs policy provides for a benefit to be paid to him if he is incapacitated due to sickness.
The definition of sickness includes mental failure, which is stated to include situations
where the policyholder:
has failed to respond to optimal treatment and requires the need for continuous
psychotropic medication.
The policy goes on to say:
All diagnoses must be made by a consultant at a hospitalor allied health specialist
relevant to the person covereds conditions in order to assess function and
restrictions and limitations and be confirmed by our Chief Medical Officer.
Mr R demonstrated that he met the policy criteria when he first made his claim. However,
this doesnt mean his claim will continue to be paid indefinitely. An insurer is entitled to
review an income protection insurance claim like Mr Rs at reasonable intervals to satisfy
itself that the policyholder continues to meet the policy criteria for a benefit to be paid. This
includes seeking new, updated medical evidence from professionals who specialise in the
treatment of the policyholders particular medical condition.
While Mr R has provided certificates about his fitness to work from his GP, these alone will
often not contain sufficient information to satisfy the policy requirements for an income
protection insurance benefit to be paid. Insurers will usually require more detailed evidence
from specialist practitioners to demonstrate that a policyholder meets the policy definition of
incapacitated. This is reflected in the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy which Ive
quoted above.
Ive considered all the medical evidence which Ive been provided with relating to the period
from September 2016 onwards. This includes:
a statement of fitness for work from Mr Rs GP dated March 2017, saying Mr R was
not fit for work at the time;
a letter from a psychological wellbeing practitioner dated April 2017, outlining that
Mr R was experiencing severe symptoms and offering him individual counselling
sessions;
a letter from a counsellor dated May 2017, stating that Mr R had requested to be
discharged from the service as he felt unable to engage in counselling at the time;
a letter from Mr Rs GP dated September 2018 confirming Mr R had been continuing
to take medication and had been referred back to a specialist team to manage his
condition.
I dont think this evidence demonstrates that Mr R continued to meet the policy criteria for
payment of a claim after September 2016. I understand Mr R says he wanted to make a new
claim but, regardless of whether the claim was treated as new or as a continuation of the
existing one, I dont think the medical evidence shows that Mr R met the policy definitions to
entitle him to claim a benefit for being incapacitated.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy say Royal London may ask for reasonable
evidence it needs to consider a claim, and it wont pay a claim if medical evidence is not
supplied when it asks for this.
Mr R chose not to provide Royal London with either the report from the team that were
treating him in 2016 or with the report from the independent medical expert who he agreed
to see in 2018. The claim forms which Mr R provided to Royal London set out information
about access to medical reports, including Mr Rs right to insist that a statement of his views
is attached to any medical report. Royal London gave Mr R a number of opportunities to
provide this evidence, explaining to him that any information would be held in confidence
and providing him with reassurances that he could comment on the specific content of any
reports. Royal London also explained to Mr R that he can provide it with new or further
medical information if he wishes. When Mr R didnt provide either report or any additional
evidence, Royal London said it wouldnt be considering his claim any further.I dont think Royal London has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, and I
dont think Royal London needs to pay for a second opinion for Mr R  Mr R has the option
of obtaining a second opinion at his own expense if he wants Royal London to reconsider
the matter.
Ive considered everything Mr R has said about the conduct of the medical expert, but Mr Rs
comments dont change my provisional decision. Many of the concerns Mr R has raised are
more appropriately directed to the doctor directly.
Mr R has also said that Royal London was unsympathetic while talking to him about his
claim from July 2018 to May 2019. Royal London has now provided this service with
recordings of several telephone calls from this time period. Having listened to these calls, I
dont think Royal London was unsympathetic. And, even if I agreed with Mr R on this point, it
still wouldnt be fair to ask Royal London to continue paying his claim when I dont think the
available medical evidence supports this conclusion.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I dont intend to ask Royal London to do anything further.
Royal London accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr R responded to my provisional decision and said he had now decided to release the 
medical information which Royal London had previously requested. Mr R explained that any 
gaps between treatment and/or his failure to correspond with Royal London was due to his 
incapacity, and provided the following medical evidence;
case notes from a mental health service organisation spanning a time period from 
September 2015 to November 2018;
a letter from a CBT therapist dated 5 November 2018;
a report from a consultant psychiatrist dated January 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint which Mr R has brought to us, and the one which Im considering in this 
decision, is about Royal Londons termination of his claim based on the medical information 
that was available to it at the time. And, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont 
think Royal Londons decision to do this was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr R has now provided this service with the additional medical information which Royal 
London was requesting. In its final response letter, Royal London offered to consider any 
new or further information which Mr R wished to provide. Royal London needs to be given a 
reasonable opportunity to consider and assess the additional medical information provided 
by Mr R  and decide whether it has any impact on its decision to terminate his claim - 
before I can comment on it. 
Therefore, Mr R will need to send the additional medical information to Royal London so it 
can assess his claim again, taking the new evidence into account. If Mr R is unhappy with 
the outcome of that assessment, he has the option of bringing a new complaint to our 
service if he wishes to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman