DRN-3037885
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix Life) has refused to 
reissue a cheque to him that he had not previously cashed. 
What happened
In December 1998 Phoenix Life changed from a private company to a publicly trading 
company. This process is called demutualisation.
As part of the demutualisation process Mr D was entitled to funds that he was sent in the 
post as a cheque.in January 2000. Mr D did not discover the letter until some 20 years later 
in May 2020.
Phoenix Life refused to reissue the cheque, it said that the rules around the demutualisation 
meant any funds not claimed within six years would be forfeited.
Our Investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint and thought Phoenix Life had acted fairly, and 
importantly, in line with the rules that applied to the demutualisation. Mr D disagreed he felt 
the decision made to not reissue the cheque to him was unfair.
As Mr D did not agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at individual complaints, and in this case to decide if Phoenix life acted 
fairly and within the rules when it made the decision not to reissue the cheque to Mr D.
The rules of the demutualisation state:
Any Membership Compensation which has remained unclaimed for six years from the 
Effective Date (1 January 2000) shall be forfeited.
With the above in mind Mr D did not claim his funds within the six years allowed. So, 
Phoenix Life has acted within the rules of the demutualisation process. 
Mr D has explained that he did not open the letter at the time. This could have been for a 
number of reasons including that it was delivered to a neighbour for example and that the 
neighbour posted it to his home some time later. Mr D says if the letter was sent by recorded 
delivery it would have signified the importance of the letter and meant it was more likely to 
be opened at the time.
Mr D has also said Phoenix Life should have chased him when it saw he had not claimed the 
funds, and that the funds should not have been transferred to Phoenix Lifes mutual fund 
when they werent claimed.
I accept that Mr D did not open the letter around the time it was sent to him, but the fact that 
he had it in his possession 20 years later suggests to me that it was successfully delivered to 
his address. While we cant be sure of what happened with the letter over the years Phoenix 
Life has fulfilled its obligations under the rules that applied at the time. I have not seen 
enough evidence to suggest anything went wrong with the postal service at the time.
As Mr D has stated, Phoenix Life could have chosen a different delivery method for the 
letter, but the postal service it chose was a recognised efficient service and it was not under 
any obligation to use an alternative method. So, I cant say this method was inadequate. 
Especially when I consider that the letter was found within Mr Ds records some 20 years 
later.
Phoenix Life could have done more by chasing members that had not claimed the funds they 
were issued. But under the rules that applied at the time they had no obligation to. As Ive 
stated above Phoenix Life followed the rules that applied at the time, So I am unable to say it 
should do anything differently now.
The unclaimed funds went into the mutual fund after six years. I can see Mr D feels this is 
unfair, but again Phoenix Life followed the rules that applied at the time So I cant say it did 
anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman