DRN-3275559
The complaint
S Ltd, represented by Mr B, complained that Worldpay (UK) Limited hadnt given it the 
opportunity to dispute two chargeback payments totalling £3,825. 
What happened
On 22 December 2020, S Ltd processed a card payment for £2,895. The customer wasnt 
present. There was another card payment using the same card on 5 January 2021, this time 
for £930.
On 17 January, Worldpay sent a paper letter to S Ltds business address, saying that the 
customers card issuer had raised a chargeback dispute against the £2,895 transaction. 
There was a second letter about the £930 transaction on 21 January. The reason for the 
chargeback claim was that the genuine card holder hadnt authorised the transactions, and 
their card had been used fraudulently to buy the tickets with S Ltds business. Worldpay also 
put the dispute notifications on S Ltds Worldpay dashboard online.
Worldpay told S Ltd that it could try to defend the chargeback on S Ltds behalf. To do this, S 
Ltd would need to send copies of all information about the transaction, within ten days of the 
date of the correspondence. The letter said Unfortunately if the reply is late or there is 
insufficient or illegible information then we cant defend your position under Card Scheme 
Rules. It also gave information about how to contact Worldpay and how to find out more 
information about chargebacks.
On 16 February, Mr B noticed that £3,825 had been debited from S Ltds account. He 
checked his Worldpay terminal, and saw that there had been two disputed charges. 
The next morning, 17 February, he rang Worldpay, and explained that because of the covid 
pandemic, the office to which Worldpays letters had been sent was closed. The business 
was running from home. So he hadnt received the letters.
Mr B provided Worldpay with information about the disputed payments. He said hed 
supplied the customers name from the card, address, phone number and email address, but 
Worldpay told him the card firm didnt check any of these details against the card account. 
Worldpay said that it was too late to dispute the chargeback, and advised him about the risk 
of transactions with the customer not present.
Mr B complained, and provided Worldpay with details of the fraudulent transactions. He also 
contacted his professional body which managed S Ltds relationship and account with 
Worldpay, which told him that there was a 30 day limit on chargeback replies. Mr B 
complained to Worldpay that hed been within this limit when hed first contacted Worldpay 
on 17 February. He also contacted Action Fraud and the police.
In its final response, Worldpay didnt uphold S Ltds complaint. It said that card payments are 
governed by rules issued by the card schemes  and Worldpay, like all other acquirers, 
was bound by these. Worldpay referred S Ltd to the Customer Operating Instructions, which 
S Ltd had accepted when it had opened the Worldpay account. And it pointed out that 
customer not present transactions were risky. It said the best way to take transactions was 
through a card present, chip and PIN verified, or if online through a system called 3D secure. 
Worldpay recognised that fraud had been committed against S Ltd, which had suffered a 
financial loss, and suggested S Ltd should contact Action Fraud, which Mr B had already 
done. Finally, in response to Mr Bs statement that he hadnt received the letters because of 
Covid, Worldpay explained that the chargebacks had also been visible for S Ltd to view and 
defend online through its Worldpay dashboard.
S Ltd, represented by Mr B, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold S Ltds complaint. He set out sections of the Customer 
Operating Instructions about the risks of transactions when customers werent present. And 
he said that it was S Ltds responsibility to be aware of the online dashboard, and he hadnt 
seen anything to suggest S Ltd had made Worldpay aware of a change in communication 
preferences.
S Ltd, represented by Mr B, didnt agree. Mr B explained that if hed found out about the 
fraud sooner, he might have been able to cancel the ticket which the fraudulent payment had 
been for. He also said that Worldpay was very quick to invoice S Ltd, and ring up to try to 
sell products, but only sent a letter to advise of a chargeback at a time when everyone was 
working from home. He also said that everyone else had been protected apart from him, a 
small business trying to survive in a pandemic  and in a business sector that had been 
particularly badly hit. He said the genuine cardholder had probably given away his details 
somehow. That person had been given a refund with no questions asked, while he was the 
one who had the financial loss which was grossly unfair. Worldpay hadnt even checked the 
name on the transaction  which was the name of the fraudster - against that of the genuine 
account holder.  S Ltd said that it wasnt right that he had no means of recourse. Mr B asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that S Ltd was the victim of a fraud. I do understand how stressful this 
can be, especially for a small business. I also recognise Mr Bs frustration that his small 
business ended up with the loss, when none of the other parties involved have had to take 
any share of this. I sympathise with this, but my role is to consider the individual 
circumstances of S Ltds complaint specifically against Worldpay. So I cant  for instance, 
assess whether S Ltd would have been able to cancel the ticket provided to the fraudster if it 
had found out earlier. My role is specifically to look at whether Worldpay acted fairly and 
reasonably in this matter.
Notifying S Ltd of the chargeback dispute
I asked both S Ltd and Worldpay for more information about the online dashboard to which 
Worldpay sent the electronic notification of the chargeback  because I wanted to 
understand whether it was a valid alternative to the postal letter, during the pandemic when 
many business premises were closed.
Mr B explained that the dashboard is a separate system from the virtual payment terminal, 
and is mainly used for invoice delivery. He receives an email every time an invoice is ready, alerting him to look at the dashboard. He didnt receive an email advising him to look at the 
dashboard because of the chargeback  and he pointed out that if Worldpay had the facility 
to send an email telling him to look at the dashboard when theres an invoice, it could have 
done so when there was a chargeback. He also said that Worldpay often contacts him by 
phone or email, when processing invoices or trying to sell him upgrades. So he didnt think it 
was right that for something as important as this, Worldpay had only sent a letter, when it 
was pretty obvious that people would be working from home in line with government 
regulations.
Worldpays reply confirmed that the dashboard was primarily used for invoices, but said it 
was used for other things too. It said that Worldpay had at no point advised that it would 
send notifications by any other means apart from by letter. And it said the way Worldpay 
communicated was at Worldpays discretion  not subject to a merchants preference. 
Although I accept Worldpays statement that it had no contractual obligation to send dispute 
notification other than by letter, theres certainly an argument here to say that Worldpay 
could have been more flexible. This problem arose during a time when non-essential retail 
businesses, such as S Ltd, had to close. So I can see it may have helped to have provided a 
notification here in a different way.
From what Ive been told about the dashboard, this wasnt something which S Ltd had a 
contractual responsibility to check frequently. Given that S Ltd explained that Worldpays 
practice is to email to advise that an invoice was on the dashboard to be viewed, I can 
understand Mr Bs frustration that it doesnt do that in respect of a dispute notification. And I 
can appreciate his view of the fact that Worldpay would phone him to try to sell him an 
upgrade  but not for something like this, which was important. 
But, even taking this all into account, I then have to consider whether, if S Ltd had 
responded in time, the information it could have provided would have made any difference. I 
appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that Worldpay processed the transaction without checking 
details such as the cardholders phone number and email address. But the fundamental 
issue here is that this was a chargeback for a Card not present transaction. Worldpays 
terms and conditions cover this in its Customer Operating Instructions. For example, section 
3.2.4 says:
CNP transactions are considered high-risk because you have no opportunity physically to 
check the card or meet the cardholderTake extra care with CNP payments because you 
will be financially liable if a transaction is confirmed as invalid or fraudulent.
So, on balance, I find that the chargeback wasnt likely to succeed. I can tell from the phone 
calls that Mr B had with this service that hes now very aware of these risks and has 
changed his approach to such transactions. Although I sympathise with S Ltd, I cant uphold 
its complaint and order Worldpay to refund S Ltd for the transaction - because I think its 
more likely than not that it wouldnt have meant that the chargeback would have succeeded 
if S had had the opportunity to dispute the chargeback.
Finally, if this complaint had been brought by Mr B as an individual, I may have been able to 
consider compensation for the trouble and upset which Worldpay caused by failing to adopt 
a flexible approach to notifying him of the chargeback during the pandemic. But the 
approach to compensation for companies is different, and we dont award compensation for 
trouble and upset to a business. Thats because a limited company cant experience 
distress, pain or suffering in the same way an individual person can.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman