DRN-2598654
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way One Insurance Limited has administered the renewal 
of their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs K arranged their home insurance through One. In early March 2020, they 
received renewal documents because their policy was due to renew on 31 March 2020. Mr 
and Mrs K werent happy with the price and so Mrs K tried to get in touch with One. Due to 
Covid-19, she wasnt able to get through on the phone and so Mrs K sent emails asking for 
the policy not to be renewed. It later turned out that Mrs K had emailed unmonitored 
accounts at One and the policy credit provider. This meant One never received her request. 
So the policy renewed on 31 March 2020.
In the meantime, Mr K took out another policy which was also ultimately arranged by One. 
But Mr K received a cancellation letter a short time later and the direct debit for the new 
policy was cancelled at the bank. On this basis, Mr and Mrs K took out a new policy through 
and with a separate insurer.
However, Mr and Mrs K noticed that One had continued to debit payments for the original 
policy, which they thought theyd cancelled. They were unhappy with the way One had 
administered the policy and they asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator was satisfied that Mr and Mrs K had intended to cancel their 
policy. As One had agreed to refund some amounts, she felt that the fair and reasonable 
outcome to the complaint was for it to refund any outstanding debits it had taken from Mr 
and Mrs Ks account for both the policy that had renewed in March and the second policy 
with it which appeared One had cancelled.
Mr and Mrs K said that theyd paid out £87.07 and had been refunded £61.79. Theyd also 
paid a deposit of around £19.55 for the second policy.
One disagreed with the investigator. It said that while Mrs K had demonstrated an intention 
to cancel her policy, it didnt mean that she had.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think One has treated Mr and Mrs K fairly. Ill explain why.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint, although its clear that theres been a 
great deal of discussion between our investigator, One and Mr and Mrs K. Instead of 
considering each of those interactions, Ive focused instead on what I think are the 
outstanding issues.
One appears to now accept that Mr and Mrs K hadnt intended for their policy to renew in 
March 2020. Ive seen copies of emails that Mrs K sent both to One and the policy credit 
provider which explained that she didnt want the renewal to go ahead. She says she tried to 
call One but wasnt able to get through. Given the logistical difficulties posed to businesses 
by Covid-19 around that time, I find this plausible. And Mrs Ks provided me with a 
screenshot she took when she tried to contact One through its live chat, which said it wasnt 
available due to staffing issues caused by Covid-19. On this basis, Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs K have clearly shown that they didnt want to renew their policy.
I do accept though that Mrs K emailed unmonitored do not reply accounts, so it was 
impossible for her requests to be picked up. However, its clear to me that Mr and Mrs K did 
believe theyd taken steps to cancel their policy  it seems unlikely theyd have chosen to 
take out a new policy through One, or indeed through another insurer after the cancellation 
of the second policy, if they believed they still had their original policy in place. And given the 
challenges Covid-19 provided, I think that Mr and Mrs K did take reasonable steps to cancel 
their policy, given they werent able to contact One by phone or live chat. And I think then 
that the reasonable outcome here is for One to refund Mr and Mrs K any outstanding 
amounts for the policy which renewed in March 2020. Based on Mr and Mrs Ks calculation, 
it seems that this should be £25.28.
Mr and Mrs K also have shown they paid an amount of £19.55 to One Call on 27 March 
2020, which they say was for the second policy they took out through One. One says though 
that no payments were taken for the second policy. The evidence Mr and Mrs K have sent 
us seems to tally up with the records One holds about Mr and Mrs Ks second policy  which 
shows an IPID and policy summary were issued on 28 March 2020  a day later. I cant see 
that One got this payment though, or what it was for.
Ones records show the direct debit for this policy was cancelled on 2 April 2020  although 
it isnt clear whether this was done by Mr and Mrs K or by One. It also isnt clear from the 
receipt if this was refunded back to their account  as Mr and Mrs Ks record says £19.55  
refunded. Theres no evidence on Ones records to suggest that such a refund was actioned 
by it though. In either case, it seems that as the first policy was still in force following its 
renewal, the second policy was provided dual cover while it was live. I accept however, that 
a refund of premium for dual insurance would usually be offered by the insurer, rather than a 
broker. So strictly, I dont think One is liable for this amount.
In this particular case, I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for One to pay Mr and 
Mrs K a total amount of £50 as compensation for its administration of their policy. That takes 
into account the remaining refund amount for the first policy which Im satisfied should be 
paid back to Mr and Mrs K. The remaining amount is to recognise the inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs K have been put to by Ones handling of their renewal. The investigator explained to 
One that I was likely to make such an award to resolve the case. Mr and Mrs K have had to 
provide substantial evidence to show the payments theyve made, which at times, One 
hasnt recognised. So Im satisfied that £50 is a fair award to both refund Mr and Mrs K and 
to recognise the impact its handling of their policy has had on them.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct One Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs K £50.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman