DRN-2004737
The complaint
Mr C complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to turn down his private 
medical insurance claim. 
What happened
On 14 May 2019 Mr C took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA. It was taken out 
on a moratorium basis, which meant that conditions in the previous five years wouldnt be 
covered, until hed had a two year trouble-free period. 
Mr C made a claim after being advised in August 2019 that he needed cataract surgery in 
both eyes. 
AXA turned down the claim, as it thought the problems with Mr Cs eyes had started before 
he took out the policy, and therefore the claim fell under the moratorium. Unhappy with this, 
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought, based on the 
evidence, it had been reasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr Cs claim fell under the 
moratorium. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me 
to consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains it calls conditions the customer was aware of when they joined pre-
existing conditions. These are defined as:
any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover:
Whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
The policy says the following about a moratorium:
you wont have cover for treatment of medical problems you had in the five years before 
you joined us until:
youve been a member for two years in a row, and 
youve had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that have been trouble-
free from that condition.
Mr C had his eyes checked by his optician in August 2019. His optician completed a claim 
form on 9 September 2019 and said he was first consulted by Mr C on 9 August 2019. The 
form asked For how long has the patient been aware that something is wrong? The optician 
answered six months.
As that meant Mr C had been experiencing symptoms prior to the date the policy started, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that his claim fell under the moratorium.
Mr C later arranged for his optician to complete a second form. In response to the question 
For how long has the patient been aware that something is wrong?, the optician answered 
two months and then said Gradual onset worsening from June 2019. 
Given the conflicting timeframes, AXA contacted the optician for clarification. He said:
Mr [C] presented complaining of a drop in vision from his previous appointment with us. 
Due to the progressive nature of cataracts, symptoms would have been present but not 
clinically ready for operation/referral at this time. As a result, my original form indicated 
earliest report of symptoms but not significant enough to warrant action at that time. Mr [C] 
informed me of this and I re-completed the form indicating symptoms and need for clinical 
intervention  would  be from the day of his appointment  with myself.
It would therefore seem that the six-month timeframe was based on the date Mr C started 
experiencing symptoms, and the two-month time frame was based on the date he needed 
clinical intervention. Based on this evidence, as Mr C was experiencing symptoms of his 
condition before the policy was taken out, his claim falls under the moratorium. 
On 1 November 2019, the optician provided further information to Mr C. He said that from 
reviewing the notes of the August 2019 appointment, the initial complaint recorded was a 
deterioration in distance vision noted, with no timescale mentioned. The optician confirmed 
that timescale was discussed when he completed the claim form and the form was 
completed based on those discussions. The optician acknowledged that possible 
miscommunication could have occurred during the conversation, but added that the form 
was handed to Mr C to check the details were correct. 
It appears that the six-month timescale was based on discussions that took place when Mr C 
asked the optician to complete the claim form in September 2019, rather than during the 
August 2019 appointment. However, this would still take mean that Mr C was aware 
something was wrong with his eyes sometime before the policy was taken out. 
Whilst I understand Mr C disagrees that he told the optician hed experienced symptoms for 
six months, I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the information provided by the 
optician, and therefore turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman