DRN-3555393
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way a chargeback claim was handled by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr S paid a £250 deposit using his credit card to a car dealer (the merchant) in February 
2021. Mr S has told us he went on to settle the outstanding balance via a bank transfer 
from his HSBC account.
On delivery of the car, Mr S noticed a tyre was worn beyond the legal limit and contacted 
the merchant. But Mr S has explained the merchant wasnt willing to help him so he 
contacted HSBC to raise a claim.
On 18 February 2021 Mr S raised a dispute with HSBC, which progressed it as a 
chargeback. As part of the investigation, HSBC asked Mr S to provide some information 
about his claim. Mr S forwarded pictures of the tyre in question, email exchanges with the 
merchant, confirmation of deposit paid and name of the merchant.
Due to delays at HSBC, the claim wasnt looked at. Mr S went on to raise a complaint 
about the delay and HSBC sent him a response in April 2021. HSBC apologised for the 
delays.
The claim was reviewed in July 2021 and HSBC asked Mr S to provide further information. 
HSBC asked for a cover letter setting out the events, invoice and correspondence with the 
merchant. Mr S responded to say hed already sent HSBC the information requested back 
in February 2021.
On 30 September 2021 HSBC got in touch with Mr S to say it wouldnt help with his claim. 
HSBC said Mr S had failed to provide the information it had asked for.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
think HSBC had acted unfairly when it declined Mr S chargeback claim on the basis that 
he didnt send the evidence provided. The investor also said Mr S could raise another 
chargeback or Section 75 dispute if he wished.
Mr S asked to appeal and pointed out both the deposit and bank transfer were funded via 
HSBC accounts. Mr S also said he believed that under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act (CCA) HSBC was jointly responsible for the goods he purchased, along with the 
merchant. Mr S said that if HSBC had given him a clear response in July 2021 he wouldve 
provided more information. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator. Based on the information Ive seen, I think 
Mr S case should be upheld. Ill explain why.
HSBC says Mr S failed to provide the information it asked for during its investigation so it 
correctly declined his claim. But I dont think thats fair. HSBC sent Mr S a chargeback 
claims form which he quickly completed and returned in February 2021. Its clear Mr S put 
some detail into the form, providing lots of pictures that detailed his concern and wear on 
the tyre. Mr S also sent evidence that hed tried to resolve the issue with the merchant 
without success and explained the nature of his claim. The deposit amount of £250 was 
quoted and the name of the merchant was given. I accept the information provided didnt 
include an invoice.
Mr S claim then sat for around five months due to delays with HSBC caused by Covid. In 
July 2021, HSBC sent asked Mr S for more information, but I think its reasonable to say its 
request was very generic in nature. HSBC asked for a detailed cover letter, but Mr S had 
already provided the detail of his claim in February 2021, five months earlier. HSBC asked 
for dates, but that had already been provided. HSBC asked for correspondence with the 
merchant which Mr S had, again, already provided. The pictures Mr S provided showed a 
worn tyre and Im not sure what other details he couldve given. The only thing I can see 
that HSBC required was the invoice.
I dont think its unreasonable for Mr S to expect clear guidance from HSBC during the 
process of assessing his claim. I note Mr S responded to HSBC on 9 July 2021 and 
confirmed his view that the information requested had already been supplied. As far as the 
evidence HSBC has provided so far shows, the next event was HSBCs decision to decline 
the claim on 30 September 2021, nearly three months later. Im not persuaded thats fair. 
Had someone simply asked Mr S to provide an invoice or more specific information about 
his claim, Im satisfied he wouldve responded.
I understand HSBC was under pressure due to Covid in 2021 and that impacted timescales 
for assessing chargeback claims. But, I dont think the way Mr S claim was handled was 
fair. Given the length of time between each event, I think HSBC shouldve made it 
especially clear what it wanted. And, as Ive said above, much of the information HSBC 
asked for appears to have been on file.
I further note that Mr S has told us he thought a Section 75 claim had been raised, not 
a chargeback. Its not clear why HSBC looked at Mr S claim as a chargeback instead 
of a Section 75 claim.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr S complaint. I need to 
decide how to fairly resolve the issues raised. Given the way Mr S chargeback claim was 
handled and the timescales involved Im not persuaded that its fair for Mr S to have to 
raise a new case. I also suspect there may now be issues with scheme time limits. Mr S 
has told us the car he received had a worn tyre that required immediate replacement. I 
think the fairest way to resolve Mr S complaint is for HSBC to compensate Mr S for the 
cost of his tyre  subject to evidence of the purchase.
I think its also fair to say the way Mr S claim was handled caused some distress and 
inconvenience. So I also intend to tell HSBC to pay Mr S £150 for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted to make before I reached my final decision. Mr S responded and said he was pleased with the 
provisional decision and had nothing further to add. We didnt hear back from HSBC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr S complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- On receipt of evidence to show Mr S purchased a new tyre in February 2021, HSBC 
should refund the cost
- Pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman