DRN-2214290
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim for 
storm damage to their roof.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M had buildings insurance with AXA. The policy was in joint names but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mrs M throughout my decision.
After noticing rain coming through her ceiling, Mrs M made a claim under her buildings 
insurance for damage to her roof which she believed was caused by a named storm. AXAs 
surveyor inspected the damage but, based on the expert report, it declined Mrs Ms claim. 
AXA said that there hadnt been a storm and the damage to the roof was a result of wear 
and tear and its existing poor condition. 
Mrs M disputed AXAs view that there wasnt a storm and asked it to reconsider the claim. 
She said it had used old photos to assess the condition of her roof. AXA said that although 
some photos were several years old, the surveyor had taken photos on the day of inspection 
which it used when making its decision. Mrs M still didnt think AXA had properly considered 
her claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He thought that there had been storm 
conditions around the time of Mrs Ms claim, but he thought the experts report about the 
condition of the roof carried weight. For that reason, he thought that the damage was due to 
wear and tear rather than a one-off incident.
Mrs M was happy that our investigator had agreed there were storm conditions, but she 
didnt agree with the rest of the findings. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs M had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain.
Mrs M says the storm damaged her roof, allowing rain to come into her home and through 
the ceiling. AXA didnt agree thered been a storm. Ive looked at the weather reports from 
that time and Mrs Ms policy, which defines a storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) which are the equivalent
to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale.
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour.
Weather reports show that there was a peak gust of 64 mph, but no significant rainfall. Im 
satisfied that the wind speed met the definition given in Mrs Ms policy, therefore I agree that 
there was a storm.
Mrs Ms policy covers her home for storm damage, but there are exclusions to this. The 
policy states:
Well maintained homes are only damaged by the most extreme weather conditions  so 
damage caused by normal weather is not covered by your home insurance. Its therefore 
important to take care of your home and make sure its kept in a good state of repair. 
In particular, havingloose or damaged roof tiles could affect your cover should you have a 
loss.
The policy also says:
We will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense caused by:
1. Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet 
rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of 
your buildings and its contents.
I think the policy is clear about what it doesnt cover but it is AXAs responsibility to show that 
an exclusion clause applies if it relies on that to decline a claim. In this case, AXA declined 
Mrs Ms claim because of the poor condition of her roof caused by gradual deterioration. 
So, Ive thought about whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a 
storm, and whether it mightve been the main cause of the damage. Its not uncommon for 
roof slates to become dislodged during extremely strong winds. In those instances Id expect 
to see an obvious area of damage which isnt in keeping with the rest of the roof. Ive looked 
at the photos provided by AXAs surveyor, taken on the day of inspection. The report and 
photos clearly show numerous areas of damage to both front and back of Mrs Ms roof which 
is consistent with overall poor condition. There are many broken, cracked and dislodged 
slates; moss growing in some areas, and deteriorating mortar. In comparison to the newer 
roofs of the adjoining property and neighbouring houses, which are visible in eight year old 
online images, theres a marked difference in the condition of Mrs Ms roof. The surveyor 
commented on this observation and it suggests many of the houses built at that time have 
needed a new roof. This lends weight to AXAs belief that Mrs Ms roof damage was due to 
gradual deterioration.
I understand that Mrs M had parts of the roof repaired just after she bought the house and 
then as and when necessary, so she believes it was watertight and windproofed. I dont 
doubt what she has said about the repairs. But making repairs to the roof doesnt mean its 
in an overall good condition, and its possible that over time the smaller ad hoc repairs have 
allowed the roof to become less resistant to stronger weather conditions. Mrs M didnt 
provide an expert report to contradict AXAs findings, so Im persuaded by the surveyors 
report on this point.
Im not doubting that slates became loose during a storm and allowed the rain to enter Mrs 
Ms home. But I think that the poor condition of the roof, as described by the surveyor, meant 
that it offered less resistance to the winds than could reasonably be expected of a roof in 
good condition. Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the storm simply revealed that 
the roof had gradually deteriorated, and the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
Therefore, I think it was fair for AXA to decline Mrs Ms claim under the policy exclusions.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms and Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman