DRN-3022231
The complaint
Ms J and Mr J complain about the way Link Financial Outsourcing Limited managed an 
outstanding debt, they owe to it, since 2005, and secondly that they have unfairly been 
applying interest to that debt.
The Link Financial Outsourcing Limited was previously called another name, for ease of 
reading throughout this decision I will refer to them only as Link Financial.
What happened
Ms J and Mr J took out a loan in July 2000 with Bank A. Due to a change in circumstances
they fell behind with the loan. Bank A sold the account to Link Financial in July 2004.
From 2004 Mr J had an arrangement to pay £50 per month towards the loan debt, with Link
Financial. This arrangement continued until 2011, when due to Mr Js affordability it reduced
to a payment of £5 per month. Mr J stopped making contributions towards the debt in
October 2014.
In the original credit agreement, it states the interest rate to be 23.8% APR. From the time of
it purchasing the loan account, Link Financial continued to apply interest to it until April 2010,
even though Mr J had asked it to stop. So, the amount owing has increased over the time it
has owned the account.
Mr J has had the majority of the contact with Link Financial over the years and he feels that it
has been mismanaged. And so on behalf of himself and Ms J, he complained to Link
Financial. Link Financial didnt uphold the complaint and told Mr J he was still liable for the 
full amount outstanding. Mr J then brought his and Ms Js complaint to this service.
Although he was unhappy with Link Financials overall management of the account he
specifically complained about the following points:
Link Financial acted unfairly in continuing to apply interest to the account until 2010
Mr J had made an unsuccessful PPI claim under the original agreement and he didn't 
feel this was fair and so feels the PPI had been mis-sold to him
The way Link Financial has pursued the debt over the last 15 years
the debt should now be statute barred
the amount Link Financial is pursuing is incorrect
Link Financial had taken too long to provide him with a copy of the original credit 
agreement when he had requested it.
Link Financial would not tell him how much it had purchased the account for when he 
asked
Link Financial has changed its name more than once and contacted him under those 
different names
Mr J should not be liable for the full amount of the debt as both he and Ms J took the 
loan as joint applicants
Link Financial had not aided him in clearing the outstanding debt
I issued a decision in August 2021 explaining that I thought we weren't able to consider all of 
the points that had been raised in the complaint. The decision laid out the following:
We cant consider
Link Financial acted unfairly in continuing to apply interest to the account until 2010
He had made an unsuccessful PPI claim under the original agreement and he didn't 
feel this was fair and so feels the PPI had been mis-sold to him
We shouldnt consider as its more suited to court
The debt should now be statute barred
We can consider partly 
The way Link Financial has pursued the debt over the last 15 years  but only what 
has happened since 23 March 2014 and nothing prior to this.
We can consider
The amount Link Financial is pursuing is incorrect
Link Financial had taken too long to provide him with a copy of the original credit 
agreement when he had requested it.
Link Financial would not tell him how much it had purchased the account for when he 
asked
Link Financial has changed its name more than once and contacted him under those 
different names
Mr J should not be liable for the full amount of the debt as both he and Ms J took the 
loan as joint applicants
Link Financial had not aided Mr J in clearing the outstanding debt
The investigator that originally handled the complaint previously explained that he didn't 
uphold Ms J and Mr J's complaint. In summary he said:
He'd seen the statements for the account and was unable to see any errors and so 
couldn't fairly say the amount that Link Financial is pursuing was incorrect.
He'd seen screenshots from the account history notes where Mr J had requested a 
copy of the credit agreement in November 2014. Link Financial requested a copy of 
this from the original lender and received it in December 2014, it forwarded this to Mr 
J in January 2015. So, he didn't think Link Financial had done anything wrong here.
Link Financial has no obligation to tell Ms J and Mr J how much it paid when 
purchasing the debt from the original lender as this information is legally and 
commercially sensitive.
It is a commercial decision for a business to change its name, and not for us to say if 
it should or shouldn't.
The original credit agreement that Ms J and Mr J took out made them liable both 
jointly and severally. This means that as well as being responsible together for the 
full amount each party is responsible for the full amount as if they were a sole 
customer. And so, Link Financial isn't acting unfairly in pursuing Mr J for the full 
amount.
Link Financial has accepted both reduced payments and token payments from Mr J, 
in the past, towards this account. And has asked Mr J to contact it to set up an affordable arrangement plan. So, he was satisfied Link Financial had tried to aid Mr J 
in clearing the outstanding debt.
Ms J and Mr J have already indicated that they didn't agree with the investigator's opinion. 
As a result, I'll now consider the issues we are able to look into and make a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. And I have 
to tell Ms J and Mr J that I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain.
The amount Link Financial is pursuing is incorrect
Having studied the statements of account I can see no obvious errors that would enable me 
to conclude that the balance is incorrect. The investigator, in his original opinion did say if Ms 
J and Mr J had any further evidence to support the balance being incorrect then he would 
consider this. As no evidence has been provided, it's reasonable to assume there is nothing 
further to support this. Therefore, I cannot see that Link Financial is pursuing an incorrect 
amount on this account.
Link Financial had taken too long to provide him with a copy of the original credit 
agreement when he had requested it.
I can see from Link Financials system records that it received a letter from Mr J on 24 
November 2014, where he requested a copy of the original credit agreement. It is noted that 
it sent a request to the original lender the same day to ask for a copy of this. The system 
notes show these were received on 12 December 2014. And a copy was posted to Mr J on 5 
January 2015. Mr J has said he never received this, but I can't hold Link Financial 
responsible for any failings with the postal service. It has shown evidence the letter was 
sent, and in a reasonable timeframe from when Mr J requested it. So, I can't fairly say Link 
Financial has acted unfairly here.
Link Financial would not tell him how much it had purchased the account for when he 
asked
I understand Ms J and Mr J's desire to know how much Link Financial has paid to purchase 
their account from the original lender. But it is not obliged to tell them, the information is 
commercially sensitive and is part of an agreement between Link Financial and the original 
lender and has no bearing on Link Financials entitlement to pursue the full amount of the 
debt. It follows I won't be asking Link Financial to disclose this.
Link Financial has changed its name more than once and contacted him under those 
different names
My role here is not to tell Link Financial how it should conduct its day-to-day running of the 
business, it is only for me to ensure that it follows its policies and procedures and treats its 
customers fairly. A change of name is part of the day-to-day running of the business and is 
purely a commercial decision and not for me to become involved with. Link Financial is entitled to change the name of its business, this doesn't change its ownership of the account 
and so I would expect it to let its customers know when it contacts them that it is now using a 
new name. And so, I can't say that Link Financial has done anything wrong when contacting 
Ms J and Mr J under its new names.
Mr J should not be liable for the full amount of the debt as both he and Ms J took the 
loan as joint applicants
I've looked at the original credit agreement states:
Where two or more persons are the Customers, references in this agreement to the 
Customer means each and every Customer. The liability of each Customer to FNB is 
joint and several, which means that, in addition to being responsible together each 
Customer is responsible in full for all obligations under this Agreement as if they were 
the sole Customer.
Because of this Link Financial is entitled to pursue both Ms J and Mr J for the entire debt 
both together and separately until the debt is satisfied. So, I don't uphold this point of Ms J 
and Mr J's complaint.
Link Financial had not aided Mr J in clearing the outstanding debt
I understand Mr J would like Link Financial to assist him in paying the outstanding debt by 
offering a reduced settlement. As I've said before, it's not for me to tell Link Financial how it 
should conduct the day-to-day running of its business. And as such I cannot ask it to do this 
as this would be its own commercial decision to make. 
But just because Link Financial has not chosen to offer a reduced settlement, I don't think 
that means it hasn't tried to assist Mr J to clear the debt. It has, over the years, taken both 
reduced payments and token payments to meet with Mr J's affordability at the time.
Link Financial has asked Mr J to contact it so that an affordable payment arrangement can 
be set up. I would strongly urge Mr J to take Link Financials offer up here.
The way Link Financial has pursued the debt since 23 March 2014
I've looked at the contact between Link Financial, Ms J and Mr J since 23 March 2014 to 
date. I can see Link Financial has sent contact and trace letters to both Ms J and Mr J during 
this time, there has been a total of four letters sent to Ms J and eight letters sent to Mr J. I 
don't think a total of twelve letters sent between both parties is an unreasonable amount.
I've also looked at calls between the parties during the same period. There has been a total 
of 39 outbound calls from Link Financial to two numbers, one landline and one mobile 
number, of these 23 were unanswered, 16 went to answer phone. Again, I don't consider 39 
calls over a six-year period to be excessive or unreasonable. It follows, I don't believe Link 
Financial has acted improperly in the way it's made contact with Ms J and Mr J in pursuit of 
the debt.
So overall, I can't fairly say Link Financial has treated Ms J and Mr J unfairly in its handling 
of their account. I know Ms J and Mr J will be disappointed with this outcome. But my 
decision ends what we  in trying to resolve their dispute with Link Financial  can do for 
them.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman