DRN-4161195
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance following a theft.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had home insurance with AXA. In December 2022 they had some items stolen 
from their car while shopping. They made a claim under the personal possessions cover in 
the policy.
AXA declined the claim, as it said for a successful claim items needed to be in the boot of 
the car or glove compartment. And Mrs S had said they were behind the drivers seat.  
Mr S made a complaint as he said Mrs S had meant the items were in the boot on the side of 
the drivers seat when she had described their location. So he said they met the terms of the 
policy and the claim should be accepted. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mrs S had said on the first call that the items were 
behind the drivers seat and may have been visible through the window and this was 
excluded from policy cover. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said two of the back seats of the car were folded down to 
accommodate a Christmas tree in the boot, but the items were in the boot on the side behind 
the drivers seat where the seats were up and the boot was secured. So the items were 
concealed and met the conditions of the policy. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he said Mrs S description 
didnt meet the policy requirements. Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S policy provides cover for personal possessions stolen from a vehicle. The 
policy states it covers: Loss or damage to personal effects, valuables and money
And under what is not covered by the policy it further states:
caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor vehicle unless the items are 
hidden from view in a boot or glove compartment, and all windows are closed and all doors, 
including the boot, are locked
So theft of items from a vehicle is only covered if the items are in a locked boot or glove 
compartment. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs S and AXA when she notified it of the loss and Ive 
considered the email sent shortly after with additional details. In the calls, Mrs S doesnt go 
into detail about the location of the bags, other than saying that she thinks she had left them 
outside of the vehicle. In the email description she sent AXA a few days after the event, she 
stated:
I had to move some bags to fit the tree into the boot. These bags I placed behind the 
driver's seat.
I have considered both of these descriptions of the locations of the bags, and based on this I 
think AXA made a fair and reasonable decision to decline the claim. The exclusion above 
applies where a vehicle is unattended and items arent in a boot or glove compartment. And 
in both descriptions, the items dont meet this requirement. 
Since the claim has been declined Mr S has said that Mrs S description of the items being 
behind the drivers seat referred to the relevant section of the boot. And hes provided 
photos to demonstrate where they were. 
Ive considered these but it doesnt change my position. Its reasonable for AXA to assess 
the claim based on the information provided when the claim is made. And I dont consider 
behind the drivers seat to be a usual description for items placed in the boot. 
And while Mr S photos are useful to understand his account, they dont provide any 
additional evidence of where the items were placed. So they dont persuade me that AXA 
has acted unfairly by basing its assessment on the information provided at the point of the 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman