DRN-2197885
The complaint
Mr D complains that he and his late wife Mrs D were mis-sold a decreasing term assurance 
(DTA) policy by Santander UK Plc, formerly as Abbey National Building Society, referred to 
as the business. 
Mr D says they were told life cover was a condition of their mortgage, but it was cover they 
didnt want or need. 
What happened
In 1983, Mr D and his wife, were advised to take out a DTA policy (with a third-party insurer) 
alongside their repayment mortgage, provided by the business. 
The policy cost £13.55 a month and provided a £25,000 sum assured, over a term of 20 
years. The policy was designed to go down in line with the repayment mortgage until it was 
paid off in 2003.
The business rejected the complaint. In short, it said:
It no longer had the point of sale documentation for this policy that was sold over 36 
years ago and 33 years since the mortgage ended.  
If life cover was a condition at the time  and its likely it was  it was within its rights 
to impose conditions of its lending.  
Even if Mr and Mrs D had employee benefits, this wasnt adequate replacement for 
life cover. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Businesses arent generally required to retain information for more than six years. 
Therefore, on the face of the available evidence shes unable to say (for sure) if the 
policy was a condition of the mortgage at the point of sale. 
If the policy was a condition of the mortgage at the time, as it was common amongst 
lenders at the time, the business was entitled  in the exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement  to set the conditions of its lending. 
But even if the policy wasnt a condition, the recommendation wasnt unsuitable. In 
the event of a valid claim within the term of the policy, it was designed to pay off the 
balance of the mortgage.  
Although Mr and Mrs D paid off the mortgage early, they continued with the policy, 
until the end of the term in 2003, even though they werent obliged to. 
They continued to have the benefit of cover, and there was nothing to say that in the 
event of a valid claim they couldnt use the money for something else.  
Even if Mr and Mrs D had sick pay or life cover as part of their employee benefits, 
this wasnt an adequate replacement for life cover in respect of a repayment 
mortgage. 
There was no guarantee that theyd continue to be employed by the same employer 
or that their benefits wouldnt change.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
made several points in relation to him and Mrs Ds background, purchasing their first 
property together, and the length of time theyve been loyal customers to the business. 
Mr D said they didnt think they could cancel the policy even after paying off the mortgage, 
so decided to continue with it until maturity. He hoped that a fresh look at the complaint 
might persuade the business to refund his premiums or provide some other compensation. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Because Mr and Mrs D took out the DTA policy before the Financial Services Act 1986 came 
into force in 1988, there were different requirements when giving advice. The common law 
duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation applied, rather 
than the suitability requirement which applied afterwards. 
In other words, any recommendation had to be appropriate for the consumers 
circumstances (ie a reasonable fit). Therefore, I must consider this complaint in relation to 
the rules and regulations as they were in 1983. 
At the time the business wasnt required to retain detailed paperwork about any 
conversations that took place. Therefore, its understandable that there may not be 
documentation to show what specific advice was given. So, its no surprise that given the 
passage of time only a very limited number of documents relating to these policies is 
available. This isnt something I can blame the business for.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, Im unable to safely 
say that the recommendation was inappropriate.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
Ds strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the loss of his wife. 
Mr D has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr D and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its likely that life cover was probably a 
condition of the mortgage in 1983. I know that it was a condition amongst a lot of lenders 
around that time, particularly in relation to personal loans and residential mortgages.
So, if this was the case, I dont think the business was wrong to have advised Mr and Mrs D 
to take out something that was a condition at the time, without which they wouldnt have 
been approved their mortgage. 
In the circumstances, the business  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement  was entitled to set conditions to its lending. 
But even if life cover wasnt a condition, Im unable to say that the recommendation was 
inappropriate. In other words, even if life cover wasnt a condition of the mortgage, it doesnt 
mean that the recommendation for a DTA policy in respect of a repayment mortgage was 
inappropriate. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs D drew the advisers attention to any existing 
life cover they had or wanted to use, instead of taking out the policy. Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest that they had suitable life cover in place at the time either. 
In my opinion the complaint doesnt just hinge on life cover being a condition of the mortgage 
but also whether or not the recommendation was appropriate and a reasonable fit.
So, if life cover wasnt a condition  which on balance I think it was  its possible that the 
adviser (strongly) recommended Mr and Mrs D take out life cover to protect their mortgage, 
but that doesnt mean the adviser was wrong to do so, or that pressure was applied. 
In the event of Mr D or Mrs D dying before the mortgage was repaid within the term of the 
policy, the policy was designed to fully repay the outstanding borrowing and was designed to 
go down in line with the outstanding loan amount, over the term of the mortgage. So, in the 
circumstances I cant say that there was no need for the policy. 
Given the length of time that the policy was maintained, even after the mortgage had been 
paid off early, I cant safely say that it wasnt something that Mr and Mrs D didnt want. Or 
that they didnt meet the affordability and eligibility requirements for. And if as Mr D says, he 
was advised that the policy was a condition of the mortgage, then he ought reasonably to 
have known that he didnt need to keep the policy going after the mortgage was paid off. 
   
Im mindful of the points made by Mr D about employee benefits. It is the case that those 
employee benefits would only have been available whilst he and Mrs D remained in that 
particular employment. And even if they did stay in that employment, there was no 
guarantee that the benefits wouldnt be withdrawn or changed in future by their respective 
employers. 
But the policy, in contrast, would continue to provide cover, as long as the premiums were 
paid. Despite what Mr D says, Im not persuaded that death in service benefit or sick pay 
was an adequate replacement for life cover in respect of a repayment mortgage, particularly 
if it was a condition.  
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear.But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr D 
what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and the 
estate of Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman