DRN-2582802
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed their bank account 
without notice. And theyd like compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M had a personal bank account with RBS. 
During November 2019 Mrs M was abroad and attempted to use her card but this was 
unfortunately rejected. Mrs M contacted the bank who initially werent able to explain why 
her card wasnt working, but after Mr M visited the branch on the 18 November 2019 he was 
advised that their account had been closed. 
Mrs M complained to RBS. Mrs M explained they hadnt been notified their account was 
going to be closed, she was embarrassed when attempting to carry out a transaction whilst 
abroad and was without funds for the rest of her trip.   
RBS looked into Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. The bank explained theyd 
sent a letter to Mrs M and Mr M on the 16 September 2019 giving them 2 months notice of 
the closure of their accounts. And therefore theyd acted fairly. 
Mrs M and Mr M werent happy with RBSs response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. They 
were satisfied that RBS gave Mrs M and Mr M 2 months notice of the account closure and in 
doing so followed the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mrs M and Mr M didnt accept our investigators outcome, and in response said they hadnt 
been notified by RBS about the account closure and the account was still active at the time. 
As Mrs M and Mr M didnt accept the outcome its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an
account with a bank. But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which
with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive seen evidence that RBS gave Mrs M and Mr M 2 months notice about the closure of 
their account by sending a letter on the 16 September 2019. The terms and conditions of 
Mrs M and Mr Ms account state that RBS can close the account for any reason by providing 
two months notice. Mrs M argues that the letter sent didnt specify which account it referred 
to. Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs M here  Im satisfied the letter makes it clear that all 
Mrs Ms accounts will be closed by saying All of your banking arrangements, including your 
accounts, will be cancelled and closed on 15 November 2019. Mrs M and Mr Ms account 
was in fact not closed until the 28 November 2019 however based on the contents of the 
letter Im satisfied RBS were entitled to block their access from the 15 November 2019 
onwards. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs M and Mr M and I appreciate the closure of their 
account caused them inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about 
who it offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But 
they can decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they 
have the commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied 
that in Mrs M and Mr Ms case RBS exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it 
decided to close their account. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking RBS to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman