DRN-1590895
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in March 2010 and at the same time took out an MPPI 
policy. The policy was cancelled in 2019. 
Mr and Mrs D believe Natwest mis-sold the policy. They say they were not aware they had 
the policy and that they thought the payments coming out of their account was for 
building insurance. They add if they had been given clearer information they wouldn't have 
agreed to it as they had savings to cover them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs D dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
I have looked through the sales documents provided and after reading the recollections of 
Mr and Mrs D, I think it is more likely than not MPPI was added in a meeting when they were 
arranging their mortgage.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs D have said they were not aware the MPPI policy was added and 
thought the monthly payment was for building insurance, but their recollections about 
the sale are not detailed. This is understandable due to the amount of time that has 
passed since the date of sale (around 10 years). So I have also needed to look at the 
sales documentation provided from that time to obtain an understanding as to what 
more likely happened.
 
I think, after considering the documentation provided and what I know of how 
Natwest sold policies at that time, it is more likely that Mr and Mrs D were given a 
choice to have the MPPI policy and they agreed to have it.
 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have suggests to 
me that the policy was presented as optional to them. I can see on the 'key facts about this mortgage' document that would have been given to Mr and Mrs D at the 
time of sale that there is a section for insurance.  It says at the top of this section 
'optional insurance that you don't have to take out'. There is then a heading for 
buildings insurance. It says next to this 'if you require a quote for buildings insurance 
why not call'.  And then separately underneath this it mentions mortgage repayment 
protection and gives the monthly price of the premium. When I see this i can see that 
it is clearly shown on this form that mortgage repayment protection is optional and 
that it is separate from buildings insurance. On balance, when considering the 
information in front of me, I am persuaded Mr and Mrs D were given a choice to have 
the MPPI policy (rather than it be added without their knowledge).
 
Moving on, I can't be sure if Natwest gave Mr and Mrs D a recommendation to have 
the policy, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for them anyway based on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr and Mrs D say they had 12 months 
savings. But I think the benefits provided by the policy would have been of use to 
them if they were sick or had an accident, or couldnt find work and it would have 
paid out in addition to them using their savings. So I think, on balance, Mr and Mrs D 
would have found the cover the policy provided useful. I can also see no other 
reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would make the policy unsuitable 
either.
 
I cannot be sure if Mr and Mrs D had received the costs of the policy clearly in the 
meeting but even if they had received all the information on this, I dont think it would 
have changed their mind to have the cover for the reasons that I have already given. 
The MPPI policy was reasonably priced compared to similar policies available at the 
time and to the monthly repayment. 
 
Its possible Natwest didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D wouldve been affected by any of these based on what I have 
already concluded.
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, but on balance, I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman