DRN-2511889
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about their Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage. Following 
Mr W becoming injured and being unable to work, the mortgage went into arrears, during 
which time Mr and Mrs W have said Barclays was understanding. 
However, they are unhappy about what Barclays has expected of them since Mr W has been 
able to work again and they are no longer in financial difficulties. This is because Barclays 
wanted most of their disposable income used to reduce the arrears on the mortgage, 
whereas Mr and Mrs W want to keep some of that money back in order to make changes to 
their home so that it is easier for Mr W to use due to his disability. Barclays has also refused 
to capitalise the arrears, which Mr and Mrs W say they have been told by a debt charity 
would be the best thing for them in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs W dont think Barclays 
has taken their personal circumstances and Mr Ws vulnerability into consideration when 
making decisions. 
What happened
I have summarised events and submissions below in somewhat less detail than they have 
been presented and I have rounded some of the figures involved. No discourtesy is 
intended, but rather its a reflection of the informal service we provide. If I have not 
mentioned something it is not because I have ignored it, but because I dont think it is 
material to the outcome of the complaint and I can assure Mr and Mrs W that their entire 
submission has been considered.
In 2011 Mr and Mrs W took out a new mortgage with Barclays. Alongside the mortgage was 
a mortgage current account (MCA) with a lending facility available on it. 
In 2014 Mr W was injured at work and they entered a period of financial difficulties. Mr W 
was subsequently medically retired in mid-2016 and the mortgage arrears were cleared. 
In mid-2017 a new interest rate product was added to the mortgage. It was a fixed interest 
rate of 1.74% until 31 October 2019. In the autumn of 2017 Mr and Mrs W started to miss 
mortgage payments again.
In the middle of 2018 Mr and Mrs W asked Barclays for a certificate of ownership. This was 
to support their application for a grant to install a wet-room to aid Mr Ws use of their home.
By 2019 arrears had built up on the account again. However, in early 2019 Mr and Mrs W 
informed Barclays that Mr W had a new job and Mrs W had a redundancy payment due. An 
income and expenditure (I&E) exercise was to be completed so that an arrangement could 
be made to repay the arrears.  At this time the arrears on the mortgage amounted to over 
£5,000. 
In April 2019 an income and expenditure exercise was completed and Barclays asked 
Mr and Mrs W to use all but £100 of their disposable income to reduce their arrears. They 
agreed to do so, and it was agreed a total payment (including the contractual mortgage 
payment (CMP)) of £1,276.29 from May 2019. This would clear the arrears in nine months.
The payment Mr and Mrs W had agreed wasnt made and they were sent a broken plan 
letter at the beginning of June 2019. This detailed there was over £5,000 of arrears and the 
overdraft on the MCA was more than £9,000. Mr W called Barclays and its notes indicate 
that it made an error and it had added the payment that was meant to go to the MCA, to the 
amount to be collected for the mortgage. The plan needed to be reset. 
It was at this point Mr W asked that the arrears be capitalised because they needed to do 
some house repairs and to enable them to take holidays and pay other creditors. Barclays 
didnt agree to capitalise the arrears and said that Mr and Mrs W needed to treat their 
mortgage as a priority and suggested external financial advice. 
Barclays sent another letter a week later as a payment hadnt been made. Mr W spoke to 
Barclays several times over the following weeks explaining why the payment Barclays had 
asked them to pay wasnt possible. This was due to various things he and Mrs W needed to 
spend money on, including home improvements, vehicle repairs and legal costs. 
Barclays was asked to capitalise the arrears into the mortgage debt. Barclays repeated that 
this was not an option and explained that it would only do so where the arrears amounted to 
less than six months of CMP and the CMP had to have been paid in full for four consecutive 
months. 
Different income and expenditure assessments were made and the disposable income 
changed over time. On one occasion when the Barclays member of staff factored in all the 
expenses Mr W told him about, it was established that even the CMP was not affordable. 
Mr W objected to Barclays wanting them to pay all but £100 of their disposable income 
toward the arrears as he didnt think it was realistic and it wouldnt allow him to adapt his 
home.
At the beginning of July 2019 Mr and Mrs W cancelled the direct debit mandate that paid 
their mortgage. 
In the middle of July 2019 Mr W explained to Barclays that some of the home repairs that 
had previously been mentioned were adjustments he needed to change the house to cater 
for his disability. He said he was having to sleep on the sofa and needed money for a stair 
lift. Mr W considered a higher CMP would be affordable if the arrears were capitalised. 
Barclays confirmed that the affordability assessments had been changed several times to 
factor in Mr Ws additional needs. 
Barclays confirmed that Mr and Mrs W didnt fit its criteria to allow capitalisation of the 
arrears. It was also of the view that the amount it was asking them to pay towards the 
arrears was affordable. However, it said that if Mr W wanted to send in medical evidence to 
support his case that the payment requested for the arrears was not affordable, it would 
consider it. Mr and Mrs W said that they wanted to make payments of £200 per month - 
£100 to the mortgage arrears and the MCA debt  and they started making additional 
payments at the end of July 2019. 
At the start of August 2019 Mr W sent a letter to Barclays explaining the situation 
surrounding his disability and use of the family home. He confirmed a downstairs room had 
been built to be used as a downstairs bedroom. However, it needed to be altered and 
couldnt be used until it was. He also explained that he needed a bath to aid his medical 
situation, but at present he only had a wet-room. The cost for these alterations was put 
forward as £2,500. Mr W went on to list other expenses they needed to pay out  roof 
repairs of £3,000, kitchen works of £2,000 and £400 of repairs on their car. Mr W reiterated 
his request for the arrears to be capitalised. Following Barclays issuing pre-litigation notifications to Mr and Mrs W in the middle of 
August 2019, further discussions took place with Mr W. Mr W explained that one of his 
disabilities means that once he gets an idea, he finds it difficult to change his position. 
Barclays confirmed that it was willing to look into incorporating his needs into the financial 
arrangements. Mr W said he would send in medical evidence and court documentation. He 
said that once the legal proceedings he was involved in were resolved he might be able to 
increase the extra payments he was making towards the arrears and MCA overdraft. 
Barclays said that Mr and Mrs W would have to have made 12 months of payments in full 
and on time before it would consider changing its position on capitalisation; it warned him 
that capitalisation would make the mortgage more expensive in the long run.
Whilst Mr W provided some information about his physical disability, it didnt include anything 
that detailed alterations that needed to be made to Mr and Mrs Ws home to facilitate Mr W 
living in it. Although Barclays considered the evidence, it didnt go back to Mr and Mrs W to 
tell them that it hadnt changed its position. 
Mr and Mrs W were given referral rights to this service on 10 August 2019. They did contact 
us shortly thereafter. 
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs Ws interest rate product ended. They asked for a replacement 
product, but Barclays said they werent eligible as they were in arrears. It explained that it 
didnt allow rate changes where a consumer was in more than two months of arrears. A new 
income and expenditure was completed and this again showed that Mr and Mrs W had over 
£600 of disposable income. The monthly CMP increased as the mortgage went onto 
standard variable rate. Whilst Mr and Mrs W maintained the £100 payment to the MCA 
overdraft after this, they didnt always pay an additional amount to the mortgage arrears and 
the amount varied when a payment was made. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with Barclays position on giving them a new interest rate 
product and they complained. That complaint was dealt with separately and has been dealt 
with separately by this service too. 
At the end of November 2019, a further income and expenditure assessment was done. This 
included £300 a month savings allowance for Mr and Mrs W to put toward the works theyd 
said needed to be done on their home. This showed that they had a disposable income of a 
little over £200. Mr W continued to ask for the arrears to be capitalised. 
Barclays discussed some options for Mr and Mrs W in a telephone call with Mr W on 
7 December 2019. It proposed three possible options to remedy the situation:
Option 1 authorisation would be sought to agree a payment plan of £201.35 above the 
CMP for 27 months, which would clear the arrears. Mr and Mrs W would then 
be eligible for a new interest rate product.
Option 2 a forbearance fixed interest rate (2.19%) would be attached to the mortgage 
for 12 months. This would reduce the CMP by £75.09. That sum plus the 
extra  totalling £277.12  would be paid to the arrears. This would allow 
Mr and Mrs W to reduce the arrears by £3,325.44 over the 12-month period.
Option 3 Extend the mortgage term by 5 years and 7 months. This would reduce the 
CMP by £145 per month. If Mr and Mrs W made a total payment of £347.26 
the arrears would be cleared in 16 months, at which time they could apply for 
a new interest rate product.However, when it wrote to Mr and Mrs W a few days later, only the second and third options 
were documented. Mr and Mrs W didnt respond to the letter and have told us that they didnt 
receive it.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, but didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. He said that it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to decline to capitalise 
the arrears on the account as its commercial decision was to only do so where the arrears 
amounted to less than six months worth of mortgage payments. It is a matter of a lenders 
commercial judgement and it was not unreasonable for a lender to expect a consumer to 
prioritise the payment of their mortgage. Whilst a debt charity may have told Mr and Mrs W 
to ask for it to be done, Barclays doesnt have to do so. Although Mr and Mrs W didnt think 
Barclays were treating them fairly, it had provided options to help. Our investigator 
considered Barclays had treated them fairly.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept our investigators conclusions. Mr W said a Barclays member of 
staff had got in touch with him and told him that he had a strong case for capitalisation due 
to health grounds as it must take a vulnerable adults circumstances into account. One of his 
disabilities makes logic a natural way of thinking. He said that basically its not reasonable 
for Barclays to only give them a £100 contingency fund as unexpected bills can be more 
than that. Things like a MOT should be built into the I&E and money put aside. 
Mr and Mrs W alleged Barclays had made up things in the I&E at one point as it put a figure 
down for building work monthly. It would take him years to save up for work to be done at 
that rate. 
Our investigator highlighted to Mr and Mrs W the offers Barclays had made. They were 
encouraged to speak to it about the options available. Mr W responded by saying that 
neither of the options addressed the situation and his vulnerable position. He remained of 
the view that Barclays should have capitalised the arrears and if this service didnt make it 
do so, we were at fault too. He said they would not accept anything other than capitalisation 
of the arrears.
Mr and Mrs W made further comment about Barclays handling of their mortgage. They 
highlighted that none of the correspondence mentioned Mr Ws health, his vulnerability or 
chronic pain. They said Barclays has a special team that takes personal circumstances into 
account, but they have heard nothing from that team to tell them how Barclays can assist 
them going forward. Mr and Mrs W consider that Barclays must do so as it has a duty of 
care. Mr and Mrs W said that Mr W had clinical needs, and these should be assessed by 
both this service and Barclays; if we and Barclays dont have the expertise to do so, 
occupational therapy advice should be obtained.
Our investigator responded further and reiterated that as capitalisation costs more in the 
long-run, it is not always the most suitable option. He explained that just because a 
consumer wanted a particular outcome, it doesnt mean that it is the best thing for them or 
that they can have it. Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. 
They reiterated their comments about the duty of care Barclays and we owed them. They 
questioned exactly what consideration of Mr Ws disability and vulnerability had been given 
by the investigator. Mr W said that his physical condition was deteriorating because of 
Barclays and this could be evidenced by MRI scans. Nor did Mr and Mrs W think the 
evidence that they would be better off if the arrears were capitalised should be ignored. 
Mr and Mrs W also commented that they had run up the MCA overdraft by having building 
works done to their home.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint, along with Mr and Mrs Ws other 
complaint were passed to me to consider. I considered their comments about Mr Ws disability and their feeling that the impact of this on their situation hadnt been considered by 
either us or Barclays. Given Mr Ws comments about having to sleep on the sofa until the 
works to their home were completed, I asked for more information. We explained that it 
wouldnt be appropriate for us to come to our own conclusions about Mr Ws situation; rather 
any assessment we made should be based on his own medical teams opinions. I asked that 
we be provided with reports or other documentation from Mr Ws medical team that detailed 
the alterations needed to Mr and Mrs Ws home to cater for Mr Ws needs. In addition, as 
Mr and Mrs W were concerned the advice of the debt charity, they had sought help from was 
being ignored, I asked for a copy of that advice. 
Mr and Mrs W confirmed the advice they received about their mortgage from the debt charity 
was given over the phone and they have no documentation regarding it. 
They also confirmed the grant they received from their local council only covered the cost of 
installing the wet room. This is for use when Mr W is unable to use the stairs and the 
upstairs bedroom. The bedroom downstairs is being used as a store room (for items such as 
a bathroom suite, flooring and wardrobes), as they cant afford storage units whilst the 
building works are going on. If it werent being used for storage, the room would be used 
only when Mr W cant use the stairs, as Mr W doesnt think it is suitable for use as a 
permanent bedroom due to its size and the space he needs around the bed when using 
crutches. The building work theyve had done so far was to make life more comfortable for 
Mr W and more manageable for Mrs W. The upstairs bedroom was designed by an architect 
specifically to take account of his physical needs. Unfortunately, the builder didnt complete 
the work and they cant afford to pursue a legal remedy to get compensation. 
Mr and Mrs W confirmed they didnt have any evidence from Mr Ws medical team that 
alterations needed to be made to their home. However, they did provide some letters from 
Mr Ws consultant  one from 2016 confirming that his levels of functionality were unlikely to 
improve significantly. The second was from this year and confirmed that he needed further 
advice and treatment because Mr Ws new job is sedentary and not good for his physical 
disability.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I will first address the matter of Mr and Mrs Ws concern that Barclays isnt following the 
advice of the debt charity it recommended they speak to. Firstly, Barclays is not bound to 
follow recommendations of a third party in such circumstances. It is required to assess its 
customers circumstances itself and take appropriate action. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs W have said the charity didnt document its advice relating to the 
mortgage. My experience of organisations such as the charity Mr and Mrs W asked for help, 
is that they dont make recommendations about secured loans and mortgages. Whilst they 
may explain some of the options that might be available, they are aware that lenders are 
required to make its own assessment and will not follow recommendations from third parties. 
Given that the charitys recommendations about unsecured debts are documented for their 
clients, the lack of documentation about the mortgage, would indicate that it didnt give 
advice about what should happen, but more likely explained possibilities that could be 
discussed. 
I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in not following what Mr and Mrs W 
remembered as being the debt charitys advice about the mortgage.
I will now consider the core of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  how Barclays should have 
handled their mortgage account after they ceased to be in financial difficulties. There are obligations Barclays must fulfil when dealing with customers who have mortgage arrears. 
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers fairly, especially those in 
financial difficulties or who are vulnerable. Balanced against that, is the fundamental 
principle underpinning a mortgage contract, which is that a lender has the right to receive 
payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. What this means is 
that Barclays is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the 
problem that created the arrears to begin with has been resolved. 
In this decision I will not specifically consider the matter of Mr and Mrs W having been told 
they couldnt have a new interest rate product in October 2019. However, there is a 
significant overlap between the two cases, and so there will be repetition in the two 
provisional decisions. 
Mr and Mrs W want the arrears on the account to be capitalised onto the mortgage balance. 
They believe this would only increase their monthly payment by a small amount, which 
would be affordable, and would mean they didnt have to pay a significant amount of their 
disposable income toward repaying the arrears on the account. If there were no arrears, they 
also believe they would be able to access a new interest rate product, which would then 
increase their disposable income. They have commented that the principles outlined in the 
Norgan court case should be applied to their mortgage.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W wanted this option to be offered to them. It would have 
made their immediate situation after Mr W returned to work much simpler. However, I would 
only expect a lender to offer this option if it would be an affordable and sustainable 
arrangement and beneficial in both the short and long term. 
Spreading an arrears debt repayment over the remaining term of a mortgage will usually 
result in overall higher costs. In this case, spreading the debt repayment over the remaining 
term of the mortgage would result in Mr and Mrs W paying less than £40 of the arrears each 
month. The remainder of the arrears balance would then attract interest. Where repayment 
of the arrears is possible over a shorter period, it is usually considered to be a better option 
as the overall cost of the arrears is reduced because less interest is charged.
This is where the question about what Mr and Mrs W could afford, and should have been 
asked to pay, comes into the equation. They have put forward that they need all their 
disposable income to have alterations done to their home to enable Mr W to be able to use 
it. If that were the case, Barclays should have taken that into account and that would affect 
what I think its decision regarding the repayment of Mr and Mrs Ws arrears. However, 
Mr and Mrs W have been asked for evidence that Mr Ws medical situation required the 
works they have started and want to retain money to finish. However, we havent been 
provided with this evidence. What evidence we have, mainly provided by Mr and Mrs W, 
indicate that Mr Ws home has already been adapted and can be used by him, but that Mr W 
would prefer alternative adaptations and arrangements. Effectively, the works they have 
started and wish to continue are nice to have, rather than having been deemed necessary 
by Mr Ws medical team. 
I think Barclays was remiss in not responding to Mr W and explaining that the evidence 
provided wasnt sufficient for it to change its position about the arrears repayment. However, 
based on the evidence we have, I dont think Barclays maintaining that it wanted 
Mr and Mrs W to make payments toward the arrears was unreasonable.That said, I dont think the amount Barclays asked for was reasonable or fair. Barclays asked 
that Mr and Mrs W pay it all but £100 of their income, after their basic outgoings were paid, 
toward the arrears. This effectively placed Mr and Mrs W in a position where Barclays was 
asking them to put their lives on hold in order to pay the arrears off. While I agree that 
maintaining a secured debt should be a priority, I dont think asking a consumer to do what 
Barclays did was reasonable. Mr and Mrs W effectively made this point quite early on, but 
Barclays doesnt appear to have considered it. It would also have prevented them from 
making any payment toward the MCA overdraft, which was over its limit initially.
Despite Mr and Mrs W and Barclays not agreeing on an arrangement, Mr and Mrs W made 
additional payments to their debts. They started making payments totalling £200 a month to 
the MCA and mortgage shortly after Mr W returned to work. This represented almost a third 
of their disposable income and I dont think that was an unreasonable amount for them to 
settle on. Whilst that changed when their disposable income dropped because of the higher 
CMP, they still made some payments toward the arrears and maintained the payment to the 
MCA, which shows continued willing to address the situation on Mr and Mrs Ws part.
Barclays made Mr and Mrs W an offer to either give them a 12-month fixed rate to ease their 
financial situation or extend the term of their mortgage to do the same thing. Both options 
would free up funds to help Mr and Mrs W with the arrears, although the term extension 
would again increase the overall cost of the mortgage. However, in addition to asking that 
the funds being freed up by whichever change was selected, it also asked that 
Mr and Mrs W paid over £200 in addition. Based on the income and expenditure Barclays 
did at that time, making allowances for Mr and Mrs W saving toward having the building 
works finished, that was their entire disposable income, with no contingency allowed. Again, 
that was just the payment required for the mortgage arrears. It didnt include allowing 
Mr and Mrs W the opportunity to reduce the overdraft that was also secured on the property 
and was for some time over its limit. 
Overall, I am not persuaded Barclays have treated Mr and Mrs W fairly, although I dont think 
it was wrong to decline their request to capitalise their arrears. 
As I have said above, I think the options of increasing the term of the mortgage or offering a 
forbearance 12-month fixed rate in December 2019 were reasonable options to enable funds 
to be freed-up to help repay the arrears. It is the additional conditions placed on these offers 
that were not and I think Barclays should also have provided information about the additional 
cost the term extension would cause. By placing conditions on the options, I consider 
Barclays effectively prevented Mr and Mrs W from accepting either option. As such, if 
Mr and Mrs W confirm they would have accepted either of the options had the additional 
conditions not been attached, Barclays should apply the change to the mortgage. Given 
when the offer was made, I consider any change should be applied as of the first working 
day of January 2020. 
Lenders tend not to grant a new interest rate product that involve an early repayment charge 
(ERC) to consumers who have been in financial difficulties because, should those difficulties 
return, the ERC can make the situation worse. This may not be an entirely unreasonable 
position to take in some cases. However, where a consumers financial situation has 
stabilised, it would not be appropriate for that consumer to be penalised in the long-term 
because of events in the past that have been resolved. 
If Mr and Mrs W accept the option of the fixed rate, that rate will expire shortly. It has been 
some time since Barclays last assessed their circumstances. I am aware that they recently 
asked for a payment holiday, so it seems possible their situation may have changed 
markedly. As such, Barclays should complete such an assessment immediately following my 
final decision. Mr and Mrs W will still be in arrears and are unlikely to fit into Barclays policy for access to a new interest rate product. However, Barclays should review Mr and Mrs Ws 
individual circumstances when deciding whether they can have a new interest rate product 
or if it would be appropriate to offer a further forbearance rate. This should include 
consideration of how the mortgage account has been conducted since Mr W started work 
again and how stable their situation appears to be going forward. 
Dealing with this matter has clearly caused Mr and Mrs W some distress and inconvenience. 
They were at times, despite making additional payments to both the MCA and the arrears, 
and told that legal action to repossess their home was being considered. Given I dont think 
Barclays treated Mr and Mrs W fairly, I am minded to require it to pay Mr and Mrs W £250. 
This is over and above the sum it offered in relation to matters considered under the other 
complaint. 
Barclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and that it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept my provisional decision, the key points of which I have 
summarised below.
They asked how I had come to the conclusion that the house modifications were a nicety 
rather than essential. They said the downstairs bedroom would only be used if Mr W was 
unable to get upstairs. They also said the downstairs bedroom will not be suitable for 
someone walking with crutches or in a wheelchair. It is only because of a cowboy builder 
that Mr W is unable to use the upstairs bedroom as it is so claustrophobic. The wet room 
is beneficial but as previously stated, the Occupational Therapist who assessed the 
situation was aware the downstairs bedroom would only be used for when Mr W would 
not be able to get upstairs. As such, they need funds to finish the modifications upstairs 
to allow Mr W to use it fully.
Barclays told Mr W in 2019, when he informed it hed got a job, they could capitalise the 
arrears. They would be able to do so after Mr W had been in employment and made six 
consecutive payments. Mr and Mrs W said when they asked for capitalisation at the end 
of the six months, Barclays refused with no apparent reason other than made-up 
excuses. 
There was no evidence that Barclays took his disability and vulnerability into account. 
They believe the situation should have been considered by a specialist team within 
Barclays, but it was not considered at all. Mr and Mrs W believe this in breach of the 
Equalities Act and FCA regulations. As such, they dont think Barclays was in a position 
to decide what was best for them in relation to their finances and say its decisions have 
caused them significant disadvantage. They feel Barclays have ignored everything that 
has been said and put to it relating to Mr Ws disability.
They believe that if the arrears and MCA overdraft balance had been capitalised, they 
would have been £200 better off each month since the middle of 2019. That money 
would have been sufficient to pay for the adaptations to the house they want done. The 
money could then have been used to help clear their unsecured debts and significantly 
improve their financial position before Mr Ws retirement. 
They also consider that Barclays decision not to capitalise the arrears and MCA 
overdraft will potentially cause them problems if they need to move as Barclays wont 
provide them with support in the way they want it. This means they are unable to distance themselves from the financial mess Mr Ws period of unemployment has put 
them in. 
They pointed out that being disabled means the cost for activities and holidays is greater 
than it otherwise would be because the providers charge more for facilitating Mr Ws 
disability. Mr W is unable to do the works needed to the home himself because of his 
disability. As such, they have to hire professionals to do the work and those 
professionals are paid more than Mr W is. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made comment about the decision by Barclays not to agree to their 
request for a payment holiday. As this request was made recently and is not the subject of 
this complaint, I dont intend to make any comment about Barclays decision.
Mr and Mrs W have questioned how I had come to the conclusion that the house 
modifications they have said need to be done were a nicety rather than essential. The 
explanations given by Mr and Mrs W during our investigation indicated adaptations had 
previously been made to their home to cater for Mr Ws needs, but that Mr W, 
understandably, preferred to use the master bedroom as he had before his injury. 
In light of this, Mr W was asked to provide evidence from his medical team that confirmed 
the further were necessary because of Mr Ws disability. No evidence from Mr Ws medical 
team was provided. In the absence of any such evidence, along with Mr and Mrs Ws 
submissions, it was clear the further alterations were being done to facilitate Mr Ws 
preferences rather than because of a medical need  or as Mr and Mrs W have put it, were a 
nicety. 
Mr and Mrs W have said that when Mr W informed Barclays he had a job, it told him they 
could capitalise the arrears and MCA overdraft balance at the end of six months. I have read 
all of the evidence available from that time and I can find no mention of this discussion. 
Indeed, the first time Mr W raised the possibility of capitalisation, less than six months after 
he returned to work, Barclays was very clear that it would not do so.
 
Mr and Mrs W have said there is no evidence that Barclays took his disability and 
vulnerability into account. I dont agree. On several occasions Mr W mentioned needing to 
make alterations for his disability, and Barclays took the costs he mentioned into account 
when it was assessing Mr and Mrs Ws financial situation. Indeed, on one occasion, which 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy about, taking account of the costs associated with Mr Ws 
disability meant Barclays concluded he couldnt afford to pay any extra to the arrears. 
In addition, Barclays asked Mr W to provide information to allow it to consider further what 
he had been telling it  to make reasonable adjustments to take account in its processes of 
his needs due to disability as required under legislation  but he didnt provide the 
information it needed. He simply provided evidence that he had a disability, but nothing to 
allow Barclays to understand what that meant in relation to his life, finances and what it 
should reasonably do to assist him. Unfortunately, it did at that point fail Mr and Mrs W in 
that it didnt tell them what had been provided wouldnt allow it to assess the situation. To be 
clear, making reasonable adjustments doesnt mean simply saying yes to a consumers 
requests. It is clear that Mr and Mrs W remain of the opinion that Barclays should have agreed to 
capitalise their arrears. They have explained how they think it would benefit them and would 
have already benefitted them. However, nothing they have said has changed my 
conclusions in this regard. I dont consider Barclays acted inappropriately when it asked 
Mr and Mrs W to make payments to clear their arrears, rather than capitalising them.
Whilst I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, my conclusions about 
their complaint remain the same. I consider Barclays was unfair in asking them to pay such a 
high proportion of their disposable income toward the arrears, and that requirement stopped 
Mr and Mrs W from being able to accept the forbearance fixed interest rate when it was 
offered. 
Putting things right
If Mr and Mrs W confirm they would have accepted either of the options Barclays presented 
them with in December 2019 had the additional conditions not been attached, Barclays 
should apply the change to the mortgage. Given when the offer was made, the change 
should be applied as of the first working day of January 2020. 
If Mr and Mrs W accept the option of the fixed rate, that rate will expire shortly. It has been 
some time since Barclays last assessed their circumstances. I am aware Mr and Mrs W 
recently asked for a payment holiday, although they have now indicated this was not 
because their financial situation has deteriorated, I still believe it would be appropriate for 
Barclays to complete an assessment of Mr and Mrs W circumstances. 
Although they will still be in arrears Barclays should review their individual circumstances 
when deciding whether they can have a new interest rate product or if it would be 
appropriate to offer a further forbearance rate, rather than simply saying they dont fit within 
the policy for access to a new interest rate product. This should include consideration of how 
the mortgage account has been conducted since Mr W started work again and how stable 
their situation appears to be going forward. 
For the reasons detailed in my provisional decision, and documented above, I remain 
satisfied Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs W £250. This is over and above the sum it offered 
in relation to matters considered under the other complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and award the above redress. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman