DRN-3677493
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr S holds with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM). Hes unhappy that BM has reported missed 
payments on his credit file after a change of direct debit mandate wasnt processed correctly. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr S and BM. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr S being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
This is a BTL mortgage, not a residential one. It isnt subject to regulation by the FCA; BTL 
mortgages are viewed as business contracts where both parties are engaged in commercial 
activity. Mr S has always maintained that none of what happened was his fault. Ill get to that 
shortly, but my starting point here is that the responsibility for making sure payments to a 
debt are made in full and on time always lies solely with the borrower. A direct debit mandate 
is a mechanism that allows the lender to collect the payment easily, but it doesnt transfer 
responsibility for making the payment from the borrower to the lender.
The first missed payment was in August 2021, and had nothing to do with a change of direct 
debit. Very simply, Mr S didnt make his payment that month. It may have been the result of 
a mistake or omission by his previous bank, but it was still his responsibility. The next 
missed payments were in November and December 2021 and January 2022, after Mr S 
emailed BM with details of a new current account, asking that it set up a new direct debit. 
BM subsequently accepted the email wasnt actioned, and sent Mr S a cheque for £50 by 
way of an apology and compensation.
BM attempted to set up the direct debit with the details Mr S had given them after he 
complained in February 2022. Unfortunately, the details Mr S were wrong by one digit. At 
that point, BM did what Id expect it to, and wrote to tell him the direct debit had been 
rejected by his bank. The payments for February and March 2022 were missed.
Putting all of the above together, BM is only partly responsible for the new direct debit not 
being set up, due to not following up the original email request. Mr S must also accept blame 
for giving BM the wrong information, which delayed things further. In summary, BM can 
reasonably be deemed to have contributed to three of the missed payments, but the others  
those for August 2021 and February and March 2022  are down to Mr S.
But theres more to a fair resolution that simply apportioning blame for how the problem 
came about. I also have to consider what the parties then did to try and put things right. I say 
parties deliberately, for two reasons. Firstly, as Ive said, both BM and Mr S were at fault; 
secondly, Mr S had a duty to take reasonable steps to mitigate the adverse effects of BMs 
shortcomings.
BM was prepared to remove the adverse entries from Mr S credit file, on two conditions; 
firstly, that he make the missing payments up in full, and secondly, that Mr S provide bank 
statements to show that in each month, he could have paid in full and on time. In my view, 
that was an entirely fair and reasonable response.
Although he did provide the statements, Mr S wasnt happy with what he regarded as 
blackmail on BMs part. Despite an attempt by our investigator to broker an informal 
settlement  albeit one that excluded the August 2021 payment  Mr S wanted an 
undertaking, a guarantee in effect, that his credit file would be cleared before hed make up 
the missed payments. In my view, that was not a fair and reasonable response. It overlooked 
the fact that, as I said earlier, responsibility for making payments in full and on time lies 
solely with Mr S. It also falls somewhat short of mitigating the adverse effects of BMs 
actions.
The point is now moot because, in the months weve been looking at his complaint, Mr S has 
told us he used the money he owes BM (or some of it at least) to pay other creditors and no 
longer has all of it available to pay to BM. BM has refused his request for more time to 
accumulate enough money to clear the arrears and still have the history of missed payments 
removed from his credit file. 
In all the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that was unfair of BM. Mr S asks about the 
possibility of a payment plan, and it may be that something of that nature will need to be 
negotiated for the arrears to be cleared. But as far as removing the history of the missed 
payments from Mr S credit file in concerned, that moment has now passed.
In summary, both parties contributed to this situation, but the response from BM was a fair 
and reasonable reflection of its contribution. Mr S has never been in a position where he 
could place pre-conditions on BM for bringing his account up to date; he owes it the money, 
simple as that. In contrast, BM could place conditions on Mr S for removing the missed 
payment entries from credit file. 
Mr S didnt make the payments up during the period he could meet BMs conditions for 
clearing his credit file, and that was his choice. Hes asked what more he could have done, 
but the reality is that BM didnt place any obstacles in his way. The letters it sent him told him 
how he could pay. Meanwhile, Ive listened to the phone calls between him and BM; no one 
told him he couldnt or shouldnt pay. Any prevarication or uncertainty on the part of collections staff was solely about the complaint resolution because the complaint-handler 
wasnt available to speak to. 
Also, Mr S said himself in one of the calls that he recognised the priority was to pay the 
arrears, and whilst it was a pain, it was affordable. But the reality is that he didnt clear the 
arrears when he could. Insofar as he now cant meet BMs conditions, Mr S cant reasonably 
expect it still to clear his credit file, but he does still owe BM the money.
Mr S has told us that the missed payment entries on his credit file have caused him 
problems with other financing arrangements. That may be so, but without seeing a full copy 
of his credit file, I cant exclude the possibility that other creditors might have posted adverse 
information that is also impacting on him. Meanwhile, for all the reasons Ive set out, Mr S 
cant now expect BM to clear the missed payment entries. This throws into sharp focus why 
Mr S needed to have protected his own position, by clearing the arrears when he could, and 
arguing the merits of the complaint later. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman