DRN-3463589
The complaint
Mr H complains about 1825 Financial Planning And Advice Limited trading as 1825.
Mr H says that he is unhappy with changes made to his pension investment portfolio by 
1825, and believes these changes exposed him to a higher level of risk and volatility than he 
was willing to accept, together with the overall performance of the investment portfolio which 
fell below his expectations. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr H transferred his defined benefit pension scheme to 1825, choosing to invest in 
its Portfolio 2 which was the second lowest risk portfolio available.
In October 2020, Mr H met with 1825 for a review and made some changes to his portfolio  
then, in January 2021, Mr H told 1825 that he wanted to move his pension portfolio to a 
different provider and make a complaint.
1825 rejected Mr Hs complaint, so he brought it to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, as explained by our investigator, Im not able to consider the performance of Mr Hs 
pension investment portfolio  which is managed by another business (S)  only if the 
investment portfolio recommended by 1825 was suitable for Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives at the time.
1825 has provided the risk tolerance assessment, financial planning questionnaire it 
completed with Mr H, along with the portfolio client guide showing the portfolios it provided at 
the time. I can see from this that Mr H confirmed that he had a low-moderate attitude to risk 
 and that Portfolio 2 was recommended to him because of this. Based on the asset 
classes and their distribution within the portfolio, I dont think this portfolio was unsuitable for 
him.
1825 also sent Mr H a client recommendation letter explaining why the chosen portfolio met 
Mr Hs requirements. I can also see that Mr H then signed a declaration confirming he 
agreed to the terms as set out, and that he was happy for 1825 to arrange the investment. 
The letter states the following:
Each managed portfolio will be managed by [S] in line with its investment strategy as 
detailed in the relevant investment strategy factsheet. The most up to date factsheet will 
made available by the Platform Provider. [S] will review the managed portfolios periodically 
as they consider appropriate and in accordance with their obligations under the rules of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. As a result of these reviews, [S] may instruct changes to the 
asset allocation and/or investments selected. [S] will also monitor and adjust the assets in 
the managed portfolio to realign them with the specified investment strategy (this is called 
rebalancing"). We cannot change the managed portfolio investment strategy or the way in 
which it is implemented, but we can, if you instruct us to do so, add or withdraw monies from 
the managed portfolio. This may be delayed if the managed portfolio is being rebalanced 
when you wish to do this.
Mr H also signed a further engagement letter for 1825 on 6 September 2017, detailing its 
terms of business and how it would work with him. 
So, with this in mind, I think that 1825 made it clear how the portfolio would operate, and that 
Mr H understood the agreement he had entered into  and what decisions would be made 
by the portfolio manager.
I understand that Mr H has concerns that changes were made to the portfolio without his 
consent and were inappropriate  and that he was exposed to a 25% cash position for two 
days on three separate occasions. But I dont consider this to be outside of the remit of the 
portfolio manager given that a maximum of 25% of the portfolio was taken out of the market 
for a short period at any one time, rather than a higher exposure. I also consider that the 
portfolio manager would need to take a short period of time to review the current position 
before reinvesting the funds. I also disagree that having higher holdings in cash for a short 
period of time increased the risk of the portfolio.
The portfolio client guide also explained that the portfolio manager used uses both strategic 
and tactical asset allocation  enabling them to take shorter term positions relative to the 
strategic asset allocation. It goes on to explain that while the long-term volatility bands were 
set at a target between 5.5% to 8.5%, there may be short term volatility that falls outside of 
this target.  
Overall, I dont agree that Mr H was exposed to a higher level of risk than he agreed to.
Mr H has also suggested that a review letter sent to him in October 2018 stated that small 
tweaks were able to be made to the investment by the portfolio manager without consent,  
and he considers that he shouldve been asked for consent for the changes that were made. 
But while I agree that this indicates that he may be asked for consent, I dont think that 
consent was required to make the changes to the portfolio  and the portfolio manager acted 
within the agreement originally set out. The portfolios recommended by 1825 were not bespoke to individuals, with a number of 
investors with funds held in each portfolio. I dont think it was necessary or efficient to gain 
consent for every investment decision that needed to be made in a timely manner in order to 
manage the portfolio effectively.
And having reviewed the position of Mr Hs investment, I cannot see that he has been 
financially disadvantaged by the decisions made on his behalf either. Although there have 
been periods where there were losses, these were short-term and are reflective of the 
difficult market conditions during this time. And overall, Mr Hs investment has gained value. 
I appreciate that Mr H was disappointed with the investment performance, but I dont think 
this was due to any fault on 1825s part. So, it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman