DRN-3385246
The complaint
Mr H complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided him with a guarantor loan as he says 
it didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan.
What happened
Mr H was approved with a guarantor loan in January 2021. The loan was for £8,000 over a 
term of 60 months with a monthly repayment of around £260. 
In December 2021 Mr H complained to Bamboo. He said it had irresponsibly provided him 
with the loan; because had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, it would have 
identified the loan was unaffordable for him. Bamboo didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, so he 
brought it to our service for review.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Bamboo hadnt 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to fully understand Mr Hs financial position 
before approving the loan. But, when she went on to review what more detailed checks 
would likely have shown Bamboo at the time, she considered it would still likely have 
reached the same decision to lend to Mr H. As such, our investigator concluded Bamboo 
made a fair lending decision when approving Mr H with the loan.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators outcome. In summary, he said hed taken out a 
number of other lines of credit in the lead up to this loan; and that he wouldnt be left with 
what he considered to be a reasonable level of disposable income per month when all 
deductions were accounted for. Mr H more recently let us know his loan with Bamboo has 
now been repaid in full.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. Bearing in mind
the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions I need to
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Hs complaint. These are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr H to satisfy itself that he 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mr Hs ability to afford the loan and repay it 
sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete 
proportionate checks  it must also consider the information it obtains from these checks to 
go on and make a fair lending decision.
Bamboo has said Mr H declared his monthly income as around £2,846 which it says it 
verified through open banking. It also says it obtained Mr Hs share of his monthly housing 
costs which he declared as around £315 and used its internal credit scoring model to identify 
Mr Hs normal living expenses, based on Office of National Statistics data  for which it 
allocated around £465. It also completed a credit file check and used the information it 
obtained to identify Mr Hs monthly credit commitments which it calculated as around £1,420. 
Bamboo says its calculations show that Mr H was left with sufficient disposable income of 
around £390 after taking into account repayment of this loan. It says it therefore completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks and fairly concluded the loan was affordable to Mr H.
Ive carefully considered Bamboos argument, but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks. I say this because as our investigator has said, the 
information Bamboo obtained showed Mr Hs use of credit had increased within the months 
leading up to this loan  which could suggest he was potentially becoming increasingly 
reliant on credit. 
The information within Mr Hs credit file obtained by Bamboo shows hed opened five 
accounts within the six months leading up to this loan increasing his indebtedness by around 
£5,500. Two were unsecured loans with one being repaid at the time of this loan application. 
Mr H had also opened two current accounts which reported as having nil limits, and a 
telecommunications account. And there were signs of some increased use of Mr Hs credit 
card accounts in the lead up to this loan. 
The purpose of this loan is detailed as debt consolidation, but this loan wouldnt have 
enabled Mr H to repay all his existing debts; although it is documented that Mr Hs intentions 
were to repay outstanding credit card debt. As such, hed still have needed to make 
payments towards a proportion of his existing debts, in addition to this new loan. 
I consider Bamboo needed to obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial 
circumstances by verifying his actual expenditure to ensure the loan was sustainably 
affordable for him across the full term, rather than using data based on the average person 
with Mr Hs circumstances. 
Would further checks have shown Mr H would have been able to meet any repayments 
sustainably?
As I dont consider Bamboo completed proportionate checks, Ive gone on to consider what 
further checks would likely have shown.Bamboo could have verified the information in a number of ways. Bamboo says it had 
access to some of Mr Hs bank account details via open banking at the time of the lending; 
and that it obtained a copy of bank statements for another of Mr Hs accounts as part of its 
review of his complaint. The statements it has provided this service range from December 
2020 to April 2021 across two accounts  so largely after the loan was approved. 
Mr H has said he doesnt consider the disposable income Bamboo calculated he would be 
left with each month to be sustainably affordable for him, based on the term of the loan. In 
responses to our service, hes calculated that he would be left with a disposable income of 
around £230 per month; and in later correspondence has said it would be a lower figure than 
this when taking into account other expenditure like council tax and insurance payments. 
When reaching this figure Mr Hs calculations include credit commitments not evidenced 
within his credit file, as well as regular informal loan repayments to family. While these 
werent recorded on the credit file Bamboo obtained, these would likely have been evident to 
Bamboo had it completed more detailed checks, as is evidenced from the further statements 
it received when investigating the complaint. So, Ive taken these payments into account as I 
consider had Bamboo looked to obtain a thorough understanding of his finances, it would 
have likely identified this information. 
But having taken Mr Hs testimony and calculations into account, and the information 
contained within the bank statements we have, I cant agree that Mr H would be left with an 
unreasonable level of disposable income per month as he has suggested. 
Mr Hs income on his bank statements is largely in line with the income of around £2,846 he 
declared to Bamboo. From the information I can take from Mr Hs bank statements Ive seen 
nothing which leads me to conclude Bamboos figure of around £465 for essential living 
expenses is unreasonable. Taking into account the evidenced credit commitments from the 
credit file Bamboo obtained at the time, and the additional commitments Mr H has made us 
aware of and that are evident from his bank statements, his total monthly credit 
commitments appear to be broadly in line with Bamboos calculations  at around £1,450. 
Mr H has calculated his credit commitments to total around £1,720. However, the difference 
here is the figure used for Mr Hs mortgage payment  which Bamboo took as £315 which is 
50% of the total payment. Mr H has said within his complaint to this service that he was 
paying the full mortgage payment as his partner had been shielding during COVID and was 
on a reduced income at the time of this application; so, a larger proportion of his income was 
used to cover household bills like the mortgage, council tax and insurance payments. But I 
dont consider Bamboo allocating 50% of the mortgage payment to Mr H in its affordability 
calculations to be unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because Ive listened to the calls between Mr H and Bamboo at the application 
stage. Bamboo asked if Mr H had experienced any changes in circumstances due to COVID, 
and Mr H did confirm hed been furloughed, although he said hed always received 100% 
pay throughout and he considered his job was safe in the future. He explained that his 
partner had been shielding at the start of the pandemic, so income had been reduced and 
forbearance was agreed with some lenders. But Mr H confirmed that wasnt the case any 
longer as his partner was back working again. When Bamboo asked about possible further 
forbearance Mr H confirmed he saw no need for this and that all creditor payments were 
being made again. 
Mr H declared on the application that his share of the housing costs was £315; and the 
mortgage account is confirmed as being joint on Mr Hs credit file, so his declaration here 
doesnt feel unreasonable. In addition, there was no mention from Mr H during the calls that 
although his partner was back working that she was receiving a reduced income. So, I dont consider, had Bamboo completed reasonable and proportionate checks at the time, that it 
would likely have reached a different outcome when accepting Mr Hs declared monthly 
housing cost of £315 for its affordability calculations.  
So, taking all of this information into account I consider it appears Mr H would have been left 
with in excess of around the £230 per month he initially calculated he would be left with; 
which I consider to be a reasonable level of disposable income. 
Although Mr Hs credit file showed an increase in is reliance on credit within the six months 
leading up to this loan; he was managing his debts relatively well. Mr Hs credit file showed 
that his utilisation of his revolving credit was around 70% of available limits. Hed made 
minimum payments in two of the previous 36 months; but there were no minimum payments 
within the last 12 months. Mr Hs credit file also showed all accounts were up to date with no 
missed payments within the last 36 months; or any defaults or CCJs registered. 
It also showed the use of his overdraft facilities had reduced with one current account 
reporting a reducing outstanding debit balance in the recent months; and all others reporting 
a nil balance at the point of this application. While I dont doubt Mr Hs testimony that he was 
using his overdraft facility, his credit file appears to show this was cleared in full each month 
as his account returned to a credit position.
Mr H confirmed this loan was to consolidate two exiting credit cards with one being cleared 
in full and the other being reduced to roughly £1,000. As the purpose of this loan was debt 
consolidation, Ive also taken into account that Bamboo wasnt increasing Mr Hs total overall 
indebtedness when providing this lending. 
Therefore, without any contrary information I cant be satisfied the further checks Bamboo 
should have completed would have led to it reasonably concluding this loan and the 
consolidation Mr H intended would be sustainably unaffordable to him. 
As such I cant be satisfied Bamboo Limited acted unfairly by approving this loan for Mr H; 
and therefore, it doesnt need to take any further action in resolution of this complaint. 
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen anything which leads me to conclude Bamboo acted unfairly in any other way 
in relation to Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman