DRN-1423462
 
The complaint
Mr G makes a number of complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc following his attempts to 
make two international transfers.
What happened
Mr G says he wished to transfer £60,000 in two payments to a family member in Canada. He 
says he tried to make the payment on Sunday 4 August 2019 but was concerned the 
payment hadn't been successful and so phoned HSBC. Mr G says HSBC told him there was 
no record of a payment and told him to make two payments the following day which he did. 
He says on 6 August 2019 he saw that HSBC had placed blocks on his account, and so he 
called it to discuss. Mr G says he felt pressured into cancelling the transactions as he didn't 
have his family member's account details with him and was told he would be liable for a 
mistake. But discovered a few days later that one of the transactions had been processed. 
Mr G in summary says HSBC has made a number of mistakes and that when the second 
payment was processed he suffered an exchange rate loss. He also says HSBC said 
international payments to another HSBC account, as this was, would not attract a charge 
when that wasn't the case.
HSBC says the first attempted transaction was on a Sunday and so couldn't be processed. It 
says it tried to call Mr G on 5 August to check the transaction was genuine and as it couldn't 
speak to Mr G placed the restrictions on his account. HSBC says Mr G decided to cancel the 
transactions but accepts it processed one and has apologised. It says the unintended 
consequence was that first transaction was processed using a better exchange rate. It also 
says its website makes clear it does not charge for a transaction to another HSBC account 
but says the receiving bank may charge. HSBC has offered £150 compensation.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our investigator thought overall the compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator thought the reason the transaction could not be 
processed on 4 August was because it was a Sunday and that HSBC was then entitled to 
check it the following day for security reasons. The investigator accepted HSBC then made a 
mistake by processing a cancelled transaction but couldn't recommend HSBC pay for the 
subsequent exchange rate difference on the second transaction. The investigator thought 
there were two different business entities involved and so couldn't recommend HSBC refund 
any charges.
Mr G doesn't accept that view and in summary says HSBC should have provided a record of 
pending payments and it frightened him into cancelling the transactions, which meant he 
suffered the exchange rate loss.  He says HSBC hasn't addressed the issue of charges and 
the advice he received on 4 August 2019 was incorrect and he's spent about 80 hours 
dealing with this complaint.
I asked HSBC for further information including the call in which Mr G cancelled the 
transactions. I also asked it to clarify its policy on charges.HSBC has told me it can't locate the call and says it makes clear it will not charge its 
customer for these sorts of payments but the receiving bank may and that is what took place 
here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that HSBC's offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what's taken 
place.
I make clear to Mr G that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so its 
not our role to tell a business what its security and fraud policy is or how it runs its business. 
That means I can't fairly tell HSBC how it decides to record information about pending 
transactions or what security measures it takes. 
I have no doubt Mr G was concerned about sending a large amount of money to Canada 
and wanted to check on 4 August 2019 that the transaction had been processed 
successfully. I don't know why HSBC couldn't have shown that transaction as pending but I 
have also explained that I think such matters are for HSBC to decide upon when exercising 
commercial judgement. I also think this was a Sunday and that the transaction couldn't be 
processed that day.
There is no doubt Mr G then made the transactions the following day but HSBC wished to 
speak to him before authorising them. I have explained that I think HSBC was entitled to 
carry out security checks and I can see that Mr G accepts that such checks and measures 
are appropriate. I'm also satisfied that HSBC tried to speak to Mr G but I appreciate he had 
started his holiday. So I don't think HSBC made a mistake by restricting Mr G's account or 
placing the transactions on hold.
I would have liked to have listened to the call between the parties in which Mr G says he was 
frightened into cancelling the two transactions. HSBC hasn't explained why it can't find it. But 
I think it likely HSBC told Mr G that if the account details were incorrect then he would be 
liable for any loss. I also think that whilst Mr G was confident he had not made a mistake 
with those details, equally he didn't wish to take the risk of a mistake as he was away from 
home and without the ability to check them. In those circumstances I'm satisfied on balance 
that HSBC correctly advised Mr G of the risks of proceeding and it was Mr G's decision to 
cancel both transactions.
There is no dispute here that HSBC didn't cancel both transactions and I'm sure Mr G would 
have been concerned about the potential implications of that. I can see that the payment 
was sent to the correct recipient and the unintended consequence was, that the transaction 
processed by mistake resulted in a more favourable exchange rate. I'm satisfied that HSBC 
has fairly apologised for that mistake and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation. I'm satisfied that offer fairly reflects the time Mr G spent on the telephone to 
HSBC and that I don't think he suffered any actual financial loss.
I appreciate that Mr G would like HSBC to refund the exchange rate difference on the 
second transaction. But I don't think that would be fair or reasonable. I say that as I'm 
satisfied HSBC acted in line with its security and fraud measures by blocking the 
transactions and it was Mr G's decision to cancel them and his decision when he made the 
second transaction again.
I also appreciate that HSBC says it does not charge for this type of transaction. I have looked at its website and I think it makes clear it will not charge. I have not seen any 
evidence it did charge Mr G and I think the recipient bank may have charged the recipient 
but that is not something HSBC is responsible for.
I accept Mr G will have unanswered questions about what took place and concerns about 
the missing call. I also accept Mr G could have been given clearer information when he first 
called HSBC. But overall I think the compensation offer is fair and reasonable and  I will 
leave it to Mr G to decide if he wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Mr G's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman