DRN-3223992
The complaint
Ms D and Mr D complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim made under their
home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D and Mr D have a home insurance policy underwritten by Fairmead.
In December 2019, they reported a theft at their property to the police. They said an 
outbuilding had been broken into overnight. And they made a claim to Fairmead to cover the 
missing contents  a childs electric scooter and some fishing equipment.
Fairmead declined the claim because they said Ms D and Mr D werent able to prove 
ownership of the fishing equipment. They had provided a receipt for the scooter, but the cost 
fell below the value of the excess on the policy.
Ms D and Mr D werent happy with this and made a complaint to Fairmead. In response, 
they said the claim had been declined fairly. And they pointed out the policy said they were 
entitled to request further information  for example, receipts, invoices, instruction booklets, 
account statements or photographs - to substantiate a claim.
Ms D and Mr D werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Fairmead should re-consider the claim in light of 
photographic evidence that Ms D and Mr D had provided. He also thought they should 
compensate Ms D and Mr D for the delays in handling the claim.
Fairmead disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with the outcome suggested by our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision on this case. That allowed both Fairmead and Ms D and Mr D an opportunity to 
provide further information or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my 
final decision, which is this services last word on the case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important at the outset to be absolutely clear that when an insurance claim is 
made, the customer must substantiate the loss theyre claiming for. In other words, in 
a theft-related claim, its for the customer to show that they owned the stolen items.
This stands to reason  to allow claims without any evidence to show ownership of 
the items in question would unfairly expose the insurer to exaggerated or dishonest 
claims. So, its not unfair for an insurer to ask a customer to show that they owned 
the items theyre claiming for.
This principle is also set out in most, if not all, home insurance policies. As Fairmead 
pointed out to Ms D and Mr D, their policy has very clear terms which say Fairmead 
are entitled to request information from the customer making a claim, including 
receipts, invoices, bank or credit card statements and/or photographs.
And, as importantly, its a principle established in Common Law that the customer 
making an insurance claim must be able to show that theyve suffered the loss 
theyre claiming for.
In this case, Ms D and Mr D were absolutely clear with Fairmead from the outset that 
they didnt have receipts or invoices to show ownership of the fishing gear. This was 
because most of it had been gifted to Mr D by friends or relatives and/or had been 
bought on eBay (and account records on eBay last only for three years).
These purchases and gifts were to replace fishing equipment which had previously 
been stolen from Ms D and Mr D, in 2015. At that time, Ms D and Mr D had made an 
insurance claim - which was settled.
Im assuming that Ms D and Mr D are saying that they didnt use the money from that 
settlement in 2015 to replace the equipment, but instead replaced it over time with 
purchases from eBay or gifts.
Ms D and Mr D included cover for specified items in their policy with Fairmead. That 
cover was for £2,500 for fishing equipment. Ms D and Mr D have provided a list of 
the fishing equipment stolen in 2019 to Fairmead. The total value of which amounts 
to around £7,000.
The only evidence Ms D and Mr D have been able to provide to show ownership of 
the items in that list is a series of photographs. The photographic images sent to 
Fairmead were taken on a mobile phone, but they arent the originals. It appears 
theyve been copied from social media sources or from other devices.
So, Fairmead cant establish from the files theyve been sent when exactly the 
photographs were taken. And their position is that the photographs may have been 
taken before the time of the original theft in 2015.
Essentially, Fairmead are saying that, as things stand, the photographs provided to 
them dont show or establish that Ms D and Mr D owned the fishing equipment which 
appears in the images in 2019.
I dont think its unreasonable for Fairmead to question the dates of the photographs. 
One of them is an outdoor image of Ms D and Mr Ds child at a lake, with various 
items of fishing equipment in the background. We know the child was born in 2008  
and they appear to be about six or seven years old in the image  which would date it 
to 2014 or 2015.
I think if the child had been demonstrably older in the image, we might have agreed 
that Fairmead should take that as proof of ownership of the equipment after 2015. 
But that isnt the case.So, taking all the circumstances into account and looking at the information and 
evidence available to Fairmead at the time, Im minded to say that it wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable for them to decline the claim.
Theyve been provided with no evidence of ownership other than the photographs. 
And given that the age of the photographs cant be established, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Fairmead to say Ms D and Mr D havent yet done enough to 
substantiate the loss theyre claiming.
If Ms D and Mr D were able to provide more evidence of ownership in future, I would 
expect Fairmead to take that into account and re-consider the claim.
Ms D and Mr D say they bought some of the equipment on eBay. There may not be 
records of that on their eBay account(s), but you might expect that their bank or 
credit card accounts might show transactions for the right amount at the right times.
They may also be able to obtain evidence from the people who gifted (some of) the 
equipment to them. Or find other evidence  more photographs, text messages 
referring to Mr D fishing, fishing permits etc.
Its not unreasonable for Fairmead to suppose that more evidence might be expected 
to be retrievable if Mr D had been fishing regularly and using the equipment between 
2015 and the time of the second theft in December 2019.
And, as I say, I dont think it was unreasonable for Fairmead to decline the claim 
based on the evidence and information theyd been provided with at the time.
And for those reasons, my provisional decision was that the complaint should not be upheld.
The responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead havent provided any further information or evidence or commented on the thinking 
set out in my provisional decision.
Ms D and Mr D havent responded to the provisional decision either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite the lack of further information or comment from Fairmead and Ms D and Mr D, I 
have considered again all of the information and evidence we have on file. And Ive thought 
again very carefully about whether my provisional decision was justified.
I know this will disappoint Ms D and Mr D, but my thinking on this case hasnt changed. Its 
still my view that Fairmead were entitled to decline the claim based on the information and 
evidence they had in hand at the time.
As I said in my provisional decision, if Ms D and Mr D can find or obtain any further evidence 
to show that they owned the fishing equipment at the time of the break-in, I would expect 
Fairmead to take that into account and re-consider the claim.
But as things stand, Im satisfied that Fairmeads decision to decline the claim wasnt unfair 
or unreasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms D and Mr 
Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman