DRN-4066734
The complaint
Mr C complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited (CCFS) charged penalty 
interest when he transferred his fixed rate individual savings account (ISA) to another fixed 
rate ISA account.
What happened
Mr C held a five-year fixed rate cash ISA with CCFS and transferred the balance to a new 
cash ISA with CCFS before the five-year ISA matured. When CCFS applied penalty interest 
Mr C complained that the terms and conditions of the ISA didnt make it clear a penalty 
applied if he transferred his cash ISA to another cash ISA with CCFS.
CCFS didnt uphold the crux of Mr Cs complaint. CCFS said the key features and summary 
of the five-year ISA explained that withdrawals and transfers made from the account before 
the end of the five-year period would incur a 270-day interest penalty. CCFS acknowledged 
that one of its staff told Mr C in error that the penalty had been waived and offered Mr C £50 
for the frustration this had caused. CCFS also offered Mr C the opportunity to move his 
funds back from his new cash ISA and reverse the penalty applied.
Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and thought that CCFS had made it reasonably clear to Mr C that a 
penalty would apply if he transferred his five-year ISA to another ISA with CCF. The 
Investigator thought the offer made by CCFS to pay Mr C £50 for the error it had made and 
corrected before Mr C transferred to the new ISA was a fair and reasonable one. 
Mr C asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to independently assess the merits of Mr Cs complaint. I can confirm Ive 
reviewed the comments and documents Mr C and CCFS provided doe me to consider - this 
includes comments and documents sent after the Investigator provided his thoughts to Mr C 
and CCFS. I understand that Mr C will be disappointed, but after reviewing all of the 
evidence Ive decided the offer of £50 CCFS has already offered to resolve the complaint 
was a fair and reasonable one. I will now explain why.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that CCFS didnt make it clear a penalty charge would be 
applied if he transferred his ISA to another ISA with CCFS before the five-year term ended.  
The key features and summary document for the five-year fixed ISA explained Mr C could 
withdraw or transfer all or part of the money in this account to another ISA provider at any 
time. However, it also said that if Mr C withdrew or transferred out of this ISA within the five-
year period, CCFS would charge 270 days interest on the amount transferred. The same 
document went on to explain - in the Specific Conditions section - what CCFS meant by 
withdrawals and transfers out:
Withdrawals/Transfers out - you can make withdrawals or transfer money from the Account 
at any time during the Fixed Rate Period subject to a charge, by way of loss of interest, 
equivalent to 270 days interest calculated on the amount withdrawn/transferred at the 
interest rate on the date of withdrawal or transfer. This charge may be deducted from the 
balance in your Account on closure/ transfer.
Mr C says the meaning of the word transfer for ISA's is the movement of funds from A to B in 
one action, then remaining in its ISA wrapper and tax-free status. Mr Cs ISA status wasnt 
affected by the transfer, but Mr C was transferring ISA funds from a fixed term account 
before the end of the fixed term. Mr C received the key features and summary documents, 
and Im satisfied these documents made it reasonably clear that Mr C would incur a penalty 
if he ended his five-year fixed rate ISA before the maturity date. Regardless of whether Mr C 
chose to move his cash to another ISA provider or transfer it to another account with CCFS, 
Im satisfied CCFS didnt do anything wrong when it applied the penalty it did. 
CCFS accepts it told Mr C the interest penalty had been waived but apologised for this error 
and offered to pay Mr C £50 to reflect the frustration this caused him. Regardless of CCFS 
re-affirming to Mr C that a penalty would be applied, Mr C later transferred to another CCFS 
ISA under protest. CCFS then applied the interest penalty charge detailed in the key 
features and summary document. 
In its final response to Mr Cs complaints, CCFS confirmed it had already offered to pay Mr C 
£50 for its error. CCFS also offered to reverse the transfer Mr C had made and to refund the 
penalty interest applied. Mr C feels that the reversal offer didnt take into account that he 
would be transferring back to a lower interest rate ISA, and he wanted the penalty hes paid 
to be refunded along with interest. However, in the circumstances of this complaint Ive 
decided it was fair and reasonable for CCFS to apply the penalty it did. So, I will ask CCFS 
to pay Mr C £50 for the frustration it caused Mr C when it told him in error that the penalty 
would be waived. But, in respect of the offer made to reverse the transfer, Mr C should 
contact CCFS directly if he now wants to accept this.
My final decision
Charter Court Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr C £50 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my 
decision is that Charter Court Financial Services Limited should pay Mr C £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman