DRN-2662300
The complaint
Mr C complains about charges incurred after he sent money from his Barclays Bank UK PLC 
account.
What happened
Mr C made two international transfers to a bank in Pakistan in November 2020 for $500 
each. Both payments were made from his Barclays United States Dollars Currency Account. 
He was expecting no charges to be incurred other than the delivery charge of £1, but later 
found out the beneficiary was charged $50. 
When he contacted the bank in Pakistan, he was told the intermediary bank made the 
charges and it said Barclays should have declared these to him.
Mr C then contacted Barclays on 26 November 2020 and complained about the $50 fees. In 
response, Barclays said that it was only responsible to inform a customer of Barclays 
charges and that it wouldnt be aware of which intermediary bank the beneficiary bank used 
or what it would charge. 
As a resolution, Mr C wants Barclays to refund the intermediary bank charges of $50, cover 
his calls costs and provide compensation for the trouble and upset caused due to the 
charges. Mr C would also like to know if he has been discriminated against, being British 
Pakistani, and wants us to investigate further into how many nationalities and countries are 
affected by these charges.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt the £1 delivery charge 
Barclays charged was clearly displayed and she was satisfied that it made Mr C aware of 
this charge. She didnt think that Barclays could have told Mr C about the intermediary 
banks charges because it wasnt aware which bank the beneficiary bank would use or what 
it would charge. She also noted that on its website Barclays explains that there may be other 
third-party banks involved in an international payment, and that they might deduct charges. 
The terms further explain that this could mean that the sum received by the beneficiary may 
be less than the amount sent.
She thought Barclays had done enough to set out its terms in a clear way. She didnt think 
Barclays could have done more to clarify the process or fees charged by other banks unless 
it was approached directly with a query. 
She didnt think Mr C had been discriminated against because he was British Pakistani. She 
thought the charges would have been the same if anyone else had made the same 
transaction. She explained that as we arent regulators, we wouldnt be able to investigate 
discrimination charges against other nationalities and or countries. 
Mr C doesnt agree. He says he doesn't accept that having the terms online is enough. This 
to him is fraud and the bank is using unscrupulous ways to charge innocent consumers. He 
would like this service to review other banks foreign fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Cs frustration at what happened here. But like the investigator I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong. It clearly set out its own fee. It set out on its website that 
intermediary banks may be used. It also made clear that there may be fees for this. Barclays 
has explained that it wouldnt know which intermediary bank the beneficiary bank will use or 
what it would charge. Had Mr C wanted certainty regarding the fees I think he should have 
used a different method of transfer. I dont think it is unreasonable to expect Mr C to look at 
information on Barclays website before carrying out a transfer. Alternatively, he could have 
called the bank to check the position.
I appreciate that Mr C would like there to be an investigation into the charges other banks 
make for similar transactions as he feels there is discrimination. We are not regulators so we 
cannot carry out this kind of work. We can only look at an individual complaint and for the 
reasons Ive set out above I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly. I also agree with the 
investigator that I think anyone who carried out a similar transaction at the same time would 
have had the same outcome. I therefore dont think Mr C has been discriminated against.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman