DRN-1705324
 
The complaint
Miss P has complained about loans granted to her by Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender). Miss P says the loans were unaffordable, and 
she had to borrow from other short term lenders to repay them so should not have been 
agreed.
Miss P brought her complaint to this Service via a claims management company. For 
simplicity, my decision will refer to Miss P throughout.
What happened
Sunny agreed seven loans for Miss P from June 2018 to April 2019. The loans were all 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months and ranged in value from £100 to £200. The 
below table sets out some of the information Sunny has provided about these loans (with 
numbers rounded to the nearest pound).                                                                                  
When Miss P brought her complaint to this Service, four of her loans remained unpaid. I 
understand she has made some repayments since, and the below table includes the latest 
information I have from Sunny.
 
Loan Start date End date Principal (£)Monthly 
repayments 
(£)Total repaid 
(£)
1 19/06/2018 30/11/2018 150 44 263
2 18/08/2018 23/01/2019 150 44 264
3 23/10/2018 23/01/2019 100 33 172
4 19/11/2018  150 50 202
5 13/12/2018  150 46 189
6 15/02/2019  200 67 138
7 11/04/2019  100 31 33
 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ps complaint in part and recommended that Sunny refund all of 
the interest and charges she paid on loans 4 to 7. 
Sunny agreed with this recommendation and offered to put things right in line with it. The 
lender says this means Miss P still owes a small capital balance. Miss P didnt respond to 
our adjudicator. The complaint has now come to me, as an ombudsman, to resolve. As it 
seems loans 4 to 7 are no longer in dispute, my decision will focus on loans 1 to 3. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Miss P took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
Sunny needed to check that Miss P could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Miss P being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Sunny needed to carry out in order 
to reasonably assess whether or not Miss P would be able to meet her repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Sunny says it asked Miss P for information about her income and expenses each time she 
applied for a loan. The lender recorded Miss Ps monthly income as £1,500 for all her loans 
and, based on what she said about her expenses, recorded that she never had less than 
about £500 left over each month after meeting these. Sunny also said that it used 
information from third party credit reference agencies to ensure the loans were affordable for 
Miss P and to check her credit history, though it hasnt provided the results of these checks. 
Miss Ps first three loans ran concurrently but, even considering this, it seems from the 
information she gave to Sunny that she would have enough to be able to meet her combined 
repayments for all three. I have considered that Miss P borrowed over several months 
without fully repaying her loans but the amounts she borrowed were decreasing Altogether, I 
cant say that Ive seen enough strong indications by this point to suggest that Sunny should 
have gone further in its checks or declined to lend to her. 
Miss P continued to borrow from Sunny and took out her fourth loan the month after taking 
out her third, so she then had four loans running and had been indebted to Sunny for about 
five months. She went on to take out more loans shortly after repaying earlier borrowing. So 
I do think at some point, the indications were there that Sunny ought to have stopped lending to Miss P because it wasnt likely that she was managing to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
Sunny has agreed with our adjudication on this matter and offered to put things right for
Miss P regarding her last four loans, in line with what I would direct it to do if I upheld her 
complaint about these. This seems to me to be a fair way to resolve Miss Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
Where we find a loan to have been agreed irresponsibly, this Services approach to putting 
things right is to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower (above the amount 
borrowed) plus compensatory interest. Wed generally expect the borrower to repay the 
capital borrowed as they have had the use of these funds. 
Sunny has offered to resolve this complaint as recommended by our adjudicator, which is to:
a. treat all payments Miss P made towards loans 4, 5, 6 and 7 as payments towards the 
original capital borrowed; and
b. refund any payments above the original capital amount of each loan to Miss P along 
with 8% simple interest* per year from the dates the overpayments were made to the 
date this complaint is settled; and
c. remove any adverse information about loans 4 and 5 and remove all information 
about loans 6 and 7 from Miss Ps credit file when these loans are settled.
 
If this means there is still an outstanding capital balance left then Sunny can use any refund 
calculated in a) and b) above to repay this. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Miss Ps complaint in part and require Elevate 
Credit International Limited trading as Sunny to put things right for her as Ive outlined.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman