DRN-3957543
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, approved for him lines of credit he 
could not afford.
What happened
Drafty offered its customers a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined
and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required. The credit
was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Draftys records show that in February 2019 Mr W applied for a credit facility of £1,000. Mr W
declared a monthly income from a full time job of £1,560 with outgoings of £725. Draftys
records show it calculated that using those declared figures, Mr Ws disposable income was
£835.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to
illustrate the likely cost to Mr W (clause 5). On the assumption that Mr W drew down the full
£1,000 on the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments then the total
amount payable would have been just under £1,363.15. This would have equated to
repayments of just under £114 a month.
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced
ten days before Mr Ws salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6 which
I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near
Mr Ws monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available.
Mr W complained to Drafty in April 2021. His original letter of complaint has been sent to us.
In that letter Mr W explained that he ought never to have been given the original £1,000 line 
of credit in March 2019. And after he had borrowed from another lender to pay it off in early
2020, Drafty ought to have done more checking about his financial circumstances and
realised that hed had trouble managing the account and then ought to have suspended or
closed his account.
Mr W says that Drafty was wrong not to do this and instead allowed the line of credit to
continue but at a reduced credit limit of £750. Since drawing that full £750 hes only made
the minimum payments into the account and drawn down funds when available.
Mr W had used an on-line resolution service to commence the complaint and then used that
on-line portal to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in June 2021.
In that letter he has told the Financial Ombudsman that he wants a resolution which is for
Drafty to calculate what interest/charges i have incurred due to your irresponsible lending
decision and reimburse this to me (minus the balance i currently owe)
Drafty tells us that after June 2021 he stopped repaying the account and so it was in default
from September 2021 and a Notice of Termination was sent to Mr W on 25 September 2021.
The account was transferred to a third party for collections from 22 October 2021. The
account remains with that third party, but my understanding is that Drafty retains ownership
of the debt.
On Mr Ws complaint form when referring his complaint to us, he reiterated most of the
above and added
I have an outstanding balance with Drafty which I am paying the minimum amount
back each month, by my rough calculation about 90% is interest, at this current rate 
I believe it will take me 6 years to pay of [sic] in which time I would of payed [sic] over
500% of the original 'credit'.
Mr W received more than one final response letter from Drafty  some of which likely were
follow up letters in the FRL format. A significant change occurred with the issue of the FRL
dated 23 November 2021 in which Drafty had altered its decision on the complaint. It
explained to Mr W that it was going to uphold his complaint in part. It set out some of the
details it had received from Mr W at the time of the initial application and indicated that it
considered the initial approval of the credit facility had been correct.
However, Drafty went on to conclude from information Mr W gave it during the life of the
facility that there was a possibility that
continued use of the line beyond August 16,2020 may not have been sustainable in
the long term.
Drafty put forward its resolution redress offer made then which I do not set out here as
circumstances changed.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that the initial approval of the
credit facility was fine. Draftys review of the complaint had led to it altering its view and
partially upholding from 16 August 2020. However, our adjudicator considered that the
uphold should be from 11 December 2019.
Our adjudicator thought that Drafty ought to have withdrawn Mr Ws credit facility by
11 December 2019 and frozen the interest on his outstanding balance at that point as well.
Our adjudicator gave details as to how she felt that the redress ought to be calculated.
Drafty agreed to the uphold date. It said:
While we are aligned with your view about deciding the upheld date as
11th December 2019, we take a different view on the way you have requested the
calculations to be done.
Its calculations, followed by the offset of the debt owed by Mr W to Drafty meant that the
outstanding debt was extinguished and Mr W was to receive a refund of £22.68.
Mr W has said that he agreed with the calculation formula set out by our adjudicator and
did not accept the calculations set out by Drafty. So that seems Mr W accepts the overall
outcome and by that I mean it seems that Mr W accepts our adjudicators view that the credit
facility being approved initially was the right lending decision by Drafty. But that the facility
credit limit change later was not right.
That part of the complaint which remained unresolved  the redress calculations was passed to me to decide. And in doing that review of the complaint I chose to issue a 
provisional decision as I had provisionally decided to alter the uphold date to 6 January 
2020. That was issued on 15 February 2023 with a  reply date of 1 March 2023. Mr W has 
replied to agree and Drafty has responded with an acceptance of the provisional decision 
and new calculations. My Provisional decision is set out here and in smaller type to 
differentiate it. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have reviewed that part relating to the redress 
calculations formula. In doing that I have provisionally decided to alter the uphold date to 6 January 
2020. And I say that because the original premise for the uphold remains the same  that Drafty ought 
not to have allowed the facility to continue after December 2019.
I have reviewed the financial circumstances Mr W has shown us through his credit file and
some limited number of bank account statements. And I have seen that something
significant occurred around that time such that Mr Ws credit file recorded a series of
accounts being more than three months in arrears and accounts which had been defaulted.
These included credit cards and payday loans. Our adjudicator has already used this
evidence to persuade Drafty to accept that line of argument. And I endorse it.
Drafty was concerned enough to drop the credit limit to £750 and this ought to have
prompted further checks which wouldve highlighted the poor financial state Mr W had found
himself in around that time. And as I demonstrate below I think that date was early
January 2020 and not 11 December 2019. I think the fairest and correct uphold date is
6 January 2020 and I explain here.
I endorse the merits outcome which all parties seem to have agreed on subject to this
clarification from me  hence me deciding to issue a provisional decision.
The Statements of Account for Mr Ws credit facility show that his balance on
11 November 2019 was £1,111.51 which was made up of £1,055.71 from the previous
month, plus interest charged of £55.80. But as Mr W had not paid the minimum payment the
account was suspended. The credit limit was £1,000 still but Mr W had no credit left and the
new minimum payment of £131.51 was due on 21 November 2019.
The next statement of account dated 10 December 2019 shows that Mr W failed to make
that minimum payment before 21 November 2019 and the new minimum amount to pay
before 20 December 2019 was £183.71. So, the new overall debt total was £1,163.71.
Mr W paid that off and the records I have - duplicated here (the pound signs are deliberately
absent)  show me that was on 6 January 2020. The right hand column details the
drawdowns Mr W made and the one to the left of that details the payments made by Mr W to
the account.
Wed, 29 Jan 2020 14:41:28 
GMTAdditional Draw 0 100
Mon, 06 Jan 2020 19:35:03 
GMTOnline 1212.31 0
Mon, 23 Sep 2019 13:12:53 
GMTAdditional Draw 0 20
Fri, 20 Sep 2019 07:03:31 
GMTAutomated Payment System 73.75 0
Mr Ws total amount he paid off was a further £48.60 more = £1,212.31. So, it seems that
further interest had been added between the due date of 20 December 2019 and the
6 January 2020.
After that Mr Ws balance was zero and the next statement which covered the period
11 December 2019 to 11 January 2020 showed that his balance was zero, his credit limit
was £750 and his account was no longer suspended.So, one of the reasons for this provisional decision is to correct what I think may be a point
of detail in our adjudicators view where she said:
Mr W missed his monthly payment for a second time in November 2019 and the
credit facility remained suspended. However, it appears that Mr W went on to repay
his outstanding balance in full between 22 November and 10 December 2019.
However, I have seen that the closing balance on 10 December 2019 was £1,163.71. And
the account was taken to zero between 11 December 2019 and 11 January 2020 which,
from the duplicated payment records Ive included above, seems to have been done on
6 January 2020.
The Drafty statements date showing this and the new credit limit of £750 was on the
Statement of Account which was dated 11 January 2020. I doubt that Drafty would have
reduced the credit limit and un-suspended the account until 6 January 2020 when the
balance was paid off. So, I think that the uphold date ought to be 6 January 2020.
The significance is that whichsoever way the redress paragraphs are worded, Mr W did not
owe anything from 6 January 2020 and I think its fair and reasonable that he repaid what he
owed on the initial credit limit and use of the account which was done on 6 January 2020.
After that there were new drawdowns which ought not to have occurred as the account
ought to have been suspended permanently from the new credit limit date.
So, I have set out the redress paragraphs below which I consider to be fair and reasonable
in Mr Ws case.
The repayment issue as part of Mr Ws complaint
As I outlined earlier, Mr W included this in his complaint form.
I have an outstanding balance with Drafty which I am paying the minimum amount
back each month, by my rough calculation about 90% is interest, at this current rate i
believe it will take me 6 years to pay of [sic] in which time I would of payed [sic] over
500% of the original 'credit'.
As the redress set out below extinguishes what he owes to Drafty  or is very likely to do that
 then I consider this part of Mr Ws complaint irrelevant going forward. And so, I say no
more about it.
This is the end of that duplicated provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated earlier, Mr W had some queries with our adjudicator upon receipt of the 
provisional decision. But Mr W has accepted the outcome.
Drafty has responded by agreeing to the provisional decision and has submitted new 
calculations. I am grateful for its positive response. 
So, I have issued my final decision today and as both parties agreed to my provisional 
findings and the redress calculations then I have no reason to depart from the provisional 
findings.
So, for the same reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. Putting things right
My understanding is that the account was passed to a third party collector but the loan
ownership remains with Drafty. So, it should bring that debt back in-house, remove any of
the third party charges allocated to the account and not pass them on to Mr W.
This is subject to the figures being re-calculated to the decision acceptance date, assuming
Mr W accepts the decision.
Re-work Mr Ws credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 6 January 2020 onwards are removed and payments made to the account are 
accounted for to reduce the balance
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr W, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement.
Drafty had confirmed that it would be willing to remove any adverse payment information
recorded about the credit facility from Mr Ws credit file from the 11 December 2019
onwards. But I now make that 6 January 2020. Drafty has confirmed this too. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman