DRN-4448157
The complaint
Miss B complains that Quidie Limited trading as Fernovo (Fernovo) is holding her liable for 
the debt on a loan which she says she neither applied for nor knew about. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in December 2022 a loan was taken out with Fernovo in Miss Bs 
name for £200. Miss B subsequently got in touch with Fernovo to let it know she hadnt 
applied for the loan. Fernovo investigated things and ultimately couldnt reach agreement 
with Miss B, so she referred her complaint about Fernovo to us. Our Investigator couldnt 
resolve things informally, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator.
In this case, my first consideration is: did Miss B enter into this loan agreement, or was it 
done without her knowledge and consent as she alleges? 
I understand Fernovo has accepted Miss B didnt apply for the loan. And so its said its 
willing to waive all interest and charges on the loan, and to delete the loan from Miss Bs 
credit file. Since Im also satisfied Miss B most likely didnt apply for or agree to this loan, I 
agree: I dont think it would be fair for Fernovo to hold Miss B to the terms of the loan 
agreement she never agreed to, so Fernovo shouldnt hold Miss B liable for interest and 
charges, neither should there be a record of the loan on Miss Bs credit file  so if there 
currently is, this should be removed. 
However, Im also satisfied in this case that it wouldnt be fair for Fernovo to pursue Miss B 
for the outstanding loan funds. I understand what Fernovo has said about if the loan funds 
paid into Miss Bs account were moved on from there to her ex-partners account without her 
authorisation, this would be something Miss B could take up with her bank. However, Miss B 
has told us she hasnt done this. She hasnt brought a complaint here about her bank. And I 
need to decide this complaint about Fernovo in front of me  which is about whether it would 
be fair for Fernovo to pursue Miss B for the loan funds. And, for the same reasons as 
explained by our Investigator, I dont think this would be fair. Im satisfied Miss B has not 
benefited from the loan funds and that there isnt any other reason in this case why it would 
be fair for her to be pursued for them.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Quidie Limited trading as 
Fernovo to:
write off the loan and not pursue Miss B for any repayment of the loan; and
amend Miss Bs credit file removing any information about the loan and searches.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman