DRN-3073031
The complaint
Mr C complains about the requirements Lloyds Bank PLC has put in place, for reopening his 
dormant account. 
What happened
Mr C said hed been trying to reactivate a dormant account with Lloyds for a considerable 
amount of time. He said hed been sending letters, and so far hed sent the documents that 
Lloyds asked for three times. But he said Lloyds twice didnt respond, although the 
documents were delivered to its building and signed for by it. 
Mr C said that the third time, Lloyds accepted it had received his documents. But it said it 
wouldnt accept a document certified by the police. And it wanted him to send a statement 
which showed his address and also showed transactions, so that this could be used as proof 
of address. 
Mr C said his bank doesnt print his address on the same page as his statements, to comply 
with European data protection requirements. He said he was sending two pages, one with 
his address and one with transactions. Mr C also said that his passport had been certified by 
the ministry of the interior, which was in charge of issuing passports in the country. He said 
that is done through the police, so he thought that Lloyds should accept a copy of his 
passport certified by the police. 
Mr C said he couldnt get a document certified by an official from an embassy, as hes 
currently living in his home country, where there are no embassies. And Mr C also told us 
that he had previously submitted a copy of his passport certified by his lawyer, but this was 
one of the documents that Lloyds had lost after it was delivered to the bank.
Mr C said he needed this account to be reopened, so he could provide freelance services 
into the UK. But he thought Lloyds was just trying to stop him from reopening his account. 
He said this was racism.
Lloyds said that Mr Cs account hadnt been used since 2015, and there was a relatively 
small balance remaining. It had written to Mr C in 2018 and 2020 saying that the account 
was dormant. In 2021, it wrote in response to his request to reopen the account. Lloyds said 
it had explained to Mr C what documentation it would need to reopen his account. 
Lloyds said it had no record of receiving the documents Mr C said hed sent earlier. It wasnt 
able to accept the documentation it had received, which had been certified by Mr Cs local 
police. Lloyds suggested that Mr C could come into a branch in the UK in order to reopen his 
account.
Lloyds said it didnt intend to exclude Mr C, and strongly refuted any suggestion that it was 
being in any way racist. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that its not his role to 
say whether a businesss processes are discriminatory, thats a legal finding that only a court 
can decide. But he appreciated Mr Cs concern, so hed considered what Mr C said. 
Our investigator said that a business asking for certified copies of documents isnt unusual. 
Particularly when Lloyds may be sent documents its unfamiliar with, as theyre from 
overseas. So, our investigator said that its reasonable that Lloyds had asked for documents 
to be certified.
Our investigator said Mr C hadnt been able to show us the other documents he had sent, or 
to show what happened to the other letters he sent to Lloyds. So our investigator said he 
wasnt able to ask Lloyds to reactivate Mr Cs account now, as theres unfortunately nothing 
to show Lloyds had received the necessary documents. 
Our investigator said that he understood this was frustrating for Mr C, but he said Mr C 
would have to send Lloyds the documents it wanted. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the certificate he sent Lloyds had been issued by the highest 
commission that issues passports. He said because he lives in his home country, he cant go 
to an embassy. Mr C didnt think wed helped him at all. He felt that Lloyds should accept his 
proof of what is the highest body in his home country for issuing proof of identity. And if our 
investigator wasnt going to make Lloyds do that, then Mr C asked for this complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for review
This case then came to me for review, and a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
First, I thought about whether Mr C has already sent the documents that Lloyds wants.
Mr C has said hes sent a copy of his passport which met Lloyds requirements, as it was 
signed by his lawyer. But he says Lloyds has lost this. 
Unfortunately, Mr C said he couldnt show us now that these documents were sent, or that 
they had been received at Lloyds.
Mr C also said that he wasnt able to send a copy of his bank statement with his address. So 
it doesnt look like Mr C has sent Lloyds all the documents Lloyds has asked for, to reopen 
his account. 
Then I thought about whether it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask for these documents in a 
particular format, or whether it should just accept what Mr C has sent. 
I know Mr C says that Lloyds should just accept that the national police are an appropriate 
authority to certify his passport. But I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to ask for 
people who have the same jobs, and the same official status, to certify copies of documents, 
in different countries. This helps it to be able to process things safely. So I dont think Lloyds 
has to accept a copy of Mr Cs passport signed by the police.And Mr C says he cant send a copy of a statement with transactions, which also has his 
address on. But Lloyds wants to be sure that the address Mr C is providing is recent. And 
one way to show that is for Mr C to send one piece of paper with recent transactions, and his 
current address. 
If Mr C cant get that, then Lloyds has also said it will accept other documents, so he can 
prove his address in different ways. I think thats a reasonable decision for Lloyds to make, 
so I dont think Lloyds has to accept anything from Mr Cs bank which doesnt have his 
address and recent transactions on the same page.
Finally, I thought about whether Lloyds is trying to stop Mr C from reopening his account. 
And I dont think it is. It has looked carefully at the documents he has sent, in case it was 
able to accept them after all. And although it wasnt able to accept them, its said that Mr C 
can either go into a branch, if hes in the UK at some point, or he can send documents again. 
I thought it might help to set out clearly what Lloyds would like to see. It appears that this has 
caused some confusion, and (although I dont think it has affected this case) I think there 
have been some slight differences in the documents that Lloyds has said it will accept. So 
Ive looked at the information Lloyds has sent Mr C, and this is what I understand that Lloyds 
will accept. Ive checked this with Lloyds.
Lloyds has asked Mr C to provide proof of his ID, and of his address. 
The proof of his ID can be any one of the following -
his passport
his EU/EEA Identity Card, or
EU/EEA driving licence. 
The proof of his address can be any one of the following -
A statement from his bank showing transactions, which shows his address, and is no 
more than six months old,
A utility bill, utility statement or a certificate or letter from a supplier of utilities, which 
shows his address, and is no more than six months old (when Lloyds says utilities it 
means the business providing a fixed supply of water, gas or electricity to Mr Cs 
home)
A current full EU/EEA driving licence with a photo, as long as Mr C didnt use the 
same document as proof of his identity.
Mr C can go into a branch, next time hes in the UK, and show Lloyds this proof. 
Or he can obtain a certified copy of the documents, and send the copies in the post. (Mr C 
can send Lloyds the original bills or bank statements if he doesnt want to have these 
certified.)
If Mr C wants to get documents certified, then Lloyds has suggested some ways he can do 
this. Its suggested he can get someone from an embassy to sign. I know thats not helpful 
for Mr C, he cant easily visit an embassy while hes in his home state.Lloyds also said that Mr C could ask a lawyer who is a member of a recognised public body, 
or a barrister, accountant or notary public, to sign. Lloyds asks that the certification be done 
like this  
The certifier must 
stamp the photocopies with their own official stamp
state their official title or role
provide their name and contact details
write out the following  I hereby certify that I have met the individual and this is a 
true likeness and copy of the original document. (Mr C should ask the person 
certifying the document to write this on the copy thats being certified. Mr C shouldnt 
write this out himself.)
I appreciate that this requires a document to be certified in a language other than Mr Cs 
own, but Mr C has told us he has been able to get this in the past. 
I know that providing this documentation will put Mr C to some trouble, and I do understand 
that this is also more difficult for Mr C when hes not in the UK. But Lloyds has to balance out 
two different things. On one hand, it doesnt want to make things unnecessarily difficult for 
Mr C. On the other hand, it has to be sure that its accepting valid ID, and isnt allowing 
someone else to reopen Mr Cs account. And it is a little harder for Lloyds to be sure that ID 
is valid, when the ID comes from a different country. 
I know that Mr C thinks that Lloyds is doing this because he lives overseas, so he thinks 
Lloyds is deliberately putting obstacles in his way. But I think that the balance Lloyds has 
struck here, between being sure that the ID and proof of address is valid, and not making 
things unnecessarily difficult for Mr C, represents a reasonable approach. I dont think its 
being unfair. So, although I know that Mr C will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman