DRN-2383034
The complaint
A complains Zurich Insurance Plc unfairly refused a claim on its farm motor insurance policy. 
As been represented for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the representatives 
comments as being those of A.
What happened
In November 2018 A had a car stolen. Its since been recovered. A claimed on its Zurich 
farm motor insurance policy. But the insurer refused to pay. It relied on an exclusion in the 
policy to do that. The exclusion says loss isnt covered when a vehicle is unattended unless 
all its windows and doors are locked and ignition keys removed. Zurich said As car was 
unattended and unlocked with a key left in it.
A complained about the decision. It accepted the car was unlocked. But it said there hadnt 
been a key left in it. But Zurich still refused to pay the claim.   
 
Our Investigator said it was fair for Zurich to rely on the exclusion to refuse the claim. So she 
didnt recommend it pay the claim or do anything differently. As A didnt accept that the 
complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurichs relied on the following policy term to refuse As claim:
We will not be liable for: loss or damage to the vehicle when unattended unless all windows, 
doors, roof openings or hood are closed and locked and all ignition keys or other removable 
ignition device and keys or devices needed to lock the vehicle are removed from the vehicle.
 
The exclusion was set out, as Id expect it to, in the policy summary as a significant, feature, 
exclusion or limitation. 
Zurichs refused the claim as it feels the car was unattended, unlocked and left with an 
ignition key when it was stolen. Its accepted by A that the car was unattended and unlocked. 
But it denies there being a key.  
The exclusion, it seems to me, allows a claim to be refused if an unattended car was either 
unlocked or had an ignition key in it. It doesnt seem to require both. So as its accepted the 
car was unlocked its not necessary for me to consider if a key was in the car at the time of 
the theft. It wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. Either way it would 
be fair for Zurich to rely on the exclusion to refuse the claim. 
As said Zurich didnt refer to the car being unlocked until more than a year after the theft. It 
said the sole reason given for the decline was there being a key in the car. A feels its 
unreasonable for Zurich to introduce a new reason so late on in the claim. 
Our investigator explained to A that Zurich had referred to the car being unsecured in its 
initial claim decline letter. That letter sets out the exclusion  and in its conclusion highlights 
the car being unlocked at the time of the theft taking place. It adds theres no evidence of the 
car being broken into. So I dont agree that Zurich only introduced the car being unlocked 
late on in the claim. 
As gone on to says Zurich didnt refer to the car being unlocked in its final response to the 
complaint. As of the opinion that this service should only consider the reasons for decline 
set out in that letter.  
The final response letter refers to the car being unsecured on at least three occasions. It 
does seem to be part of its reason for refusing the claim. I accept Zurich could have been 
clearer. But when considering complaints this service considers all the relevant evidence 
and arguments  not just selected documents. So Im satisfied Zurich fairly relied on the car 
being unlocked as a reason for refusing the claim. 
As complained that Zurich made factual errors in its correspondence. It may have done so 
but I cant see how its affected the outcome of the complaint or caused any loss to A. And 
Zurich does seem to have caused some unnecessary delay with the claim. But again, and 
for the same reasons as given by the investigator, I cant see how thats caused any 
inconvenience or loss to A.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Zurich Insurance Plc pay As claim or do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman