DRN-3031922
The complaint
Mr S complains, on behalf of the estate of his late father, that DOA Underwriting Limited 
unfairly avoided (cancelled as if it never existed) his fathers commercial property insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr S owned a property management company with his father. Mr S father had a commercial 
property insurance policy for one of the properties the business owned, that was 
underwritten by DOA. The property comprised of two flats, which they rented out. Mr S 
father sadly passed away in late 2018 and the insurance for the property was transferred to 
the name of the estate, for which Mr S was the executor. 
The policy was taken out in 2018 and renewed in 2019. In August 2020 Mr S made a claim 
on the policy after the property was vandalised.
DOA considered the claim but subsequently declined it. It also avoided the policy as it said 
the risk had been misrepresented when it was taken out and renewed for the following 
reasons:
Mr S had said there were no visible cracks in the propertys walls, however it had seen 
images that show cracking on the external walls.
It had seen images of a wall with graffiti on, which it said meant the property wasnt in a 
good state of repair.
The ground floor flat in the building was unoccupied and this hadnt been declared. 
DOA said if it had known this information it wouldnt have offered the policy at all, and 
therefore there had been a qualifying misrepresentation under the Insurance Act 2015 so it 
was entitled to avoid the policy. However it returned the policy premiums as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He disagreed there had been any cracks in the building since 
the property had been owned by his and his fathers property business. And he said the 
graffiti was on a wall that backed onto sealed private land, so couldnt be seen or prevented. 
He also said the flat was only unoccupied due to the vandalism, so it wasnt fair to consider 
this. He made a complaint. 
DOA didnt uphold the complaint as it said it was satisfied a qualifying misrepresentation had 
occurred. So it had acted fairly by avoiding the policy in line with the Insurance Act 2015. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she was satisfied Mr S hadnt provided a fair presentation of the risk when he took out 
and renewed the policy. So thought DOA had acted fairly by avoiding it.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DOA has said that Mr S, and his father, misrepresented the propertys risk by not telling it 
about cracks in the walls, the state of repair of the building and that one of the flats was 
unoccupied for a long period. It says it wouldnt have offered or renewed the policy if it had 
known the full facts. I need to decide if DOA has acted fairly by avoiding the policy.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, when Mr S took out and renewed the policy he had a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, 
the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to 
know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk 
and on what terms.
Here DOA has said Mr S made three different misrepresentations. In order to say its acted 
fairly I only need to be satisfied that one of these amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the act. So Ive started by considering whether Mr S misrepresented the cracks in the 
walls of the property. 
Mr S has said that the cracks DOA has referred to were only visible before his company 
purchased the property in 2012. He says the cracks had been filled in when he bought it, so 
he made a fair presentation by saying there were no visible cracks.
Ive considered this but I dont agree Mr S made a fair presentation of the risk. When taking 
out and renewing the policy Mr S was asked Are there any visible cracks in the walls of the 
Buildings?, to which he answered no. Ive looked at the photos DOA has provided, and 
while the cracks have been filled from 2012, it is still clearly visible right up until 2019 that 
there were cracks in the building that had been repaired. 
Under the Insurance Act Mr S was required to provide all information that may influence the 
insurers decision about the risk. And I think the fact a question was asked about visible 
cracks in the walls, would be enough to make Mr S aware that any cracks  whether 
developing currently, or historic ones - would be something that may influence the 
judgement of the insurer. So by not declaring the repaired cracks on the outside walls, I think 
Mr S wasnt providing a fair presentation of the risk. So Im satisfied there has been a 
misrepresentation. 
The next thing I need to determine, under the Insurance Act 2015, is whether the 
misrepresentation amounts to a qualifying breach. If the insurer can show that it would have 
acted differently if it had been provided with the information, then it meets this definition.
DOA has provided evidence from its underwriting guidance and comment from an 
underwriting manager that shows it wouldnt have offered cover if Mr S had disclosed the 
details of the existing cracks in the walls. Im therefore satisfied that there has been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
In these circumstances, Under the Insurance Act, DOA is entitled to avoid the policy. As this 
is what DOA has done, I am satisfied that it has treated Mr S fairly. 
As Im satisfied that there has been a qualifying misrepresentation in relation to the cracks in 
the walls, I dont need to consider the other two misrepresentations DOA has said Mr S 
made. As DOA has acted fairly based on just this one misrepresentation alone. Under the act, if the insurer believes that the misrepresentation was either deliberate or 
reckless, rather than just careless, then it may keep the policy premiums paid. In this case 
DOA has agreed to refund the policy premiums, which I think is fair in the circumstances. So 
I havent considered this any further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr S, to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman