DRN-1864928
The complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
PPI was added to Mrs Rs existing store card in January 2002. It remained on her card 
account until November 2003 during which time Mrs R was charged a total of £19.68 in 
premiums.
AXA says this happened following a telephone call. Mrs R does not recall receiving a call or 
agreeing to the policy.
The PPI cost £1 per month for every £100 outstanding on the card balance. It wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance if Mrs R was unable to work due to ill- 
health, an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either Mrs R returned to 
work or the balance was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 18 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
There is some dispute about how the PPI came to be added to Mrs Rs account. Ive thought 
about this and AXA has shown us copies of its internal records that show the PPI was added 
after a telephone call. I am aware Mrs R has said she cant recall a telephone call and has 
told us she had a hectic schedule at the time of the sale and feels it unlikely she would have 
taken such a call. But I think it is unlikely the PPI would have been added without some 
interaction having taken place And I am aware that in 2002 AXA were conducting such sales 
calls to customers without PPI on their account. I also have to take into account that any call 
would have not been particularly memorable at the time, and 18 years has passed since 
then. So overall I think it is most likely the PPI was applied to the account during a telephone 
call.AXA had to make it clear the policy was optional.
After so many years it isnt surprising that there is no call recording available. I cant know 
what Mrs R was told during the call, but she had held the card without PPI for some time. 
So, I think Mrs R would have known she didnt have to agree to add PPI to the account. And 
the PPI premiums would likely have appeared on Mrs Rs statements after the telephone 
call.
After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mrs R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs R to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Mrs R clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it is 
unlikely the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need 
to decide whether or not Mrs R would have changed her mind about buying the policy if she 
had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done. I say this 
because:
Mrs R was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
If Mrs R couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 15% of 
the card balance every month until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. And it 
wouldve paid the same benefit if Mrs R lost her job.
Mrs R has told us she would only receive statutory sick pay if she became too unwell to 
work. But the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to this. So, I still think Mrs R could 
have found the policy useful, particularly if she had been unable to work for a lengthy spell.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mrs R wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Mrs R has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the 
sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mrs R was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Mrs R had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman