DRN-3798916
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Brown Shipley & Co Limited communicated with him about his 
investments when their value was falling.  
Mr B is using a representative to bring this complaint. For ease I will refer to all actions as 
being those of Mr B.
What happened
Brown Shipley spoke with Mr B on 10 March 2020 to let him know that that his investment 
portfolio had fallen in value by over 10%. They spoke with him again on 18 March 2020 by 
which time the value had fallen even further. 
Mr B complained to Brown Shipley saying he shouldve been contacted between those dates 
as his investments continued to fall in value.
Brown Shipley didnt uphold the complaint saying they acted under the terms of the 
agreement and that they contacted Mr B as they should have on both occasions. Firstly as 
the value of the investments had fallen more than 10%, and on the second occasion as a 
margin call was to be exercised. They also said several letters were sent in the time in-
between the telephone calls to let Mr B know about the value continuing to decrease. 
Mr B remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought that Brown Shipley shouldve 
emailed Mr B rather than send him letters about the falling value of his investments.  
However our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint saying that even if emails were sent 
they didnt think Mr B wouldve taken a different course of action. They listened to the two 
telephone calls and thought the main concern was about liquidity rather than falling value. 
They also said Brown Shipley had given Mr B options that would avoid him selling his 
investments so the decision to sell was of his own accord. 
Overall our Investigator didnt believe sending emails wouldve changed the loss Mr B 
incurred. Mr B disagreed with this saying Brown Shipley shouldve contacted him by 
telephone or email, and that he shouldve been told earlier about the margin call. Because 
an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr B that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service, and no discourtesy is 
intended. Also Brown Shipley and our Investigator both went into quite some detail about 
what happened. And since those facts arent really in dispute theres no need to repeat it all 
again here. 
I also think its important not to apply hindsight to a complaint like this. So when coming to a 
decision Ive placed more emphasis on evidence from the time.
Brown Shipley called Mr B on 10 March 2023 as they are required to do when the value of 
his investments fell by over 10%. During the call Mr B was told that hed also receive 
something in writing, but they wanted to talk to him as well. 
Brown Shipley explained the portfolio would move with the market and if they had to sell 
today there would be a loss of 15 to 16% over the year. Their view was there was nothing 
they would proactively sell as they thought this was going to be a relatively short impact and 
would bounce back quickly. Mr B said that he was in same place and there was no way he 
wanted to fire sell and that had the stock market been healthy he said he wouldve been 
looking to free up some cash. There were also discussions about getting cash by other 
methods such as selling property.  
Looking at what happened Im satisfied that it was the right decision for Brown Shipley to call 
Mr B and that they acted fairly and reasonably providing the advice which he agreed to at 
the time. 
In the time between the two telephone calls Brown Shipley say they sent several letters 
about further falls in value. Mr B doesnt seem to have received these letters and says that 
they shouldve called or emailed. Brown Shipley say they are satisfied that sending a letter 
was enough. Our Investigator thought they shouldve emailed instead of writing. 
Looking at what happened I think writing was enough and fulfilled their obligations, but I 
agree that emailing or calling wouldve provided better customer service. 
This brings us to what I think would most likely have happened if Brown Shipley had emailed 
or called. 
In the telephone call of 18 March 2020 Brown Shipley explained that the markets had 
continued to come down. This meant that the amount they said they would lend against the 
investments was now in negative territory and there was a margin call. There was a 
discussion that the overall value had come down about 30%. Their view was that they were 
at the bottom and the medium to long term view was very positive, but there were still short-
term concerns. 
There was a discussion about putting any money in and other options available. It was 
explained that if the investments were sold today there would be a loss. Brown Shipley said 
markets might recover quickly, but they also might not  they dont know. The advice was 
that in time it would get back, but it might be six-months, or it might be a year. Mr B said to 
look at taking some form of security like a property or a pension to avoid selling. Brown 
Shipley said they would follow up the conversation with an email about the security options 
that Mr B should respond to. 
Looking at this conversation Im satisfied Brown Shipley acted fairly and reasonably. In the 
call Mr B didnt seem to want, nor did he agree, to sell so the option of taking other security 
was discussed and agreed. The issue of liquidity was the main area of discussion and 
concern. What happened next was that after close of markets on the same day Mr B 
instructed Brown Shipley to sell as soon as possible, which is what happened. So Mr B took 
the decision to sell by himself which was not discussed during the call. Considering everything that happened, Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities 
that Mr B wouldve taken any different action had he been telephoned or emailed. In neither 
telephone call did Mr B say anything about selling, and in the second conversation the 
discussion was focussed on liquidity and the options available. It was the margin call rather 
than fall in value that was the main concern and Brown Shipley gave advice about the long-
term outlook. It seems the margin call was the main reason for selling so I cant say that 
previous drops in value (taken in isolation) wouldve resulted in a decision to sell even if 
Brown Shipley had contacted Mr B by phone or email. 
Mr B says that Brown Shipley shouldve contacted him earlier about the margin call. But 
looking at the terms of the agreement I dont think this is the case. The agreement says that 
Brown Shipley can make a margin call at their sole discretion and this is what they decided 
to do on 18 March 2020. Theres no requirement for a margin call just because the loan to 
pledge value exceeds 100%. So whilst this happened a few days before the telephone call, I 
dont think any errors were made by waiting to make that call. And as Ive explained above I 
think the margin call was the reason behind selling. 
There was also an issue with stale pricing that Mr B says meant the extent of any loss was 
under-stated. Brown Shipley have said this didnt affect any decisions made by the Credit 
Committee and their actions wouldve been the same as would the issuing of the notification 
errors.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Brown Shipley acted 
fairly and reasonably and arent the cause of any financial loss. Im not persuaded that 
emails or telephone calls wouldve changed the end result of the situation for Mr B. Thats 
not to say that Mr B hasnt been affected by what happened: he clearly has. But I dont think 
this is the fault of Shipley Brown.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman