DRN-3492128
The complaint
Mr C doesnt consider that the early repayment charge (ERC) that Clydesdale Bank Plc, 
trading as Yorkshire Bank, applied when he repaid his mortgage was fairly applied. This is 
because he wanted to move the interest rate product to which the ERC was attached to a 
mortgage on a new property, but Clydesdale refused to allow him to. In addition, Mr C has 
said that interest rates dropped after the interest rate product was attached to his mortgage 
and he believes that this meant the mortgage was profitable and Clydesdale wouldnt have 
suffered a loss due to the early repayment of the mortgage. 
In settlement of the complaint Mr C wants Clydesdale to refund the charge.
What happened
Mr C and his now ex-wife had an existing mortgage with Clydesdale and in the summer of 
2018 they attached an interest rate product to it. The product was due to expire at the end of 
November 2023. The offer they accepted detailed that an ERC was payable until the end of 
the product term. It started at 5% for the first two years and then decreased by 1% in each of 
the following years.
The offer went on to detail that if Mr and Mrs C wanted to move home, they might be able to 
port the interest rate product to a new mortgage. However, any application to do so would 
only be possible if it met all of Clydesdales lending criteria. 
In 2020 the mortgage property was being sold and Mr C looked into transferring the interest 
rate product to a new mortgage in his sole name on a different property. This would have 
avoided the ERC being payable. 
Clydesdales lending criteria set out that an applicant who owned more than 25% of a limited 
company they were a director of, would be considered self-employed. This meant that 
Clydesdale required three years-worth of accounts to exist and the limited companys 
accountant to provide confirmation of the applicants shareholding and the renumeration paid 
in the previous three years. Mr C didnt apply for a mortgage, presumably because he was 
unable to provide the evidence Clydesdale required.
The mortgage was paid off toward the end of 2020 and the ERC was applied. Mr C 
complained.
Clydesdale considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that it was never 
guaranteed that a mortgage application would be accepted, and they are subject to the 
lending criteria in place at the time of any application. It said it wasnt able to offer him a 
mortgage in 2020. As the mortgage the interest rate product was paid off, Clydesdale was 
satisfied that the ERC had been appropriately applied. 
When providing its file of papers relating to the complaint, Clydesdale stated that it believed 
Mr C had become self-employed in November 2018. Companies House records show that 
Mr Cs limited company was incorporated in January 2019.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that he remained of the view that 
Clydesdale acted unreasonably and unfairly in failing to accept a mortgage application from 
him. This is because it didnt take into account the long-term banking and mortgage 
relationship he had with it. He said that by refusing his application it didnt make a 
reasonable assessment of his ability to repay the new mortgage and the level of risk to the 
bank, nor did it consider his application against all its lending criteria. Mr C went on to say 
that considering him as self-employed was wrong and the absence of three years of 
accounts was no measurement of his ability to repay the proposed mortgage. He set out his 
view of how Clydesdale should have considered an application from him.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs further comments, but he didnt change his conclusions. 
He explained that it was a matter of a lenders commercial judgement to set its lending 
criteria and this wasnt something we would interfere with. It was also pointed out that it was 
quite standard for lenders to require a number of years of accounts for customers in Mr Cs 
situation. 
Mr C remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions. He said that the investigator 
was wrong in considering a request to port as a new mortgage application; rather it was a 
porting the existing arrangement under the terms of that mortgage. As such, he considered 
that Clydesdale didnt comply with the implied and explicit terms of the existing mortgage by 
preventing him from porting.  In response, our investigator clarified that the port was of the 
interest rate product, not the mortgage itself. As such, a new mortgage application had to be 
made and accepted for the product to be ported over.
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I would confirm in this case, is that the possibility of porting on the mortgage 
Mr C held with his ex-wife was not for the mortgage itself, but rather for the interest rate 
product attached to it. The option to port the product was never guaranteed and was always 
dependent on a new mortgage application, assessed under Clydesdales lending criteria at 
the time of application, being accepted. This is quite standard across the mortgage industry. 
This was made clear in the mortgage offer Mr C and his ex-wife accepted.
Each lender will decide what risks it is willing to take when deciding to grant borrowing to a 
customer. Thats something they are allowed to do and, as long as they apply their criteria 
consistently to customers, it isnt something we would interfere with. 
In addition, lenders are required by the regulator to lend responsibly. This means making an 
assessment of an applicants circumstances to determine whether the mortgage is 
affordable and is in the customers best interests. In order to do this, lenders will request 
information about, among other things, employment and income. 
I note that Mr C doesnt agree that he should have been assessed as self-employed and that 
it was unreasonable for Clydesdale to require him to have three years of accounts available 
to assess affordability. As I have said above, it is for a lender to determine what risks it is 
willing to accept and it has a right to ask for information to assess those risks. As our investigator pointed out, the requirement for customers who run their own businesses to 
evidence the sustainability of their income is quite standard across the mortgage industry.
I can understand Mr C being disappointed that this requirement meant that he was unable to 
apply for a new mortgage with Clydesdale. I can also understand why he would have liked 
the affordability assessment to be done differently, in order to have allowed him to make an 
application, but I cant find that Clydesdale was wrong to want to assess Mr Cs income as it 
did. 
Mr C believes the assessment of his ability to afford the mortgage should have taken into 
account his wider circumstances and his financial history with Clydesdale. Mr Cs financial 
history would have been taken into account if a full application had been made. However, a 
person having been able to afford a mortgage in the past when their circumstances and 
employment were very different, doesnt automatically mean that they would be able to 
afford a new mortgage going forward. So it was not unreasonable of Clydesdale to want to 
assess that altered situation.
Overall, I dont consider Clydesdale did anything wrong when it decided what information it 
required to assess whether an application fell within its lending criteria. In light of this, when 
Mr C and his ex-wife repaid their mortgage, it was not unreasonable or unfair for Clydesdale 
to charge the ERC that they had accepted as part of the mortgage they had entered into.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
12 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman