DRN-1215841
The complaint
Mrs W complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (SMF) misrepresented a 
car to her that she has been financing under a hire purchase agreement.
Shes been represented by her husband throughout this complaint but, for simplicity, and 
because Mrs W is named on the finance agreement, I will refer to Mrs W in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
If the car was misrepresented to Mrs W and if I was persuaded she would not have 
continued with the deal if it wasnt for that misrepresentation, then I would ask SMF to take 
some action.
Here, I am persuaded that there has been a misrepresentation and that Mrs W would have 
been unlikely to proceed if she had been told she was getting a different model of car.
SMF have suggested there is little evidence that Mrs W asked for a different model of car. 
They have explained that she received the model that was listed on the finance agreement 
and that her reason for rejecting the car was simply that she didnt like it. But I dont agree. 
There was a lot of correspondence between Mrs W, SMF and the dealership. Its clear that 
both SMF and the dealership acknowledged the error and that efforts were made to source 
the right car for Mrs W. SMF also suggested in a phone call that if they were unable to 
source the correct model they would look at rejecting the car and allowing Mrs W to 
terminate her finance agreement.
So, I think there is sufficient evidence here that Mrs W received a different car than the one 
she expected to receive, and I am not persuaded she would have proceeded with the deal if 
she knew that was going to be the case.
So SMF should have terminated the deal when it became clear that a suitable replacement 
could not be found.
Mrs W has subsequently had trouble repaying the debt. Shes fallen into arrears and the car 
has been repossessed and the finance agreement terminated. 
I dont think this would have been the case if SMF had allowed Mrs W to reject the car when 
they should have done.
Putting things right
To put things right Mrs W should be, as far as possible, put back in the position she would 
have been in if the misrepresentation hadnt taken place.
SMF should therefore show the agreement as settled and remove any adverse reports they 
may have made to Mrs Ws credit file in relation to this agreement.
They should take the car back and cancel the agreement although I understand theyve 
already done that.
They should waive the outstanding balance on the agreement but Im not asking them to 
refund any finance instalments that Mrs W paid as Mrs W had some use of the car and was 
in arrears on her payments.
I think its clear this issue should have been resolved earlier and Mrs W has therefore 
experienced distress and inconvenience because shes had to pursue her complaint through 
this service and because shes had to consult widely with both SMF and the dealership to try 
to obtain the model of car she had asked for. So, in those circumstances, I think SMF should 
also pay Mrs W some compensation and I think £150 would be about right.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mrs Ws 
complaint, STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED should:
terminate the agreement and waive the outstanding balance;pay Mrs W £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund Mrs Ws deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
remove any negative information they may have reported to Mrs Ws credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman