DRN-2574658
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that in 2012 Santander UK Plc incorrectly told them that they 
couldnt convert their mortgage from interest-only to capital repayment. Mr and Mrs L are 
also unhappy about a refund made to the mortgage by Santander in 2018, and about the 
amount of their monthly repayments. To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs L want Santander 
to admit it made a mistake and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a mortgage with Santander which they took out in 2004 on a capital 
repayment basis. In 2009 Mr and Mrs L unfortunately experienced financial difficulties and 
asked Santander to convert the mortgage onto an interest-only basis. Santander agreed to 
do this on 22 January 2009.
Santanders records show that the concession came to an end in July 2011. At this point 
repayments should have gone from £294 to £457 but after Santander discussed the situation 
with Mr and Mrs L but it became apparent that a switch back to capital repayment wouldnt 
be affordable because Mr L had become disabled and wasnt able to work.
At this point the mortgage had just over 17 years left on the term. In order to make the 
mortgage affordable, Santander agreed to extend the term to 27 years 10 months, which 
would make the capital and interest payment £367. Santander sent out paperwork for this 
which said that the term extension wouldnt be put in place until the signed documentation 
was returned. The documents werent returned, and the mortgage remained on interest-only.
In February 2012 Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage product came to an end. Santander wrote to 
them confirming the new monthly payment of £215.06 but there was no further contact from 
Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L say they telephoned Santander in 2012 and were told they could not move 
onto a repayment mortgage and would have to stay on interest-only. Santander has no 
record of this call.
In July 2014 Mrs L was made bankrupt. In 2015 her interest in the property was transferred 
to Mr L. The mortgage remained in their joint names.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs L received a letter from Santander reminding them of the importance of 
having a repayment vehicle for their interest-only mortgage. Mr and Mrs L contacted 
Santander, and on 18 July 2018 the bank agreed to put the mortgage back on capital and 
interest with a term ending on 25 September 2029. Santander also carried out a remediation 
exercise. 
The remediation resulted in Santander reducing the capital balance of the mortgage by 
£3,670.37. This was the difference between the balance of the mortgage on 18 August 2011 
and what the balance would have been if the mortgage had been moved back to capital and 
interest on 31 March 2013 and all payments had been made in full and on time. Santander 
said that, after that date, Mr and Mrs L would have known from their annual statements that 
their mortgage was still operating on an interest-only basis.
Santander also explained that, as the mortgage was going back onto capital and interest, the 
monthly repayment would be increasing to about £570 per month. Mr and Mrs L say this is 
unaffordable. Santander has confirmed that all payments have been made in full and on time 
since July 2018.
Mr and Mrs L complained to the Santander. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. But, 
confusingly, Santander offered Mr and Mrs L £500 compensation for not converting their 
account to capital repayment sooner. 
Santander later confirmed that both the offer of compensation and its admission it should 
have converted the mortgage to capital repayment at an earlier date were mistakes, but it 
agreed to allow Mr and Mrs L to keep the £500. Santander reiterated that it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in not converting the mortgage to capital repayment before 2018.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs L complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Initially Santander said it thought the complaint was time-barred under 
our rules. That issue was resolved by an ombudsmans decision on 26 September 2020 
when it was decided that we could consider the complaint.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She noted that, 
although Mr and Mrs L said theyd telephoned Santander in 2012 asking to be put back on 
capital repayment, there was no record of this in Santanders contact notes. In the 
circumstances, the investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong in not 
converting the mortgage to capital repayment in 2012.
The investigator thought the redress offered by Santander was fair. She was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs L would, or should, have been aware from their annual statements that the 
mortgage was still interest-only after 2012, and so capping the redress as at 31 March 2013 
was reasonable. The investigator also noted Santanders mistake in relation to the £500 
offered. She thought it was fair that Mr and Mrs L be allowed to keep this, even though it had 
been paid by mistake.
Finally the investigator explained to Mr and Mrs L that if they were having financial difficulties 
and were struggling to pay their mortgage, they should contact Santander to see what help 
could be offered.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators findings and on 18 January 2021 Mr L 
spoke to the investigator to make some further points. Mr L said that he couldnt believe 
Santander had no record of a call from 2012 when hed asked to be transferred from 
interest-only back to capital repayment. Mr L said that there was no need at that time for the 
mortgage to stay on interest-only as he was in better health at that time. When the 
investigator said that there was no record of any call logged in 2012, Mr L said that it might 
have been in 2013.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it now falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I confirm I agree with the ombudsmans jurisdiction decision in which he decided that 
this is a complaint we can consider and that it is not time-barred under our rules.
The crux of the complaint is whether Santander should have converted Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage back to capital repayment either in 2012 (when they initially said theyd spoke to 
Santander) or 2013 (which is when Mr L later told the investigator the call might have been 
made).
Mr and Mrs L had asked in 2011 to be switched to capital repayment and for a term 
extension. Santander agreed to this. Im satisfied this wasnt put in place because Mr and 
Mrs L didnt return the documents. From what theyve told us, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L 
knew this hadnt gone ahead in 2011. Thats because the crux of their complaint is that 
theyd asked Santander to switch them to capital repayment in 2012 (or possibly 2013) and 
that Santander had refused to do this.
Ive reviewed Santanders contact notes and there is no record at all of any calls between 
the bank and Mr and Mrs L either in 2012 or 2013. I think if there had been a call, it would 
have been recorded on Santanders system. I say this because Santander, like most banks, 
keeps an electronic record of customer contact. When a customer calls the bank (or if the 
bank calls the customer), the customer is asked a number of security questions. If these are 
answered correctly, the account details are retrieved from the system and the details of the 
call are noted. I think, given this, its unlikely that Santander would have no record of calls in 
2012 and 2013 if these had in fact been made.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs L were told by Santander in 2012 
or 2013 that they couldnt be switched back onto a capital repayment mortgage. 
It wasnt until Mr and Mrs L were prompted by Santander to think about their repayment 
strategy for the mortgage in 2018 that they raised the issue again. 
In June 2019 Santander incorrectly told Mr and Mrs L that they should have been switched 
back to capital repayment sooner, and that the matter would be escalated to another team. 
Mr and Mrs L were paid £500 compensation for and trouble and inconvenience theyd been 
caused. Santander later explained that this was a mistake, but it has allowed Mr and Mrs L 
to keep the £500.
The escalation resulted in Santander carrying out the remediation exercise and reducing the 
balance of the account as a gesture of goodwill. Santander wasnt obliged to do this, but it 
reworked the account as if the switch to capital repayment and term extension had, in fact, 
gone ahead in 2011. (As Ive noted above, it didnt go ahead because Mr and Mrs L didnt 
return the signed paperwork for this.)
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L knew, or ought to have known, by 31 March 2013 (by which time 
theyd have had both their 2011 and 2012 annual statements) that their mortgage was still 
on interest-only. Given this, I agree with the cut-off date Santander used for the remediation 
exercise, which is 31 March 2013. I think the offer to adjust the capital balance of the 
account by £3,670.37 is fair and reasonable and I dont think Santander is required to make 
any other adjustments to the account or pay any further compensation.
Mr and Mrs L have said that their monthly repayments now their mortgage is on a capital 
repayment basis are causing them financial difficulty. The account history doesnt show any 
arrears, but if Mr and Mrs L are having difficulty managing their mortgage payments, they should speak to Santander. There is also the option of free debt advice from StepChange, 
Citizens Advice or Shelter, and we can provide contact details for those agencies if Mr and 
Mrs L would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman