DRN-2911694
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr T complain they were misadvised by Clydesdale Bank Plc when they were 
porting their mortgages to new properties. 
What happened
Mrs M and Mr T had two mortgages with Clydesdale Bank Plc. They planned to sell the 
properties over which those mortgages were secured and buy two new properties. 
Mrs M and Mr T had fixed interest rate products on their existing mortgages and were 
subject to early repayment charges (ERCs) if they paid back any of their borrowing within the 
fixed rate period. Although they were reducing their borrowing and were subject to ERCs as 
a result, to avoid paying the full ERCs, they discussed porting their mortgages with 
Clydesdale. They say that was the only reason they were staying with Clydesdale, as they 
felt their interest rates were too high.
Mrs M and Mr T paid the ERCs before their new mortgages were set up. They expected 
refunds once their new mortgages had completed. But the refunds they got were less than 
they were expecting. Theyd understood the refunds would be calculated using the full 
amount they were borrowing and would take into account a 10% overpayment they were 
entitled to make under their existing mortgages. They wanted Clydesdale to reimburse the 
difference.
Mrs M and Mr T were unhappy the fixed interest rate products under the sub-accounts of 
their new mortgages ended at different times. That meant they would have to pay 
Clydesdales higher standard variable rate (SVR) on some of those sub-accounts, while they 
waited for the others to expire, before they could move their mortgages to another lender. 
Alternatively, theyd have to take out new products with Clydesdale whose rates they thought 
uncompetitive. They wanted Clydesdale to align the end dates of the interest rate products.
In response to their complaint, Clydesdale agreed to take account of the additional 
borrowing Mrs M and Mr T had taken out in recalculating the ERC refund they were entitled 
to. They offered to pay interest on the extra amount payable and compensation of £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered.
Clydesdale didnt agree theyd told Mrs M and Mr T the 10% overpayment allowance would 
be taken into account in calculating the ERC refunds. And they said the advice theyd given 
about interest rate products met Mrs M and Mr Ts requirements for the mortgages they 
wanted.
Mrs M and Mr T brought their complaint to this service as they werent happy with 
Clydesdales response. Our investigator felt Clydesdale had responded to their complaint 
fairly. Since Mrs M and Mr T didnt accept our investigators view, their complaints been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M and Mr T may not previously have seen all the documents Clydesdale 
provided to this service and have concerns about when they were produced. They form part 
of the evidence and its right for me to consider them in coming to my decision, taking into 
account what both parties say about them. And where the parties evidence conflicts, I will 
come to my decision based on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened 
bearing all the evidence in mind. 
Ill address each of Mrs M and Mr Ts concerns in turn:
ERC
ERCs were payable under the existing mortgages if all or part of the borrowing was paid 
back, or Mrs M and Mr T switched to a new Clydesdale product, within the period of the fixed 
interest rate products.
Subject to certain conditions, the mortgage  or more accurately, the interest rate products - 
could be transferred, or ported, to other properties during the fixed interest rate period 
without paying some or all of the ERC. Mrs M and Mr T had to pay the ERC initially, and, 
once the new mortgages had completed, they were entitled to a refund. The ERC was 
calculated as a proportion of the outstanding loan depending on when the porting took place. 
The ERC would still have to be paid on any amount of the mortgage that was repaid. And 
new borrowing wasnt taken into account in calculating the amount of the ERC or any refund. 
Clydesdale acknowledged they hadnt made it clear that not all the borrowing on Mrs M and 
Mr Ts new properties would be treated as having been ported. To put things right, 
Clydesdale apologised and agreed to increase the refund by including all the borrowing in 
the refund calculation. They arranged for the additional amount to be paid to them with 
interest. And they offered them £150 for the distress and inconvenience that had been 
caused to Mrs M and Mr T. 
Im not aware of Mrs M and Mr T disputing Clydesdales figures. If they have any concerns 
about the calculations, they can discuss them with Clydesdale. But from what Ive seen, they 
seem to have been approached in the right way. And, overall, I think Clydesdales proposals 
to resolve this part of Mrs M and Mr Ts complaint are fair and reasonable as they directly 
address their concerns and fairly recognise the impact on Mrs M and Mr T.
10% overpayment
The existing mortgages allowed Mrs M and Mr T to make overpayments to reduce their 
outstanding mortgage balances during the fixed interest rate periods. To avoid paying an 
ERC, any such overpayment had to be limited to 10% of the outstanding mortgage. 
Mrs M and Mr T say the Clydesdale adviser told each of them on separate occasions that 
they would take account of the 10% overpayment allowance in calculating the ERCs and it 
wasnt necessary for them to make the 10% payment at the time. They would otherwise 
have paid 10% off their mortgages before they were repaid as they had the funds available 
to do so. Mrs M and Mr T say the adviser offered this to them as a feature of porting the 
mortgage, and it then formed part of their decision-making process, but they hadnt been 
aware of it previously. The advisers recollection is she didnt discuss this with Mrs M and   
Mr T and wouldnt have given them this advice.I acknowledge Mrs M and Mr Ts strength of feeling about this issue and their understanding 
of what the adviser told them. Unfortunately, there are no recordings of the conversations 
between Mrs M and Mr T and Clydesdale and I havent seen the discussions mentioned in 
Clydesdales records. Having considered the evidence that is available, on balance, I think 
its unlikely the adviser would have said Clydesdale would take account of an overpayment 
that hadnt been made before the existing mortgages had been paid off. 
I think the mortgage offers relating to the existing mortgages were clear about how the 
overpayments worked. They didnt mention it was possible to make an overpayment after 
the mortgages had been paid back. And I dont think the adviser would have given advice 
that contradicted the terms of the mortgage. 
From the fact find documentation and what Mrs M and Mr T have said, I think one of their 
key motivations for remaining with Clydesdale was to avoid paying full ERCs. But Im not 
persuaded Mrs M and Mr Ts decision to go ahead with the new mortgages turned on 
whether the ERC calculations would take account of the 10% overpayment allowance. They 
say they werent aware it was a possibility before speaking to the adviser. So, whilst it will 
have been disappointing to find the ERC refunds hadnt factored in the 10%, I dont think 
their decision to accept Clydesdales recommendations would have been different if theyd 
understood theyd need to make overpayments before the mortgages were paid off for them 
to be factored into the ERC calculations.
Since Mrs M and Mr T didnt make overpayments, theyve continued to have the use of the 
funds they would have used. So, any financial impact on them of not making the payment 
has been mitigated in any event. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think its fair to ask Clydesdale to adjust the ERC refunds 
to take account of the 10% overpayment allowance.
End dates of fixed term interest rate products
Mrs M and Mr T say they werent aware, until they contacted their broker to discuss re-
mortgaging, that they couldnt switch their borrowing on those parts of their mortgages where 
the fixed interest rate products had expired. Theyre unhappy theyre either tied in to 
Clydesdale paying the SVR until the remaining fixed interest rate products expire or have to 
pay ERCs to re-mortgage with another lender.
Mr T says hes always had a two-year fixed deal and used a mortgage broker to get him a 
competitive fixed rate, typically with another lender, when the deal is about to expire. He 
argues if Clydesdale had properly assessed their requirements, they wouldnt have 
recommended mortgages arranged in the way they were. Hes questioned why Clydesdale 
couldnt arrange things so all of the borrowing had rates that ended at the same time. 
Since Mrs M and Mr T were taking new borrowing, its fair Clydesdale offered them fixed 
interest rate products that were available at the time they made their application for that part 
of the loans. Clydesdale say the shortest fixed rate they could offer was two years, which is 
in line with what other lenders offer  and Mrs M and Mr Ts preference. I wouldnt expect 
Clydesdale to have applied the interest rate products on the existing loans to the new 
borrowing. Decisions about what interest rates to offer at different times are commercial 
decisions for Clydesdale to make.
Mrs M and Mr Ts current complaint didnt raise questions about how decisions on repaying 
and transferring existing borrowing and taking new borrowing were reached, which I 
understand may be their concern, so I dont consider them here.Im aware Mrs M and Mr T have questioned the validity of Clydesdales fact find records, but 
Ive no reason to doubt theyre a fair reflection of the discussions they had with the adviser. 
And I think Clydesdale made it sufficiently clear to Mrs M and Mr T how their mortgages 
would operate. In particular, the records show: 
The adviser told Mrs M and Mr T that although, ideally, they wanted the fixed interest 
rate products to end at around the same time, Clydesdale couldnt make the end 
dates match exactly and there might be a period when they went onto Clydesdales 
SVR before they could review the rate for the new borrowing
 
Mrs M and Mr T were happy to go ahead on that basis 
They werent concerned about interest rates rising after the fixed rate periods ended 
as they had enough surplus income to make the higher payments and didnt want to 
tie themselves in for more than two years
A letter Clydesdale sent confirming their recommendations in relation to one of the 
properties made clear the mortgage would be in three parts and set out the end dates of the 
three separate products.
Im satisfied key objectives for Mrs M and Mr T in arranging new mortgages with Clydesdale 
were to avoid paying ERCs in full and to access the shortest possible fixed interest rate 
terms, as they usually did, so they could review their mortgage arrangements regularly. I 
think Clydesdales recommendations met those requirements and Clydesdale made it 
sufficiently clear to Mrs M and Mr T how the fixed rates would work.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mrs M and Mr T, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman