DRN-3932916
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from ReAssure Limited concerning 
the administration of his personal pension.
What happened
Mr B has been a member of a group personal pension since about 1997. He indicated on 
the application form when he first took out the pension (and as allowed within its terms) 
that he intended to make contributions as a percentage of his income, rather than for fixed 
amounts. The plan was previously administered by another provider (who Ill refer to as L), 
but as part of a large-scale transfer, it was moved to ReAssure.
Around October 2020, ReAssure said that Mr B needed to pay fixed contributions, rather 
than the variable amounts hed stipulated, owing to how its system works. Thats despite 
the fact that his contributions are based on a percentage of his income, and his income 
regularly fluctuates due to overtime payments. ReAssure suggested it might need to 
process the additional amounts as single contributions each month (rather than as part of 
a larger contribution). It said something similar in November 2020.
In February 2021, Mr B asked ReAssure to send him a list of all premiums received to 
date and whether it could confirm each time a new payment was received. Otherwise it 
was difficult for him to tell what contributions had been received since his pension had 
been taken over. Later that month, ReAssure confirmed some of the payments it had 
processed.
Mr B got in touch with ReAssure in May and September 2021 to ask if he could have 
access to its online portal to help him oversee his account.
In October 2021 Mr B called ReAssure again as he was unhappy that a letter hed 
received relating to his premium history only included payments up to December 2020. 
He said he wanted to see something showing the premiums made together with the 
corresponding plan value at the time the premiums were applied.
Mr B complained to our Service. As ReAssure hadnt at that point looked into the 
complaint, we referred it on to ReAssure to investigate. ReAssure then responded and 
acknowledged there had been a delay in giving Mr B the online access he was expecting. 
In light of the inconvenience caused, it offered Mr B £150 compensation. It later sent him 
a list of the contributions hed made.
Mr B wasnt happy with ReAssures response and again asked us to look into his 
complaint. He explained that he still didnt have online access and ReAssure had ignored 
the fact that his pension had been moved to its administration without him being given 
any choice in the matter.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and asked ReAssure for more 
information. It confirmed that as its administering Mr Bs policy manually (due to the 
fluctuating contributions), portal access couldnt be given to Mr B. It said that would remain 
the position until such time as issues to do with the premiums were resolved, but those 
issues were ongoing.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. Amongst his comments the investigator said:
ReAssure had provided a poor service to Mr B - he hadnt been able to 
view his pension policy online as he wanted to and ReAssure delayed in 
giving him a full breakdown of the contributions made.
To recognise the impact of those issues, the investigator recommended that 
ReAssure pay Mr B a further £300 compensation on top of the £150 already 
offered.
He also recommended that ReAssure give Mr B access to his online account, 
whilst pointing out to Mr B that transferring his pension to another provider was 
an option that remained available to him.
ReAssure accepted the investigators view, but Mr B didnt. He said he was far from 
happy as he still didnt have access to his online account. He later suggested that, having 
checked with a financial adviser, in order to get advice and switch his pension to another 
provider that would give him access to an online account, it would cost up to 3% of his 
pension fund value. However, Mr B indicated hed be willing to accept about half of this 
value (around £3,450) from ReAssure in order to be able to switch his pension and move 
on. The investigator put Mr Bs proposal to ReAssure. ReAssure didnt respond to the 
proposal, but it did say that it couldnt give a timeframe within which online access would 
be granted to Mr B. As agreement couldnt be reached, the matters been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr B and ReAssure my provisional decision on 10 January 2023. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below:
Its clear that things havent been plain sailing since Mr Bs pension policy was 
transferred between providers. So, I can appreciate his strength of feeling especially when 
he was happy with the way his previous provider administered his pension and the 
transfer wasnt of his own making.
As a result of the problems hes experienced, Mr B now says he wants to move his 
policy away from ReAssure to another provider. And hes put forward a proposal to 
ReAssure to meet some of the costs associated with him taking financial advice with a 
view to transferring.
ReAssure accepts that its delayed in giving Mr B access to an online portal. And whilst it 
doesnt appear to have responded to Mr Bs proposal about meeting some of the costs if 
he were to take professional advice and transfer his pension, it had already offered him 
£150 compensation in respect of any inconvenience caused. It also confirmed that 
theres no penalty for Mr B to transfer his pension away from ReAssure if he wants to.
Ive thought carefully about both positions. And for the reasons that Ill go on to explain, 
Im not persuaded that ReAssures explanations and actions currently go far enough. Ill 
explain why.
ReAssure suggested that Mr B would have to make fixed contributions to his pension 
owing to the way our system works. So, rather than Mr B being able to vary his pension 
contributions in line with any changes in his earnings (and as he indicated he would do 
when he first took out the plan with L), ReAssure suggested it could only process his 
contributions automatically if the amounts paid were fixed.
I dont think Mr Bs situation is unique as its extremely common for pension contributions 
to fluctuate as employees receive payments such as overtime, bonus, and commission. 
Yet, ReAssure responded along the lines that if Mr Bs pension contributions were for 
anything other than fixed amounts, its system wasnt able to cope and it would have to apply these as single contributions each month rather than as part of a bigger overall 
contribution. Not only was it not what Mr B wanted, but it appears to have caused other 
issues and delays, such as contribution breakdowns not including everything that had 
been paid in. And I can understand why Mr B would be concerned by that.
But its clear that the issue runs deeper than that. From what ReAssure has said, its the 
very fact that its having to carry out manual administration thats preventing Mr B from 
having online access to his account. In other words, if it wasnt for the limitations of 
ReAssures systems, its likely that Mr Bs pension could be administered automatically 
and hed be able to access his account online in the way he wants in order to stay abreast 
of whats happening on it.
I accept that ReAssure has indicated in response to a question from this Service, that 
Mr B can call, email or write to it in the meantime to ask to view or make changes to his 
account. And in other circumstances, I might have said thats a sensible interim solution. 
But I need to keep in mind that this problem has already been ongoing for some time with 
little prospect of a resolution in sight. And ReAssure itself has accepted that the demand 
on its service has sometimes led to increased waiting times to deal with customer 
requests. So, it seems entirely likely that even if Mr B did contact ReAssure in one of the 
ways suggested, hed still probably have to wait to receive confirmation about his account. 
And that may well heighten any concern hes already experiencing.
Also, this isnt a situation where Mr B opted for ReAssure to administer his pension and 
problems then materialised. It was a decision that was effectively made for him despite 
the fact that he was happy with his previous provider. And ReAssures systems are 
evidently not able to manage Mr Bs pension in the way thats needed meaning that, in 
turn, he cant be given the online access hes looking for. Im not persuaded thats a 
responsibility that Mr B should bear.
I also accept from what ReAssure has said that theres no penalty for Mr B to transfer his 
pension away from its administration. But I also need to keep in mind that its highly 
unlikely Mr B would be looking to do that if it wasnt for the problems hes experienced  
and continues to experience  with ReAssures handling of his pension and the 
limitations of its system.
Ultimately, Mr B had taken out a pension which met his needs. But he was subject to a 
transfer to a new provider that has a system, which doesnt currently meet his needs. And 
in those circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable that Mr B would want to obtain 
professional advice about the type of alternative pension and provider that might be 
suitable for him. But I also have to acknowledge that any advice Mr B seeks will likely 
come at a cost.
Taking all of these factors together, Im intending to say that a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this specific complaint is that ReAssure Limited agrees to meet half of the 
costs associated with Mr B taking advice to switch his pension (subject to him providing 
the necessary invoice once the advice process and transfer is complete). Thats unless 
ReAssure Limited can give Mr B a guarantee that it can offer him online portal access 
imminently  despite a variable contribution level  and at least by the response date for 
my provisional decision.
On top of that, this matter has clearly been a source of prolonged frustration and 
inconvenience for Mr B. So, Im also intending to say that ReAssure Limited should pay 
him the additional £300 compensation that our investigator previously recommended and 
which ReAssure Limited subsequently agreed to pay (making £450 in total). If Mr B still 
hasnt cashed the previous cheque for £150, ReAssure Limited should cancel it and issue 
another cheque for the full amount of compensation.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr B said he had no further comments to make and would happily accept the decision 
assuming it remained unchanged. 
ReAssure gave the following responses:
It agreed to pay the £450 compensation I said I was intending to award.
There was still no guarantee its system would allow the functionality to make 
flexible payments. So, ReAssure agreed to cover some of the advice costs that 
Mr B would incur if he were to take advice and switch his pension to another 
provider. But, it said that was subject to the following conditions:
oAs the new financial advisers service will be for the benefit of Mr B (as a 
result of a signed contract between them) and wont be a service given to 
ReAssure, it shouldnt have to reimburse any VAT charged to Mr B.
oIt wouldnt agree to pay the advisers full hourly rate (it said this is normal 
practice for the industry), but it will consider paying a maximum of a third 
of the hourly rate capped at £100 per hour.
oWhilst accepting that the advice process would take a certain amount of 
time and effort, it wouldnt expect to pay compensation for all of the time 
spent on the case.
oIt would make any contribution to the financial advisers fees in the name 
of the registered company that the adviser works for.  
oThe breakdown/invoice must detail the time spent over and above what 
would be usual for dealing with such a transaction. It would require a full 
and detailed breakdown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted the conditions which ReAssure wishes to impose before it agrees to 
meet some of the costs that Mr B is going to incur. But I dont find those to be fair. So, 
Im not intending to significantly change what I said in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why.
First, it may or may not be standard industry practice to cap costs at £100 an hour. But, 
whilst I will take into account standard industry practice, I need to decide a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the specifics of this case. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, Mr Bs plan was transferred to ReAssure without him having any say in the 
matter. Since being transferred he hasnt been able to manage his plan in the way that 
he wanted, despite him making it clear when he first took it out that he intended to make 
payments on a flexible basis. And its only because of the limitations of ReAssures 
systems that hes now thinking about switching. So, as I said in my provisional decision, 
its reasonable that ReAssure meets some of the costs associated with that  even if 
those costs exceed a cap of £100 an hour. I remain of that view.
I also note ReAssures position that it wouldnt expect to pay compensation for all of the 
time spent on the case and its suggested limiting the amounts it would pay to one third 
of the full costs. My proposed award isnt intended to suggest that ReAssure should 
meet the full costs. I recognise that Mr B does have the option of remaining with 
ReAssure and there is a potential that he will benefit financially from any additional 
financial advice in the long run. But, hes only in the position where he needs to seek 
financial advice because of the limitations of ReAssures system. My award to put things 
right is intended to ensure that ReAssure meets some of the costs that Mr B will now 
incur through no fault of his own, whilst recognising the contribution that Mr B is willing to make. I remain of the view that Mr Bs offer is a reasonable one and as such I think its 
reasonable that ReAssure meets half of those costs up to a total of £3,450 which Mr B 
said he was happy to accept. 
Similarly, ReAssure has said that it wont cover the costs of any VAT as the service is for 
Mr Bs benefit and not its own. Theres certainly no dispute about who will likely benefit 
from the financial advice. But Mr B would only incur a VAT liability (if applicable) because 
hes having to think about taking advice as a result of ReAssures own system 
limitations. So, I think its reasonable that it covers half of the total that might become 
payable (whether this includes VAT or not), as long as the total sum payable doesnt 
exceed £3,450.
Ill also say here that its not unusual for the costs associated with pension switching 
advice to be calculated based on a fixed percentage of the fund value, rather than an 
hourly rate. Mr Bs indicated that the costs might be up to 3% of the overall fund value. 
That doesnt seem wholly excessive especially when Mr B is willing to pay half. 
So, having taken account of the additional comments Ive received, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited should now take the steps Ive set out below to 
put things right. 
Putting things right
Pay Mr B compensation of £450 in total for the frustration and inconvenience hes 
suffered. If Mr B hasnt yet cashed the previous cheque that Reassure sent him for 
£150, it should cancel it and issue another for £450. If it has been cashed, it should 
pay him the additional £300.
On the condition that Mr B provides an itemised invoice from his financial adviser, 
ReAssure should meet half of the costs associated with the advice, up to a maximum 
of £3,450 (inclusive). ReAssure should settle this payment within 28 days of Mr B 
submitting an invoice and breakdown of costs.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure Limited to carry out the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman