DRN-2359406
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has declined a claim for 
accidental damage to his sofas.
What happened
Mr R made a claim under his upholstery protection policy in February 2020. On the claim 
form he stated he was claiming for tears caused by his youngest child ripping his leather 
sofas. 
Amtrust sent a technician out to Mr Rs home in March 2020 to inspect the damage. The 
technician took photographs and submitted a report to Amtrust, on the basis of which, 
Amtrust declined the claim. It referred Mr R to the section of his policy which says products 
arent covered for damage caused by pets or any gradually occurring damage which does 
not occur as a single incident.
Mr R disagreed with Amtrust, saying the damage hadnt been caused by a pet and that it 
was caused by his children who had Autism. He raised a complaint with Amtrust. Amtrust 
investigated Mr Rs concerns and confirmed that it felt the claim had been declined correctly.
Unhappy with Amtrusts response, Mr R referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered all the information provided and didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said he was persuaded by the technicians report which confirmed that the 
technician believed the cause of the damage to be a pet chewing on the leather. Mr R 
disagreed with our investigator and so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs upholstery protection plan. These define 
accidental damage as sudden and unintentional damage and specify that Damage caused 
by pets biting or chewing the item isnt covered.
Ive then considered what Mr R has said about the cause of the damage, alongside the 
photographs and submissions in the technicians report. Mr R says his youngest child who 
has Autism caused the rips in the sofas. Hes said these started off as small holes using a 
fork and knife and gradually got bigger as the children pulled the stuffing out of the sofas. 
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly about this and has said he would be happy to get an 
independent upholsterer to look at his suites. However, the only report I have is the one from 
the technician Amtrust sent out in March 2020. And looking at this, Im persuaded by the 
technicians comments about the holes in the sofas being consistent with damage caused by 
a pet chewing the leather. 
I say this because, from looking at the photographs, there are several marks surrounding the 
holes which look more likely to be from a pet chewing than from a knife and fork. I dont think 
the marks look consistent with cutlery use. And the location of each hole makes me think its 
more likely a pet chewed on the sofa in those areas, because the marks are around the 
edges of the cushions where I think it likely a dog could grip the leather quite easily with its 
teeth. I dont think its likely a child would cut around the edges of a sofa and not, for 
example, cause damage with a knife and fork in the centre of the cushions. And theres no 
corresponding damage to the centre of the cushions. So Im persuaded more by the 
technicians report than by what Mr R has said. 
Mr R has also queried why another instance of similar damage which was caused by his 
children was covered. Amtrust has explained that the other incident of damage fell within the 
terms of the policy. This means Amtrust was confident on that occasion that the damage 
was consistent with what Mr R had said and that there was no relevant exclusion in the 
policy that meant it wouldnt be covered. My role is to look at how Amtrust has handled this 
claim, not previous claims. And Im satisfied, based on everything Ive seen, and for the 
reasons Ive explained, that Amtrust hasnt declined the claim unreasonably.
It follows, therefore, that I wont be asking Amtrust to do anything further in relation to Mr Rs 
claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman