DRN-2755173
The complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide Building Society has again changed his personal details 
(specifically his post code), without his knowledge potentially putting him in danger of fraud 
or exploitation if any letters were posted to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr I has an address which shares the same first line with several other addresses. 
Unfortunately, when Mr I opened a new account, Nationwides systems pulled the postcode 
for an address with the same first line, but which wasnt Mr Is address. This wasnt the first 
time this had happened to Mr I. This happened to him the year before and on that occasion, 
Nationwide sent sensitive information to the wrong address. On that occasion it paid him 
£250 compensation.
Mr I, concerned with the repeat of the previous error, complained again to Nationwide. 
Nationwides letter explained that it was upholding his complaint and that it had corrected his 
address. It explained the error occurred as a result of an on-going fault with its system which 
it did not know when it would be able to fix. In recognition of the upset caused, it 
compensated him £150. But it said that: if you were to open another account in future 
please let our team know so we can ensure the postcode is correct for you. We would not 
look to compensate each time for the fault as you are now aware of this. Unfortunately, the 
complaint handler put the wrong postcode on the letter although, as it was sent by email 
only, it didnt go to the wrong address.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt that when Nationwide 
became aware of the error on Mr Is account it fixed this immediately. She couldnt see any 
evidence that anything was sent to the wrong address this time. She appreciated that Mr I 
was frustrated and worried by the error but felt that the compensation awarded was fair 
given nothing appeared to have been sent to the wrong address.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators view and wanted an ombudsmans decision given that 
the glitch in Nationwides system is on-going.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Is frustration and concern. I think the compensation of £150 is fair in 
the circumstances of this error given that there is no evidence that mail was sent to the 
wrong address. 
Nationwide has explained to him why the problem has occurred and explained that if he 
opens a new account then he should let it know so it can check the postcode is set up 
correctly. I think this is reasonable and I think this should mean that Mr I doesnt need to 
worry about this happening again to him. I do, however, want to make it clear that if the error 
does happen again then Mr I can still complain to Nationwide and if he is unhappy with its 
response he can come to this service.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman