DRN-2814286
The complaint
Mr L complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
Bamboo approved Mr L for two loans; one of which it agreed to refund on. So, this decision 
just covers the remaining loan in dispute. 
Mr L is represented by a claims management company, but for ease of reference Ill refer to 
all submissions as if they were made directly by him. 
What happened
Bamboo approved Mr L for a £2,000 loan in February 2018. The term of the loan was 18 
months, with repayments of approximately £165.
Mr L says Bamboo did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before the loan 
was approved. He says further checks wouldve shown the loan was always unaffordable to 
him. Mr L says he has lost out financially as a result of Bamboos actions, as he has had to 
pay additional interest and charges. This loan was settled by the second loan which Bamboo 
has since agreed to settle on.
Bamboo did not accept Mr Ls complaint in relation to this loan. It says it completed 
proportionate checks; and made a fair decision to lend to him.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld. In reaching their conclusion 
they argued:
Bamboo didnt complete proportionate checks. She felt the checks which Bamboo 
had completed oughtve led it to conducting further checks. This was because Mr Ls 
credit file showed he had a large number of active credit accounts; including one 
short term loan which had been taken out very recently. Our investigator felt this 
placed some of the information Bamboo had on Mr Ls affordability assessment in 
doubt; and shouldve led to further checks;
That further checks wouldve shown the loan was always likely unaffordable to Mr L. 
This was because bank statements which Mr L provided demonstrated that his 
outgoings were higher than he had declared; and in particular that he was spending a 
substantial amount of his income on online gambling websites.
Bamboo disagreed with this assessment. It maintained that it completed proportionate 
checks; and the information gathered from these checks did not demonstrate Mr L was in 
financial difficulties. It maintained the information it had, demonstrated that the loan was 
likely affordable to Mr L. Therefore, its decision to lend was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr L. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time Bamboo lent required it to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ls ability to afford the loan 
and repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Bamboo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably. Sustainably in this instance means making payments without incurring 
financial difficulties such as having to borrow further or failing to meet other financial 
commitments in order to meet this repayment. 
In this instance Bamboo completed an income and expenditure assessment on Mr L; and 
checked his credit file. It used a third-party verification tool to gauge whether Mr Ls self-
declared income was within a reasonable range; and used national average statistics to help 
inform Mr Ls likely outgoings. Bamboo says these checks enabled it to get a good 
understanding of Mr Ls finances, including his major outgoings and existing credit 
commitments. It therefore says the checks were proportionate.
Ive considered what Bamboo has said about the proportionality of its checks, and in this 
instance, I disagree with it. 
The affordability assessment which Bamboo completed demonstrated that Mr L had an 
income of approximately £1,750 per month, and expenses of roughly £860 per month. This 
left him with a declared disposable income of around £880 per month.
However, the credit file search which was also completed placed some doubt on this. This 
showed that Mr L had very recently taken out an advance against income and had a large 
number of active credit accounts. This existing credit was made up of various products 
including credit cards and store cards. The minimum payments, and regular schedule 
payments for these products combined was significantly higher than the expenses that had 
been used in Mr Ls affordability assessment. In addition to this, the credit report 
demonstrated that Mr L was exceeding one of his current account overdraft limits and was 
very close to reaching his credit limits on some of his credit cards and other overdrafts.
This information combined placed considerable doubt on the accuracy of the affordability 
assessment that Bamboo completed; and in particular whether Mr L likely had the 
disposable income that Bamboo was relying on. Considering this information, Im satisfied 
that Bamboo oughtve completed further checks to verify the information it had been 
provided. As it didnt do this, Im satisfied that it did not complete proportionate checks in this 
instance.
As Bamboo didnt complete proportionate checks; I have to consider whether further checks 
wouldve likely shown if the loan was affordable for him. Mr L has provided our service with 
copies of his bank statements for the period leading up to the loan application. In the absence of other evidence, Ive used this information to help me decide what I think further 
checks wouldve likely shown.
The bank statements show that Mr Ls finances were not in line with the figures listed in his 
affordability assessment. In particular from looking through these statements, it is clear Mr L 
is using other forms of high cost credit to supplement his income. Without these incoming 
forms of credit, it is very likely Mr L would be running a negative balance. The statements 
also show that Mr Ls outgoings are higher than those used in the affordability assessment, 
in part because of the higher number of unsecured loans being used, but also because there 
are a large number of transactions being completed to online gambling websites. 
When looking through these statements it is clear Mr L does not have the level of disposable 
income which had been listed, and when factoring in all of his outgoings (including the 
likelihood of continued transactions to online gambling websites); Im satisfied it is more 
likely than not, that Mr L did not have sufficient income to meet the repayments for this loan 
sustainably. And Im satisfied that Bamboo completed proportionate checks in this instance it 
oughtve come to the same conclusion. As it didnt do this, Im satisfied it acted unfairly in 
providing this loan to Mr L.
Putting things right
Mr L has lost out financially as a result of Bamboos actions, as he has had to pay out 
additional interest and charges. As such Bamboo needs to put things right. I therefore 
require Bamboo Loans Limited to:
Refund any interest and charges which Mr L paid as a result of this loan;
Pay Mr L 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information on his credit file in relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo Loans Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Bamboo Loans Limited must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has 
taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bamboo Loans Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman