DRN-2882021
The complaint
Mr D has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
in relation to a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) that he held with his 
former employer. Portal processed the transfer of Mr Ds OPS benefits on an insistent client 
basis to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP.) The funds within the SIPP were then 
used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
What happened
Mr D was introduced to Portal in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business,
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice.
Portal gathered information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives and carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately adventurous. It 
also completed a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. Portal conducted a telephone 
review with Mr D on 20 February 2015, following which it sent him a letter explaining it 
wouldnt be able to recommend he transfer his OPS benefits because the critical yield (the 
growth rate required to match his OPS benefits) was too high at 23.6%. However, Portal said 
it could still help Mr D if he wanted to go ahead and asked him to return the enclosed 
insistent client form.
Mr D returned the insistent client form on 3 March 2015. This asked him to confirm that he 
acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve a growth rate of 23.6% and that he 
was giving up guaranteed benefits. 
 
Portal sent a suitability report setting out its advice to Mr D. The covering letter was dated 
12 March 2015, although the report was dated 17 March 2015. The report said Mr D was 62
years old, employed and earning approximately £35,000 a year. It noted Mr D was married, 
with non-dependant children and owned his own home, an investment property worth 
£80,000 and land worth £100,000. Mr D had disposable income of £1,185 per month, 
savings of around £7,000 and another pension with his current employer  it said he had no 
liabilities.
Regarding Mr Ds OPS, the report recorded it had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)
of £35,224.55 and a scheme retirement age of 65. According to the suitability report, at 65 
the scheme would pay a pension of £2,056 per year without taking any tax-free cash (TFC). 
But the pension would be £1,321 if TFC of £8,806 was taken.
The report stated Mr Ds stated objective was to release cash from his pension to help his 
daughter purchase a property. Portal noted that it explored with Mr D other ways to generate 
the money required to meet his objective, but said that Mr D didnt have any other assets he 
could use and didnt want to take out any borrowing.
It then said:
Due to the guaranteed benefits that you will be relinquishing with [Mr Ds OPS], it is against 
my recommendation to transfer your benefits You have decided that you still wish to 
proceed with the Pension Release. On this basis, although we can help you release money 
from your pension, we are treating you as an insistent client.
You are aware that by taking this amount now, you will not have a guaranteed pension 
benefit, which you do currently have through your defined benefit (otherwise known as final 
salary) pension scheme. You stated that you are aware of the benefits that you are giving 
up, and that you wish to proceed on this basis, even though I have advised that it is 
extremely unlikely that we will be able to match the required annual return (the critical yield 
of 23.60%).
Portal went on to explain this again in a section entitled Our recommendations, saying:
You have decided that you still wish to proceed with Pension Release despite us advising 
you not to. We will assist you with this, and have treated you as an Insistent Client.
Having considered all of the information available to us including the charging structures of 
the transfers, available underlying fund choice, your personal circumstances and other 
factors, I have come to the following conclusions:
My recommendation is that:
You transfer your [OPS benefits] to a [SIPP].
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the benefits 
available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the benefits that 
would have been available through your existing provider.
By following this recommendation you will:
Meet your stated objectives and release tax free cash to help your daughter 
purchase a property.
Be able to take up to 25% of your pension as a Tax Free Cash Lump Sum to meet 
your needs; you have elected to take £8,806.
Portal said that it wasnt providing advice regarding the investments within the SIPP as this 
was to be done by Firm C.
The transfer went ahead in April 2015 and £36,924.67 was transferred to the SIPP cash 
account. Mr D took £9,186.51 as TFC and in May 2015 Firm C invested £13,000 in UCIS as 
follows:
Brisa Investments  £2,100
Biomass Investments  £2,100
Lakeview UK Invest  £2,100
Motion Picture Global  £2,300
Strategic Residential  £2,300
Real Estate Invest  £2,100
A small amount was left as cash and the remainder, around £11,600 was allocated to 
regulated investment funds.In 2019 Mr D complained, via a representative, to Portal about the advice he received to 
transfer. Mr D said Portal should also be liable for the investment advice because investing 
in UCIS was unsuitable for him.
Mr D also submitted a claim to the FSCS about Firm S regarding the UCIS investments
made using his SIPP funds. But Mr D told us the FSCS rejected his claim.
Portal considered Mr Ds complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice. It 
said it had only given advice in respect of the transfer of Mr Ds OPS benefits and it had 
advised Mr D against this. However, it said it assisted Mr D by processing the transfer on an 
insistent client basis, and Mr D understood the guarantees hed be giving up. Portal said it 
hadnt provided specific investment advice as this had been provided by Firm C  it said 
there were no regulations that prevented one firm from advising on the pension transfer and 
another firm giving investment advice. As Firm C was regulated by the FCA, Portal said it 
was entitled to rely on it to provide the investment advice. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the matter and 
concluded that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Portals advice was 
suitable. In summary, she didnt think Portal had explored Mr Ds objectives fully  it didnt 
know how much Mr D required to help with his daughters house purchase and it didnt 
properly explore alternatives, such as whether Mr D couldve released cash from his other 
pension. The investigator also didnt think that Portal could restrict the advice it gave Mr D to 
just the pension transfer  she thought it needed to consider the suitability of the investments 
Firm C was intending for Mr D, and she thought that investing over 50% of his remaining 
funds in UCIS wasnt suitable. Overall, she didnt think Mr D was able to make an informed 
choice to proceed as an insistent client, based on the advice Portal gave him.
The investigator also didnt think Portals insistent client process was fair as it directed Mr D 
down this route before it had even provided its advice. The investigator recommended that 
Mr D should be put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice 
and that Portal should pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. The 
investigator thought Portal was responsible for the whole of Mr Ds loss, despite Firm Cs 
involvement, as she didnt think Mr D wouldve opted to transfer his OPS benefits if suitable 
advice had been given.
Portal disagreed. In summary, it said:
It advised against the transfer of Mr Ds OPS benefits and made it very clear to him 
what benefits hed be giving up.
Alternatives to releasing cash from his OPS were discussed and discounted by Mr D 
 he was insistent on proceeding as he had significant retirement provisions 
elsewhere.
It disclosed all of the risks of proceeding clearly and Mr D was in a fully informed 
position to make his decision.
It should not be held responsible for the actions of Firm C, which was regulated by 
the FCA and was obligated to provide suitable advice.
It carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C before partnering with it and it had a 
good understanding of the likely investment strategy Firm C would recommend for 
Mr D.
The investigator had applied the FCAs guidance from 2013 erroneously as it only 
covered instances where the other firm was unregulated. As Firm C was regulated, 
Mr D has recourse to the FSCS.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to an ombudsman for a finaldecision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The regulators position
Portal facilitated the transfer of Mr Ds OPS benefits to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation about the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was providing this. 
Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange Mr Ds 
underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portals responsibilities ended once 
the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available for 
investment. When advising upon a transfer out of an OPS into a personal pension or a  
SIPP, a financial business needs to also consider the underlying investment to be used  so 
the suitability of the overall transaction. Chapter 9 of the regulators Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) deals with the requirements on a business making a personal 
recommendation in relation to a designated investment.
On 18 January 2013 the regulator at the time issued an alert about advising on pension
transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a
SIPP. This alert was issued because it had come to the regulators notice that some firms
were adopting advice models which didnt comply with the existing obligations and so
there was a potential for consumer detriment.
The regulator made its position clear in the alert, where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [FCAs] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that,
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment
strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment
strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements
In the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm involved was unregulated. In Mr Ds
case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement
with Firm S. But this didnt absolve Portal from its duty to assess the suitability of the
investments, even if it said to Mr D that it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying
investments as Firm C was doing that. In my view, the update makes it clear that it wasnt 
open to Portal to separate out the two elements; its advice on the suitability of the transfer 
had to include the suitability of the underlying investments too.A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to
Mr D under the regulatory system. So, saying it wasnt advising on the investments didnt
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this
had to include consideration of how Mr Ds funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was
suitable for Mr D. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough 
information from Mr D to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portal had to understand Mr Ds objectives and assess 
the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Ds funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without knowing what Mr D would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind
seem reasonably possible.
In addition, COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. And in order to ensure this was the case, 
and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Portal needed to gather the necessary 
information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ds objectives. It also needed to 
ensure that Mr D had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks he 
was taking. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory 
business to undertake a fact find process.
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a business to explain why the
firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable for the client  in other
words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability report outlining its advice and the
reasons for it.
Of additional relevance to this case is the insistent client categorisation attributed to Mr D 
by Portal. Whilst there now exists specific guidance on this issue, there was no rule within 
COBS at the time relating to this - although COBS 10.3.3 referred to non-advised sales in 
situations where a business had told a client that a product or service it had asked them to
undertake was inappropriate for them. And that, having regard to the circumstances, if a
business deemed it to be inappropriate, it had the choice not to facilitate that service.
Also, to accommodate insistent client type situations in the case of opt-outs and transfers
from defined benefit pension schemes, COBS 5.3.25R existed in an earlier iteration of thehandbook which required a business to make and retain a clear record of its advice not to
proceed and its clients instructions to nevertheless go ahead. It needed to then issue a 
further confirmation and explanation, in writingthat the firms advice is that the (client)
should not proceed. It was also considered good practice for the business to obtain 
instructions to proceed in the clients own hand - this would constitute more compelling
evidence of their insistence to go ahead.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it 
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should
consider the clients attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up.
Portal completely omitted any analysis of the investments Firm C proposed for Mr D and the 
suitability of them for him  despite its duty to consider the investments when advising on the 
transfer into the personal pension. This was the case even if Mr D was an insistent client for 
the purposes of the transfer. The advice first had to consider whether the intended 
investments were suitable for Mr D.
I accept that as a result of its appointed representative agreement with Firm S, Firm C was 
required to give suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do 
the same. As Mr Ds appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide 
suitable advice and act in Mr Ds best interests. And as Ive said above, this had to include 
an awareness of where Mr Ds funds would be invested.I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. Portal shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. I havent seen anything to suggest that Portal, at any point, 
checked to see how Firm C broadly proposed to invest Mr Ds funds. I believe it should have 
given the unavoidable connection this had to the transfer it was proposing. And, as 
confirmed in the 2014 alert, if Portal didnt fully understand the underlying investment 
proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not have offered advice on the 
pension transfer at all. So, in the absence of Portal knowing the investment strategy Firm C 
intended for Mr D, it couldnt provide him with suitable advice to either remain in or transfer 
his OPS.
Portal says it had a broad understanding of the investment strategy Firm C would apply for 
clients like Mr D, and Firm C had assured it that it didnt place clients funds in UCIS. But 
I think Portal needed to do more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the
expected investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr D. It needed at the very least, to
ask Firm C for an outline of that proposition. It appears that Portal failed to do that and as
a result, a significant part of Mr Ds pension fund was invested in high risk, illiquid funds. 
I would expect Firm C to have given a clear and honest outline of Mr Ds investment
proposition when asked to do so by Portal. On receipt of that, I would further expect
Portal to have told Mr D that it couldnt recommend the transfer and that the investments
were unsuitable.
There is a possibility that Firm C may not have been entirely forthcoming to Portal about
its plans to spread a significant portion of Mr Ds portfolio over unregulated investments. Had
Portal requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to invest
Mr D in these unsuitable funds, then it couldve questioned this. And in the event that Portal 
had been misled by Firm C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mr D wouldve 
realised that the investments Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portal had based 
its suitability assessment on. And Mr D couldve taken action accordingly.
Portal has said that it carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including background 
checks on the company directors, accounts and information about previous complaints. But 
it hasnt provided us with evidence of the due diligence it carried out on Firm C in connection 
with this complaint. And even if Portal did carry out general due diligence checks on Firm C, 
I dont think that negated the need to check the specific investments Firm C envisaged for 
Mr D. I also havent seen any evidence that further checks were made by Portal to satisfy 
itself that the pension transfer advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment 
advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the 
suitability assessment carried out by Portal for individual clients. I think it was also a 
reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with
Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice, which
could be identified and addressed.
In any event, although Portal doesnt agree, Im satisfied that (as was clearly set out in the 
regulators alerts in both 2013 and 2014) Portal couldnt restrict its advice merely to the 
transfer; it had to consider the proposed investments for Mr D, which it didnt do.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the complaint turns solely on where 
Mr Ds funds were invested.
Was the advice given suitable?Portal maintains its advice was suitable, as it advised Mr D against transferring out of his 
OPS and it gave him sufficient warnings about the consequences of going against the 
advice. But having considered everything carefully, I dont agree.
Portal concluded that Mr D had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk and it believed he 
had suitable level of capacity for loss for the recommendation we have made for you. But 
its unclear as to which recommendation is being referenced here  the one not to transfer, 
or the one to transfer as an insistent client. As it is followed by the recommendation to 
transfer his OPS benefits, I have assumed that its the latter.
In any event, I dont think the assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk was correct. This is 
because Im not persuaded Mr D had the necessary knowledge or experience to be able to 
understand the risks involved in investing in line with that attitude to risk. According to 
Portals fact-find, Mr D didnt have any regular investments other than a small sum in an ISA. 
And in the attitude to risk assessment, Mr D said he had little experience investing in stocks 
and shares. I appreciate that Mr D agreed with some other statements that would suggest he 
had a higher attitude to risk, but that was for the adviser to determine based on all the facts 
and Mr Ds circumstances. It wasnt reasonable for Portal to simply rely on statements made 
by Mr D when the evidence demonstrated otherwise.
Im also mindful that since raising his complaint, we have been provided evidence showing 
that Mr D already had a SIPP which had been established in 2013. The evidence shows that 
of the £25,000 held in the SIPP, £23,400 was invested in UCIS. Whilst this would suggest 
Mr D had some experience of high-risk alternative investments at the time he met with 
Portal, Portal didnt establish this. And if it had, it may well have considered that Mr D was 
not in the position to take a higher risk with his OPS funds given hed already invested in 
UCIS. And despite Mr D having these investments, I still havent seen evidence to persuade 
me that had the necessary knowledge or experience to understand the risks involved with 
them.
Im also not persuaded that Mr D had significant capacity for loss such that he could afford to 
take that level of risk with his pension, so close to his retirement age. Portal says that Mr D 
had other substantial retirement provisions, but I dont think that this is supported by the 
information it gathered at the time. Mr D had some land and an investment property, but 
these assets were not readily realisable and would depend on Mr D being able to find a 
buyer to release any cash from them. And while it appears Mr D had another pension, Portal 
didnt gather any information about this, for example, what type of pension this was, how 
much it was worth and what income it could provide. Portal also didnt determine how much 
income Mr D required in retirement, so it couldnt take a view on whether or not Mr D was 
reliant on the income his OPS provided at age 65. With all of this in mind, I dont think Portal 
could reasonably conclude Mr D had sufficient capacity for loss, such that he could afford to 
take a moderately adventurous risk with his OPS funds.
Portal correctly concluded that the critical yields of 23.6% (full pension) and 15.6% (if Mr D 
took TFC and a reduced pension) were not achievable at age 65. So, its incorrect 
assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk hasnt necessarily affected this aspect of the 
recommendation, as these growth rates were unachievable even if investing in higher risk 
assets. But, as I will go on to explain later in this decision, it has likely had consequences for 
Mr D in respect of the investments made by Firm C, which I think Portal ought to have 
advised Mr D on.
Although Portal advised Mr D not to transfer his OPS benefits because of the high critical 
yields, I dont think it provided full and clear advice to Mr D, such that it left him in a position 
to make an informed decision. Mr Ds only objective was to help his daughter purchase a property. So, Portal needed to explore the ways Mr D could achieve this  releasing money 
from his OPS was only one way to meet this objective.
Portal says that it did explore alternative means of meeting the objective and says this was 
fully explained in the suitability report. Ive considered what it has said there, but Im not 
persuaded that Portal explored the alternatives in any meaningful way. For example, Portal 
said that Mr D didnt wish to remortgage due to the early redemption penalties  but 
according to Portals fact-fine, Mr D didnt have a mortgage, so this appears to be a generic 
reason rather than being specific to him. More importantly, Portal didnt actually establish 
how much Mr D needed or intended to contribute to his daughters house purchase. I dont 
see how Portal could actually give Mr D suitable advice in respect of his objective without 
knowing this basic fact. And given its importance, this fails the fundamental test within COBS 
9 of Portal knowing its client.
Mr D was only able to release around £9,000 from his pension after it had been transferred. 
The suitability report noted that Mr D didnt want to use his existing savings to raise the cash 
he needed and it also said Mr D wanted to use the TFC to supplement his disposable 
income. So, it seems to me that Mr D didnt actually intend to give the full sum released from 
his pension to his daughter. With this in mind, I think Portal ought to have explored Mr D 
taking a loan instead. Given the sum needed appears to have been relatively low and 
interest rates were also low at the time, this was likely to be affordable for Mr D given he had 
over £1,000 in disposable income each month. So, I think this is something which could, and 
should, have been explored in more than one very brief and dismissive sentence.
The suitability report also noted that Mr D didnt want to use his existing assets to meet this 
objective. Mr D had savings of around £7,000  it isnt clear why he didnt want to use these 
funds, particularly when he had significant disposable income and would have been able to 
rebuild those funds quite quickly.
Mr D also had another pension. It isnt clear if this pension was the SIPP that Mr D 
established in 2013. But the value of this was lower than Mr Ds OPS benefits so I think it is 
unlikely this was the pension that Mr D described as his significant retirement provisions. If 
Mr Ds other pension was a defined-contribution scheme, rather than an OPS, Mr D may 
have been able to access his TFC without taking his pension income. Or if not, he could 
have explored transferring this pension to a SIPP, rather than losing the guarantees 
associated with his OPS by transferring this pension. By failing to enquire about this pension 
to determine whether or not it could be accessed to meet Mr Ds needs, I dont think Portal 
acted in his best interests  and so failed the requirement of COBS 2.1.1.
I appreciate Mr D may have dismissed these alternative options from the outset, but in giving 
suitable advice to Mr D I think Portal had to provide him with an alternative means of 
meeting his objective so he was in an informed position. I dont think the alternatives were 
explored in any detail. And without fully considering the alternatives and presenting them to 
Mr D in a balanced way, all he had was advice not to transfer his OPS benefits to meet this 
need. And in the absence of any alternative solution proposed, such as the cost of a loan to 
provide the sum required to his daughter, Mr D likely believed this was the only realistic 
option. On balance, if Mr D had been presented with alternative options and clear advice on 
what Portal considered to be a suitable way of meeting his objective, I think he wouldve 
likely followed this and left his OPS intact.
Lastly, despite the repeated statements Portal made in the suitability report advising Mr D 
not to transfer his OPS benefits, I think this was significantly undermined by the 
recommendation it gave Mr D to transfer his benefits to a SIPP. By doing this I think it 
effectively advised Mr D to transfer his OPS benefits. Portal explained how this met his 
objectives, but it also went further than this, saying:The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.
In giving the advice not to transfer out, Portal had concluded the opposite given the high 
critical yields. So, this statement was extremely misleading and I think it wouldve left Mr D 
believing that Portal ultimately approved of his intended course of action.
I appreciate Portal says it was reasonable for it to make a recommendation as to where Mr D 
should transfer his funds to (the SIPP) following his confirmation that he wished to proceed 
as an insistent client. But as Ive said above, I dont think Portal can make a distinction under 
the rules as to which part of advice it is recommending Mr D proceed with.
In giving suitable advice, I think Portal needed to consider the whole of the transaction, that 
is the transfer from the OPS and the intended investments. Instead, Portal appears to have 
applied a two-step approach, sending Mr D a brief letter advising him not to transfer out of 
the OPS without considering where Mr D would invest his funds. Only after securing Mr Ds 
confirmation that he wanted to proceed as an insistent client did Portal provide a suitability 
report providing a recommendation on the transaction as a whole. However, Portal failed to 
establish what investments Firm C intended for Mr D, and instead simply recommended he 
invest in a cash deposit fund. But I think Portal needed to make it clear that it was advising 
him against proceeding with the transaction as a whole. By providing Mr D with a 
recommendation to transfer his benefits to a SIPP, I think Mr D couldve believed that 
overall, Portal was recommending he go ahead with the transfer.
For completeness, I should say that the investments Firm C placed Mr Ds funds in were not 
suitable for him. And in providing suitable advice, Portal needed to understand the 
investments envisaged for Mr D and determine whether these were suitable for him. As Ive 
said above, I dont think Mr D had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. I think at most it 
was likely to be a medium or balanced investor in relation to these funds  although without 
having a full picture of Mr Ds other pension, its possible it couldve been lower. In light of 
this, I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr D at all, let alone in the proportion invested. And 
theres nothing to indicate Mr D had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or 
understand the risks associated with these types of investments. I appreciate that it has 
since transpired that Mr D already had a small SIPP which had already invested in UCIS, but 
if Portal had known this, I think this wouldve further evidenced that it was not suitable for 
Mr D to invest any more of his pension funds in UCIS.
So, when giving its recommendation Portal needed to consider the proposed transfer and 
the UCIS investments that Firm C intended for him. And I think it needed to make it clear to 
Mr D that it could not recommend he proceed with any aspect of the transaction as it was not 
in his best interests.
Overall, I dont think the suitability report was sufficient as a recommendation not to
proceed. This is because it didnt fully explore Mr Ds objective and the alternative means of 
meeting it, without releasing money from his OPS. I also think Portal muddied the waters by 
recommending he transfer his benefits to a SIPP, and it failed to consider where Firm C 
would invest Mr Ds funds, meaning he wasnt put in an informed position to make his 
decision. So, I dont think the advice was compliant with the requirements of COBS.
Insistent clientPortal says that it applied a robust insistent client process and went above what was 
expected of it at the time. But notwithstanding the points Ive already made above, I have 
serious concerns about the insistent client process Portal employed here.
Mr D discussed his desire to access his pension when he spoke with Portal in 
February 2015. Portal then sent him a brief letter, which said:
You currently have a pension with [former employer] which has a transfer value of £35,224, 
from which you could release a total amount of £8,806 as a tax free lump sum. However, as 
the critical yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits) with this provider is 
23.60% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be 
waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension £2,056 per annum which is payable at 
retirement age 65.
If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this is 
against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent client 
form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
I enclose a form with the various options available to you. Please can you complete and 
return both forms to us in the pre-paid envelope as soon as possible. Once we have this, 
I will arrange to send out all the relevant application forms and suitability report detailing our 
advice.
So, before Portal had even provided a formal suitability report, it paved the way for Mr D to 
proceed on an insistent client basis. The letter included the insistent client form. Its not in 
dispute that Mr D signed the insistent client form. But it was pre-completed, thereby 
removing the opportunity for Mr D to express in his own words why he wished to ignore 
professional advice and proceed with an unsuitable transfer.
I appreciate that it was not a regulatory requirement at the time the advice was given for 
Mr D to provide a letter in his own words explaining why he wished to proceed against 
Portals advice. But regardless of this, Portal was required to ensure that it treated Mr D fairly 
and that it acted in his best interests. And Im not persuaded that it did treat Mr D fairly when 
it went to such lengths to assist Mr D to identify as an insistent client. To my mind, the 
process wasnt geared towards Mr D making a considered assessment of the reasons why 
he shouldnt be transferring  I think that would have involved Portal providing the full 
recommendation to Mr D, allowing him to consider this on his own and then revert to Portal if 
he still wished to proceed. On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process 
was designed to facilitate the transfer. I dont think that providing Mr D with a means of 
proceeding against the advice, without establishing why he wanted to go against it and why 
he didnt want to explore alternatives demonstrates that Portal had his best interests in mind.
Furthermore, this declaration was also provided to Mr D before he received Portals full 
suitability report, so he didnt have all of the information he needed to make an informed 
decision  all that was highlighted was the critical yield being unachievable, and the pension 
Mr D would be giving up. Only after receiving Mr Ds confirmation that he wished to proceed 
did Portal send Mr D the formal suitability report.  And while he received a recommendation 
not to transfer out of the OPS, this was followed by the recommendation to transfer out of 
the OPS to a SIPP in the same report. As Ive said above, this seriously undermined the 
recommendation not to transfer out.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr D to agree that 
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go 
ahead with the transfer. Nevertheless, Ive considered whether Mr D wouldve acted 
differently if Portal had employed a fair and transparent process.Would Mr D have acted differently?
It is not in dispute that Mr D wanted some cash to help his daughter purchase a property. 
What is in dispute is whether Portal did enough to make Mr D aware of the other options 
open to him to do so, and whether, if made properly aware of the value of the benefits he 
was relinquishing and other available options, he would have acted differently.
My view is that he would. I think a balanced presentation of how Mr D could meet his 
objective of giving some cash to his daughter, without giving up the guaranteed income his 
OPS would provide would have persuaded Mr D to not proceed with the transfer. I say this 
because although Portal didnt establish how much Mr D required, it could not have been 
more than around £9,000, which is what Mr D was able to take as TFC as a result of 
transferring out of his OPS. Mr D already had £7,000 in savings, and if he didnt want to use 
these he couldve taken a small loan which I think wouldve been affordable for him. Had 
Portal explained that it recommended he raise the funds he required this way, rather than 
transfer his OPS, and that this was what was in his best interest, I think he wouldve 
accepted this advice.
Portal may say the recommendation was for Mr D not to proceed with the transfer  which I 
consider to have been the suitable course of action. But my overall view of the suitability 
report is that it lacked balance and rigour  for all the reasons set out above. Had Portal 
conveyed a more balanced assessment, and not directed Mr D towards the insistent client 
route, I think he would have acted differently and retained his deferred benefits.
Having very carefully considered this matter, overall, I dont think Mr D fully understood the 
risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his deferred pension benefits and 
investing as he did. As this is the case, I dont think he was in a position to make an informed 
decision about whether insisting on going ahead with the transfer was a suitable course of 
action. As such, my decision is that Mr D's complaint should be upheld.
Is Portal responsible for all of Mr Ds loss?
In my view, the fact that Portal didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr D when it proposed that he transfer his OPS, meant that it couldnt 
reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mr Ds needs was 
being made on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, I dont think Mr D fully 
understood the risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his OPS benefits. As 
this is the case, I dont think he was in a position to make an informed decision about 
whether insisting on going ahead with the transfer was a suitable course of action.
With a full and balanced assessment of his options and the ramifications of relinquishing 
guaranteed benefits, I dont think Mr D would have transferred his OPS benefits to release
his TFC in the first place. And as a result of transferring, Firm C was in effect given the 
freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Ds SIPP was invested.
I think it was clear from the outset that Mr D was seeking to rely on the advice he reasonably
expected to obtain from Portal. And I think Portals failings in appropriately assessing the 
overall suitability of the transaction it was recommending played a pivotal role in Mr Ds 
decision to transfer, and to be dealt with as an insistent client. Overall, I consider that the 
losses suffered by Mr D are as a result of Portals inappropriate advice and failings in its 
insistent client process. And had it not been for these, I dont believe Mr D would have gone 
ahead with the transfer.Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portal. In the circumstances, though, I think holding Portal fully responsible for the 
whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that anything Firm C did was 
an intervening act which absolves Portal of its responsibility for Mr Ds losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship in 
which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension transfer advice and investment. Portal advised Mr D not to 
transfer but as Ive said above, I think it actually strayed into advising him to transfer out, the 
insistent client process it followed was flawed and it didnt provide Mr D with enough 
information to make an informed decision.
Portal set up the SIPP and arranged for Mr Ds existing pension benefits to be transferred 
over. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr D to invest a significant share of his SIPP funds 
in unsuitable funds. But I think it is fair to hold Portal fully responsible for Mr Ds loss. 
Ultimately Portal recommended Mr D should transfer his OPS to the SIPP, without ensuring 
the subsequent investments he would go on to make, through Firm C were suitable for him. 
So, in my view, the entirety of Mr Ds loss stems from Portals unsuitable advice and flawed 
insistent client process. Portals understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice to just 
the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments too, 
even if Firm C was advising Mr D on the investments. It was only as a result of Portals 
involvement that Mr D transferred his OPS to the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since the 
eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt 
happened, he couldnt have invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. In Mr Ds case, hes told us that 
the FSCS turned his claim down. So this means holding Portal responsible for only part of 
the loss could risk leaving Mr D out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im 
not saying Portal is wholly responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are 
now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that Portal gave unsuitable advice and 
it is responsible for the losses Mr D suffered in transferring his OPS to the SIPP and 
investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of 
the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. So, overall, I think holding Portal 
fully responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr D £300 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
My aim is to return Mr D to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr D to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr D to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr D the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman