DRN-2166609
The complaint
Mr P complains that TTR PT Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to courses he took 
finance to pay for.
What happened
Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement in August 2017 to go on training courses. He 
paid for these courses by entering a fixed sum loan agreement with TTR who paid for the 
courses with the advance from the loan agreement. Mr P agreed to repay the loan through 
monthly repayments. 
Mr P has made complaints previously about issues relating to this agreement. Those matters 
have been dealt with and are not to be dealt with under this decision. So the aspects of this 
complaint are limited to whether Mr P tried to cancel the agreement within fourteen days of 
taking it out, whether he was told he could have a refund and whether he was told he was 
being blocked and ignored whilst trying to cancel/get a refund.
Mr P complained to TTR. TTR told Mr P that it didnt feel that it had done anything wrong. Mr 
P didnt agree so he complained here. The investigator didnt feel any part of the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr P doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information I have is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr P has provided a significant amount of screenshots of his communications with TTR 
which purport to support his position that he tried to cancel within fourteen days of entering 
into the contract. Accordingly Mr P would like his money back as he went on to pay some 
instalments of the loan back and then entered into a discounted agreement with TTR to 
settle his debt with it by repaying a reduced lump sum. He feels he shouldnt have had to 
pay any money to TTR and should be repaid all monies paid to TTR.
TTR has pointed to a number of issues with these various screenshots. It feels that they are 
not real and that they have been created to support Mr Ps arguments. So before I can 
decide on whether TTR has treated Mr P fairly I need to consider the evidence provided by 
both sides so that I can then allocate each piece of evidence the appropriate weight in my 
decision making.
I have seen a copy of the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement Mr P electronically signed and I can 
see when he signed it. Ive seen a history of Mr Ps work on the course he undertook during 
2017 and early 2018. Ive seen the correspondence Mr P had with TTR during this time 
including when he didnt do as well as hed have liked in a test in 2018 and there was 
discussion about that with TTR at that time. In the evidence TTR has provided there isnt any 
persuasive evidence of Mr P trying to cancel the agreement within fourteen days of taking 
the agreement out.
Mr P points to what he says is evidence of him trying to cancel within fourteen days of taking 
the agreement. This includes copies of email correspondence and screenshots of webchats 
purporting to between him and TTR. One of these copies of emails Mr P has provided is 
timestamped and purports to be acknowledging Mr Ps wish to cancel within fourteen days of 
taking the course. Ive considered this email very carefully. Firstly I note that it is dated the 
same day as Mr P signed the Fixed Sum Loan agreement to pay for the course. Which does 
seem inconsistent with Mr Ps progress through the course and the copies of conversations 
Mr P had with the business about the course during 2017 and 2018. TTR have also pointed 
to the banner on this email that Mr P has supplied purporting to be from August 2017. In it 
there is reference to TTR winning a customer service award from an independent company 
in 2018. Ive considered this and looked into these awards and note that the independent 
company issue these awards at the beginning of the year that the award covers. Accordingly 
TTRs emails from 2017 shouldnt be referencing an award for 2018. And bearing in mind 
TTR wouldnt have known it had been awarded the award until 2018 I think it unlikely that it 
decided to advertise being awarded this award in 2017 before it found out it had been 
awarded this award. Accordingly Im not persuaded I can place significant weight on this 
email that Mr P has provided.
Mr P has also provided screenshots of webchats that he says he had with TTR when he said 
he was trying to cancel within the fourteen-day period. These screenshots are in the 
common format of the webchat being a vertical running conversation between Mr P and a 
TTR representative on one side of the page overlaying TTRs website in the background. 
These webchats purport to show TTR representatives being dismissive to Mr Ps concerns. 
Ive also considered evidence from TTR. It has shared with me detailed submissions 
showing all the changes to their website over a significant period of time. I can see the 
changes in aspects of their website including how it looks and its functionality and can see 
the evolution of their design process also over a significant period of time. I have considered 
these records particularly regarding issues such as images used on the website, fonts, date 
stamps and also its record keeping, and which members of staff have access to which 
records and their respective roles and what they would have known. This service also has 
access to tools which enable us independently to see how websites looked at different points 
in time over many years. So I have an understanding of how TTRs website looked before 
and after Mr P entered into the agreement with TTR. And this independently supports the 
submissions of TTR.
Having considered the wealth of evidence independently sourced and that from TTR Im 
persuaded that I cannot consider the key screenshots that Mr P seeks to rely upon as 
decisive or persuasive in my weighing up of the evidence available. 
Mr P points to some interactions hes had with TTR on social media. Ive considered these. 
But I note that there are inconsistencies in that evidence also particularly in what can be 
seen in those interactions. So I dont think they are persuasive here.
Mr P points to online reviews of TTR. But my role is to decide purely on Mr Ps dispute with 
TTR and other unrelated individuals comments online about doesnt change whether TTR 
treated Mr P fairly in this particular matter.Mr P points to not receiving a laptop which he says he should have received when starting 
the course. TTR has noted that it didnt offer laptops in its offering to perspective candidates 
for the course when Mr P was liaising with TTR and signing up to the agreement. And I can 
see discussions Mr P had with TTR before signing the agreement and there is no mention of 
any laptop. And I think considering the amount borrowed, a free laptop included would have 
been a significant inducement to Mr P had it been offered. But there is no mention of it in the 
records that I think are persuasive at the time. Ive considered what has happened here and 
note that Mr P did speak to TTR according to its records regarding the course in early 2018. 
In those records there is no mention of the missing laptop nor trying to cancel the 
agreement. Those discussion focus on Mr P not doing so well in a test as hed have liked 
and being unhappy with the support being received to progress with the course. If such 
significant issues as cancelling his agreement and a missing laptop had been present at that 
time I think on balance that Mr P would have raised them then. But he didnt.
All in all having considered everything Mr P has said I dont think TTR has treated Mr P 
unfairly. I can see significant evidence of Mr P progressing through the course during the 
latter stages of 2017 and 2018 and I can see the discourse between Mr P and TTR during 
this time which TTR has supplied. 
Im not persuaded on balance that Mr P cancelled the agreement within the fourteen-day 
period. Im not persuaded he was told would be getting a refund and Im not persuaded that 
the customer service Mr P received in relation to these issues was sufficiently unfair to 
warrant my upholding this complaint. So, on balance, I have decided that this complaint 
shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about TTR PT Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman