DRN-2581844
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Covea Insurance plcs (Coveas) approved repairer carried out 
poor repairs when he made a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
  
What happened
In December 2019 Mr Ds car was vandalised. He claimed on his motor insurance policy, 
held with Covea. The claim was accepted and his car was collected for repairs at the end of 
that month. 
The car had to be returned to the garage on three separate occasions for poor repairs 
between December 2019 and 8 June 2020, when the car was finally returned to Mr D fully 
repaired. 
Mr D was unhappy with the quality of the repairs and the length of time theyd taken. He said 
itd taken six months for the repairs to be completed. So he complained to Covea. In their 
final response letter, dated 23 June 2020, Covea covered Mr Ds complaint about damage to 
his bumper and about the locking wheel nut set and key, which had gone missing during the 
repairs.
They upheld the complaint about the missing locking wheel nut key and awarded Mr D £50 
as an apology and in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But they 
didnt uphold the complaint relating to the bumper damage. 
Mr Ds car was then involved in another accident. 
On 2 July 2020 Mr D complained again to Covea.  He was unhappy that the vandalism 
repairs had taken six months. And he was unhappy with the £50 compensation hed been 
given. He said that hed been planning to sell the car. And that the delayed repair work had 
reduced the value of the car by £2,500. He said hed noticed further issues with the original 
repairs when looking at his car after the accident. He asked for compensation for all the 
issues hed raised.
Covea agreed to fix the issues Mr D had identified as part of the repairs in the new claim.
Mr D confirmed he was satisfied with the repairs completed under the second claim. But he 
still wanted compensation for the poor service for the vandalism repairs and for the impact 
itd had on the value of his car. 
Mr D contacted our service on 9 July 2020. As hed raised issues with us that he hadnt 
raised with Covea, they asked for time to investigate the additional points. Covea advised us 
that no further formal responses would be issued before we investigated Mr Ds complaint.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. While she didnt think Covea were responsible for 
any loss in the sale price Mr D might achieve, she felt that the £50 compensation theyd paid 
him wasnt enough for the distress and inconvenience hed been put through. She felt an 
additional £150 compensation would be fair. 
Covea disagreed with our investigator. They noted that as theyd sorted out a number of 
issues as gestures of goodwill, they felt the compensation theyd offered was enough. Mr D 
didnt agree either. He felt he should be compensated for the lost sale value of his car. And 
that he should be given more compensation for the delays hed experienced.
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I think Mr Ds experience has been poor. It took a 
total of six months for his car to be repaired. The required repairs were extensive and 
wouldve taken some time to fix. But based on what Ive seen they shouldnt have taken as 
long as they did to be completed to a satisfactory standard. Mr D had only bought the car 
four months before the vandalism. 
Reduction to sale price
Mr D says he was originally offered £22,000 for his car sometime before June 2020.
He actually sold the car in July 2020 for just over £20,400. 
Mr D feels that if the repairs had been completed in a more timely manner he wouldve sold 
the car prior to the second incident and wouldve got more money for it.
Although this might be true, I cant hold Covea responsible for any loss of value. I dont have 
enough evidence to make me think its most likely the delays to the repairs affected the price 
Mr D wouldve achieved had he been able to sell his car earlier. 
Road tax and insurance
Mr D asked for compensation for road tax and insurance while his vehicle was being 
repaired. Im not going to ask Covea to cover these costs. 
It was always going to take some time to repair his car given the amount of damage itd 
suffered. And Mr D could access his car if he needed it while the approved repairer was 
waiting for parts. I also note that Mr D had access to a courtesy car while his car was being 
repaired.
So I dont agree that Covea should be responsible for those costs.
The compensation I do require (see below) is intended to reflect the unnecessary 
inconvenience Mr D faced as a result of Coveas poor service, not to cover normal ongoing 
expenses.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I think Mr Ds been caused distress and inconvenience due to the numerous problems with 
repairs. While I can see that Covea werent informed of any issues until 1 June 2020, their 
approved repairer clearly didnt carry out the repairs correctly and in a timely manner.
From what Ive seen, the poor quality of the repair work done by the first garage led Mr D to 
have concerns that he would eventually find other unresolved issues with his car. 
 
I can see that Covea feel theyve offered Mr D a number of gestures of goodwill over the 
course of the repairs. They say that they have evidence to show that the bumper damage 
existed before the vandalism. Mr D disputes this. They also say that their approved repairer went out of their way to source the non-standard bulbs Mr D had asked for. They also note 
that they paid compensation for the lost wheel nut lock even though they had no proof Mr D 
hadnt lost it himself. 
Its not clear from the information Ive seen, but, having considered everything, I think its 
likely Covea did do some things they werent strictly required to. So Ive taken that into 
account when considering compensation.   
Covea say that their approved repairer has explained that there were some delays in 
ordering parts, but during the times they were waiting for these, Mr D had access to his 
vehicle. They note that a number of issues were raised relating to the fog lights, the active 
beams on the lights and touch locking on the passenger side. These issues were eventually 
rectified by the approved repairer. But Mr D couldve expected them to have been resolved 
sooner and without his involvement. 
After the second incident, Mr D contacted Covea to raise further concerns about the original 
repairs. The repairs required due to the second incident were to be arranged by a different 
branch of the same approved repairer. Covea say that Mr D has confirmed that the new 
branch carried out the repairs  including the rectification work from the vandalism repairs - 
satisfactorily and in a timely manner. 
Covea have provided detailed explanations as to why they dont feel their approved repairer 
should be held responsible for all of the delays our investigator highlighted. For example, 
they said that some of the delays were due to the garage obtaining the non-standard parts 
Mr D had requested. They also said they are at the mercy of the dealer as to when they can 
fit vehicles in for the repair, just like any other customer, so didnt feel they should be held 
responsible for the dealers scheduling.  While some of their points have merit, it remains 
clear that the if repairs had been carried out to a higher standard initially, the car wouldnt 
have had to be returned and the repairs wouldnt have taken so long. 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, including the gestures of goodwill mentioned earlier, I 
require Covea to pay Mr D an additional £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the less than perfect repairs caused him.  
I appreciate that Mr D feels this isnt enough to compensate him for what hes been through. 
But I can see that he had a courtesy car for some time during the repairs, which minimised 
the impact on him of his car being in the garage for so long.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr D a further £150 compensation in addition to the £50 theyve 
already paid him. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple 
rate of 8% a year. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman