DRN-3991965
The complaint
Mr T holds a SIPP with Standard Life Assurance Limited. He has complained to Standard 
Life Assurance Limited that their online portal showed the wrong amount of tax-free cash 
that was available for him to draw.
What happened
Since December 2016 Mr T has been taking tax-free cash from his SIPP on a regular basis, 
using Standard Lifes Tailored Drawdown. Mr Ts financial adviser was initially making the 
drawdown requests for him, but from the start of 2019 Mr T was making the drawdown 
requests himself. 
Each time Mr T wanted an amount of tax-free cash, he would telephone Standard Life. The 
amount of tax-free cash that Mr T would request wasnt the same every time. Hed tell 
Standard Life how much tax-free cash he wanted to be paid out on each call. Standard Life 
took Mr T through a call process where each time they would ask Mr T questions about the 
withdrawal that he wanted to make. Once this process had been successfully completed, 
Standard Life was able to process the payment of the tax-free cash to Mr T. 
Standard Life have said that their systems would allow for up to 40 one off tax-free cash 
withdrawals to be paid from a pension plan. Once 40 withdrawals had been completed a 
new plan had to be set up. Up to 40 one off withdrawals could then be taken from the new 
plan, and so on. 
Mr T completed 40 withdrawals from his Standard Life SIPP, so a new pension plan was set 
up for him in March 2020, which allowed the regular tax-free cash withdrawals to continue. 
However, once the new plan was set up, only details for that new plan could be seen online. 
This meant that Mr T couldnt see any details of the withdrawals that were taken under his 
old SIPP online anymore. Standard Life have said that Mr T couldve asked for a written 
transaction history for the old SIPP at any time though.
Mr T contacted Standard Life by telephone in July 2021 to ask for a tax-free cash withdrawal 
of £8,000 to be paid to him. At that time the amount of available tax-free cash shown on 
Standard Lifes online portal for Mr Ts pension was approximately £39,000. 
Standard Life have said that the day following Mr Ts telephone call, the amount of tax-free 
cash that was available to take from Mr Ts pension was calculated. This showed that the 
amount of remaining tax-free cash available in Mr Ts pension was less than £8,000. Mr T 
could therefore take the last remaining amount of tax-free cash if he wanted, but this amount 
was less than the £8,000 that he had wanted and substantially less than the amount of tax-
free cash that he thought he had left. Once the last remaining amount of tax-free cash had 
been taken, then no more would be available to Mr T. 
Mr Ts financial adviser contacted Standard Life at the end of July 2021, and again in early 
August 2021, to ask why the amount of remaining tax-free cash available to Mr T was less 
than the figure of approximately £39,000 that was quoted on Standard Lifes online portal. 
Standard Life provided details of their tax-free cash calculations to Mr Ts financial adviser, 
who then checked these calculations themselves. Mr Ts financial adviser agreed with 
Standard Lifes calculations.
Standard Life have said that the amount of available tax-free cash shown on the online 
portal is calculated at 25% of Mr Ts remaining pre pension pot. This was the amount of Mr 
Ts pension savings that he had not yet taken any tax-free cash from. They have also said 
that their systems are unable to quote the actual amount of remaining tax-free cash available 
to Mr T as there are many variables that can affect the amount that can be taken.
Standard Life have said that for this reason there is a warning on Mr Ts online portal about 
the available tax-free cash figure shown. This warning is as follows:
Important information about the tax-free cash remaining.
Tax-free cash remaining
The tax-free cash remaining figure shown above is calculated from your Standard Life 
pension pot that has not yet moved into retirement (drawdown). It is usually calculated at 
25%, however, depending on your individual circumstances, your tax-free cash could be 
higher or lower than this. 
Mr T had a protected lifetime allowance of £1.8m. When Mr T contacted Standard Life in 
July 2021 he had already used up approximately 98.5% of his lifetime allowance. He 
therefore had approximately 1.5% of his lifetime allowance of £1.8m left, so approximately 
£27,000. 
Mr T was able to take tax-free cash at 25% of the remainder of his lifetime allowance, so the 
remaining tax-free cash available to Mr T was approximately £6,750, ie 25% of £27,000. As 
his remaining pre pension pot was more than 1.5% of his lifetime allowance, Mr T could not 
take tax-free cash from all of his pre pension pot.   
Once Mr T had taken the remainder of his tax-free cash, then no more tax-free cash was 
available to him. Anything else that he then took from his pension would be liable to income 
tax. 
Mr T has said that he relied on the tax-free cash figure shown on Standard Lifes online 
portal. He says that he therefore believed that he still had approximately £39,000 of tax-free 
cash available to take and that hed based his financial and tax planning on this amount. 
Mr T has also said that as the amount of available tax-free cash was less than he thought, 
his financial and tax planning for that period was wrong, which led to an increase in tax he 
had to pay. He has also said that this has created stress and extra work for him.
Mr Ts financial adviser raised a complaint with Standard Life on Mr Ts behalf in August 
2021.
Standard Life replied to Mr Ts complaint in September 2021. They did not uphold the 
complaint. In their reply Standard life pointed to the warning about the tax-free cash that 
appeared on their online portal.
Mr T didnt accept Standard Lifes decision and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
An investigator in the Financial Ombudsman Service has reviewed Mr Ts complaint. They did not uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and asked 
for his complaint against Standard Life to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life have said that the amount of available tax-free cash shown on their online 
portal was calculated at 25% of the pre pension pot. Standard Life have also said that their 
systems are unable to quote the amount of tax-free cash available on an individual basis, as 
there are many variables which can affect the amount of tax-free cash that can be taken, 
such as having pension plans held elsewhere or limitations because of the lifetime 
allowance.
Standard Life have said thats why they have the warning thats detailed above on their 
online portal. This warning appears on the portal page headed Welcome.
Standard Life have also said that once they received instructions from Mr T to withdraw tax-
free cash, their lifetime allowance team would carry out a calculation which would consider 
Mr Ts individual circumstances. Once this calculation was completed Standard Life could 
confirm if the amount of tax-free cash Mr T had requested could be paid out.   
Mr T was contacting Standard Life by telephone himself to ask for the tax-free cash 
withdrawals. From recordings of phone calls that I have been able to listen to, including the 
call made in July 2021 to ask for the £8,000 withdrawal, these calls appear to follow a similar 
pattern, with the same set of questions being asked each time by Standard Life. I have not 
received recordings of every phone call Mr T made to Standard Life, but from those I have 
the format is similar.
In the call made in July 2021 Mr T confirms the name of his financial adviser linked to his 
SIPP and says that he has received advice on the tax-free cash withdrawal from his financial 
adviser. Mr T is asked by Standard Life if he wants them to contact his financial adviser, so 
that they can then deal with the withdrawal for him, but Mr T says that he is happy to do it 
himself. 
Mr T also confirms that he had a protected lifetime allowance of £1.8m and that he has no 
other pension elsewhere. 
Standard Life will then take Mr T through some further questions and once these are 
covered Standard Life will then process the tax-free cash withdrawal request. As detailed 
above, this will involve the calculation of the tax-free cash still available to Mr T. 
I have read through all of the information that Mr T has provided. Mr T has said that in May 
2021 he received an email from his financial adviser which told him that the balance of your 
remaining tax-free cash is £52,620.78, which is equal to around 8 months of your tax- free 
cash payments. I have not seen any evidence to show where Mr Ts financial advisers 
obtained this figure from. 
Mr T says that he was basing his financial and tax planning on the amount of available tax-
free cash quoted on Standard Lifes online portal. 
I have studied the warning that appears on Standard Lifes online portal. This warning is on a 
page headed Welcome, so I think that its reasonable that the warning would have been 
visible each time Mr T logged onto the online portal. The statement says Important information about the tax-free cash remaining. I think that its 
reasonable to assume that a policyholder who was drawing tax-free cash from their pension 
would have understood that they needed to read the warning. 
The statement goes on to say The tax-free cash remaining figure shown above is calculated 
from your Standard Life pension pot that has not yet moved into retirement (drawdown). It is 
usually calculated at 25%, however, depending on your individual circumstances, your tax-
free cash could be higher or lower than this. 
Ive considered whether its reasonable to think that the statement was sufficient to give Mr T 
warning that in his circumstances he shouldnt be relying on the tax-free cash figure shown 
on the portal when completing his financial and tax planning.  
The statement says that depending on your individual circumstances, your tax-free cash 
could be higher or lower than this. Because of Mr Ts individual circumstances his tax-free 
cash entitlement wasnt 25% of his pre pension pot, as his entitlement was limited by his 
lifetime allowance. 
In his phone calls with Standard Life Mr T says that he has a protected lifetime allowance of 
£1.8m, and that this protection is still valid. I have however not seen any evidence to show if 
Mr T was aware that his tax-free cash entitlement was limited by his protected lifetime 
allowance.
However, Mr T was receiving advice from his financial adviser on the tax-free cash 
withdrawals. I think that its reasonable to assume that if Mr T was not aware that his tax-free 
cash entitlement was limited by his lifetime allowance, then his financial adviser wouldve 
known this.  
I also think that its reasonable to assume that as Mr T was receiving advice from his 
financial adviser on his tax-free cash withdrawals, then Mr Ts lifetime allowance and the 
limit that this placed on the tax-free cash available to him would have been discussed. But 
even if it wasnt discussed, I still think Standard Life did enough to warn Mr T that his tax-free 
cash could differ from what the online portal was saying.
Whilst I can understand why Mr T would have liked the online portal to display a tax-free 
cash figure that had been calculated based on his own individual circumstances every time 
he logged in, my role here is to assess whether Standard Life acted fairly and reasonably.
Given that calculating an up-to-date figure on an ongoing basis wouldnt have been 
straightforward, I think Standard Lifes approach of giving an indicative figure, along with a 
warning saying individual circumstances might result in a different tax-free cash amount, was 
fair and reasonable 
I therefore think that the statement set out on Standard Lifes online portal did give sufficient 
warning that the available tax-free cash to Mr T could be higher or lower than the figure 
shown on the portal. I think that this statement was sufficient to give warning that when Mr T 
was drawing up his financial plans, and when he was receiving advice from his financial 
adviser on the tax-free cash withdrawals, that he could not rely upon the available tax-free 
cash figure shown on the online portal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against Standard Life Assurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman