DRN-2752401
The complaint
Ms H complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans didnt carry out adequate 
checks before lending to her.
What happened
Ms H was provided with a loan for £300 by Dot Dot Loans in June 2018. The loan was 
repayable over three months with monthly instalments of just under £150.
Ms H says that before the loan was provided Dot Dot Loans didnt carry out adequate 
affordability checks. She says that had this happened, Dot Dot Loans would have realised 
that she had several other loans outstanding at the time. Ms H says the loan has caused her 
upset and anxiety and added to her financial difficulties.
Dot Dot Loans says that before the loan was provided it gathered information about Ms Hs 
income and expenses. It says it verified Ms Hs income and identity and carried out a credit 
check and amended Ms Hs income and expenses figures based on its checks. It says 
although Ms H noted other loans outstanding at the time, it included the payments she was 
making for other credit commitments in its assessment.
Dot Dot Loans says that Ms Hs assessment showed she had a monthly disposable income 
of over £2,000 and that the loan appeared affordable. It noted that Ms H repaid the loan 
early.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that further verification was 
required before the loan was provided.
Ms H responded to our adjudicators view and requested an ombudsmans decision. She 
reiterated that she didnt think the checks carried out before the loan was provided were 
adequate. She said the loan was having a negative impact on her health and that it had 
affected her credit file meaning she couldnt get a mortgage. 
Ms H also said that the loan was cancelled within two weeks and that she didnt receive a 
statement of account as was required by law. She said that even though she had spiralling 
debts at the time she wasnt asking for any money back just that this loan be removed from 
her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Dot Dot Loans was required to 
establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H was only provided with one loan by Dot Dot Loans and this was for £300. Before the 
loan was provided, Dot Dot Loans gathered information about Ms Hs income and expenses 
and carried out a credit check. Ms H declared a monthly income of £5,000 and expenses of 
£2,550 although I note this was increased to £2,833 following the credit check. I do not find 
that this raised concerns about the affordability of the loan and given this was Ms Hs first 
loan and noting the repayment amounts compared with Ms Hs income I find the checks 
carried out were proportionate.
It isnt unusual for a consumer applying for this type of borrowing to have some adverse 
information on their credit file and this doesnt necessarily mean the loan shouldnt be 
provided. In Ms Hs case, there were historic defaults recorded but no defaults noted in the 
three years prior to the loan being provided. She had other credit commitments, but she was 
making payments towards these. In this case I do not find that the credit check resulted in 
information that would have required further checks to be carried out or meant the loan 
shouldnt have been provided.Overall, I find that the checks carried out before this loan was provided were reasonable and 
as these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find I can say Dot 
Dot Loans was wrong to provide this loan to Ms H. I note Ms Hs comments that she didnt 
receive a statement of account, however I also can see that a copy of this has been 
provided. I understand Ms H wants the entry removed from her credit file and I sympathise 
with her situation. However, Dot Dot Loans is required to provide accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies and as Ms H did take out the loan and then repaid it early, I would 
expect this to be reflected on her credit file. If Ms H is concerned that the information on her 
credit file isnt accurate she would need to raise this with Dot Dot Loans.
So, while I am sorry to hear of the upset Ms H has been caused, I do not find that I can 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Shelby Finance Ltd trading as 
Dot Dot Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman