DRN-4050624
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank plc didnt refund all the disputed cash withdrawals 
from his account made from 2016. Mr G said these cash withdrawals were made 
fraudulently by his wifes grandson, who I shall call Mr R.
 
Mr G is represented by his daughter. However, for ease of reference I shall just refer to Mr G 
throughout.  
What happened
In July 2021 Mr G went to a branch of Lloyds to take out cash to buy new beds for himself 
and his wife. He then discovered he didnt have enough funds. 
And when it was investigated it was found that his wifes grandson, Mr R had been using his 
card and PIN  for transactions some of which of no benefit to Mr G. Mr R had also set up 
online banking which only he used and turned off the facility for paper statements to be 
posted out to Mr G. Mr R made several transactions for his own benefit using the online 
banking. And he managed to use a credit card not connected with Lloyds along with further 
dealings with Mr Gs wifes finances as well. 
Mr G and his wife are elderly with several incapacitating health conditions and do not have a 
computer or mobile phone to do anything like banking online and are not IT literate. In order 
to help them out with daily shopping etc, Mr G permitted Mr R to use his card and PIN for 
day to day shopping from about 2016. Mr G said he had no idea Mr R had set up online 
banking. Mr G said he simply thought the bank had stopped sending out bank statements 
when he failed to receive them by post, so he never checked his account from the time he 
stopped receiving statements. 
Lloyds refunded all the online transaction in the sum of £3,910.00. But it said it would only 
refund the debit card transactions for the last 13 months which amounted to £550.00. The 
credit card company refunded all of the transactions made by Mr R. So, Mr G is complaining 
about the lack of refund of any of the debit card transactions from 2016 up to the 13-month 
limit as detailed by Lloyds.
Mr G also said the service he and his daughter received in trying to investigate this was 
significantly difficult and distressing, having to attend the branch for a whole day without 
recourse to toilet facilities or refreshments given Covid restrictions, then having to attend the 
branch yet again, having to check five years worth of statements which then wasnt actioned 
and countless extremely long repeated telephone calls. Then there were problems in 
sending out a debit card for his daughter to use, Lloyds instead sent it out in the name of Mr 
Gs wife, plus there were mistakes made in cancelling and refunding varying direct debits 
too. Lloyds admitted its service could have been better and paid Mr G a total of £183.00 
compensation to include £120 for the lack of service, telephone costs of £48.00, the 
additional branch visit of £10/00 plus £5.00 postage costs.
As Mr G remained dissatisfied especially with the lack of a full refund of all the debit card 
transactions from 2016, he brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think it should be upheld.  As Mr G didnt agree, his complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 March 2023 and I said the following:
Im not upholding the substantive part of this complaint but I am intending to uphold it 
for more compensation given the lack of service which Mr G received from Lloyds 
and the distress and upset that caused him, given the very worrying situation in 
which he found himself.
I also appreciate Mr G will be very disappointed with my decision, so Ill now explain 
why Ive come to it. I can see that the online transactions have been refunded by 
Lloyds and it also sorted out the correct amount of the refund on the Direct Debits. 
So, I shall be dealing with the issue of the debit card transactions primarily here. 
 
The regulations governing disputed transaction are called the Payment Service 
Regulations (PSRs). The 2009 regulations cover transactions up to 2018 and the 
2017 regulations cover disputed transactions from 2018. In both set of regulations 
(since both cover the length of time of Mr Gs disputed transactions occurred), a 
consumer such as Mr G here is only entitled to a refund if they report the 
transaction(s) without undue delay and no later than 13 months. So, if as Lloyds 
has said here, that it wont investigate transactions over 13 months ago, we generally 
feel this fair as its solely in the discretion of Lloyds make this decision.
 
I do understand that Mr G is elderly with several significant health conditions and that 
Mr R had turned off the request for paper statements to be sent out to Mr G, without 
Mr Gs knowledge, so Mr G couldnt check his account. However, I do feel that Mr G 
should have been a little more proactive in ascertaining from Lloyds why he was no 
longer receiving bank statements for his account which in turn might have alerted Mr 
G and indeed Lloyds earlier as to what Mr R was doing. I do appreciate the push for 
everything to be paperless and online by all banks, but they continue to provide the 
facility for statements to be posted out too. They cant operate under the regulations 
without permitting the customer to access their own statements. So, although Mr G 
might have honestly thought it had simply stopped providing statements, I dont think 
the burden of responsibility of this, falls on Lloyds. So, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for Lloyds to abide by the 13-month refund limit for these debit card 
transactions.
Mr G gave his card and PIN to Mr R in order to do day to day shopping for him. That 
means under the PSRs Mr G gave his consent to the execution of the varying 
payment transactions by having Mr R do them for him using his card and PIN. That 
means Mr Rs use of Mr Gs card and PIN was authorised by Mr G. Whilst we now 
know Mr R grossly exceeded Mr Gs authority and consent, that sadly doesnt mean 
those payment transactions are then unauthorised under the PSRs.
Any bank, including Lloyds, is also required under the PSRs to promptly and 
accurately execute any authorised payment order, such as making debit card 
payments as Mr R did here. Therefore, even though Mr R was greatly exceeding the 
authority Mr G gave him, Lloyds was doing nothing wrong in permitting those 
transactions to occur.  Lastly although banks are under a duty to notice a significant change in the pattern of 
transactions, before they can be liable for refunds, they also need to be told about 
the relevant issues. I can see once Lloyds was aware of the behaviour of Mr R, then 
they took steps to shut down his access via online banking and cancel the cards that 
he could use. I also appreciate police investigations are ongoing with Mr R and the 
CPS are considering whether to charge him. And then it will be for any subsequent 
prosecution to find Mr R liable to refund Mr R. Im afraid the outcome of the police 
investigation and possible prosecution wont change the banks liability to refund Mr 
G, that will be for Mr R to do so should the court direct that. Just because a customer 
has been defrauded in the manner which Mr R allegedly behaved towards Mr G 
doesnt then always put the onus on the bank to refund regardless. Its not the banks 
responsibility that Mr R abused the trust of Mr G. More so given its not in dispute that 
Mr G gave Mr R his card and PIN to use. 
Therefore, I dont consider Lloyds has done anything wrong in only refunding the 
transactions within the 13-month rule in the sum of £550.00.
However, I do consider Lloyds customer service to Mr G and his daughter fell well 
below the standard I would have expected given the severity of Mr Gs situation. But 
as Mr G is the customer here, I can only consider his distress and upset and not the 
time and trouble of his daughter who has helped him get to the bottom of everything. 
Lloyds has admitted its service fell short but I dont consider the compensation it paid 
of £120.00 (plus varying telephone and postal costs) is enough considering the 
delays from July 2021 to the date of its final response letter of 8 February 2022 to be 
fair. 
There was a significant amount of repetition required as the complaint was passed to 
varying people, several excessively long telephones calls and one day where Mr G 
and his daughter were in the branch for the entire day and given Covid restrictions at 
the time, unable to access toilet facilities or refreshments. That wasnt necessarily 
Lloyds fault given the restrictions but requiring them to be in the branch for such a 
long time wasnt necessary. It also messed up a new card for Mr Gs daughter to use 
on his account issuing it in the name of Mr Gs wife instead, causing yet more 
frustration. 
Therefore, I consider the compensation should be increased to £500.00 in total 
excluding the telephone and postal costs. So that means I intend to require Lloyds to 
pay a further £380.00 compensation.
Lloyds said they accepted my provisional decision. Whilst Mr Gs representative said he was 
disappointed with the outcome, Mr G also accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again and in the absence of any additional points to consider from either 
party and indeed both parties agreement to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the views detailed in my provisional decision. My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part solely for an 
increase in compensation. 
I now require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr G a further sum of £380.00 compensation for the 
distress and upset its lack of service caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman