DRN-2683204
The complaint
Mr D complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) lent to him 
irresponsibly. He also says he wasnt made aware of the interest and charges that would 
apply on early repayment of his loan. 
What happened
Mr D took an instalment loan for £1,200 on 22 February 2020. The repayments of £200 were 
scheduled over 12 months, and Mr D repaid the loan early on 13 March 2020. 
The adjudicator who assessed the complaint didnt think it was wrong to have granted the 
instalment loan. She thought that the checks completed by Savvy were proportionate and 
from what she could see the loan wasnt irresponsibly lent.
The adjudicator also thought that Savvy had clearly outlined the terms for early repayment of 
the loan when it was lent. So, she didnt think Savvy had acted unfairly when Mr D repaid his 
loan early.   
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicator and has asked for the case to be reviewed further. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy had to assess Mr Ds application for borrowing to check if he could afford to pay back 
the amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Savvys checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments and Mr Ds 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Savvy should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include: 
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
At the time the loan was lent, Savvy was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if 
they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or 
ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
did Savvy lend responsibly?
The loan (£1,200) was due to be repaid through twelve monthly instalments of £200. The 
income (£3,627) and expenditure (£2,356.73) used by Savvy in its lending decision was 
based on what Mr D declared and verified by what it could see through a credit check. 
Savvy asked about commitments for rent/mortgage, housekeeping and bills, transport, 
socialising/entertainment costs, child care and ongoing debt repayments. Considering the 
expenditure used by Savvy in its assessment, this left a disposable income of over £1,000 
after the monthly loan payment of £200. 
In view of the level of lending, the loan term and it being the first loan, I think the checks 
went far enough. Ive not seen quite enough evidence to indicate that Savvy ought to have 
built up a more detailed picture of Mr Ds finances, such as verifying everything it was told or 
completing a full review of his finances. 
Given what Mr D declared and from what Savvy could see, the income and expenditure it 
used in assessing the loan seemed to be a reasonable reflection of his circumstances. And 
the information Savvy gathered shows it that Mr D would likely to be able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to paying.  
Looking at all this together, I dont think that Savvy was wrong to lend. I think its checks were 
proportionate and suggested the loan would be affordable and sustainable.    
early repayment of the loan  did Savvy apply interest fairly? 
The pre-contract documentation set out the annual and daily interest rate. It also provided 
details of how it would calculate the repayment and explained that no charge would apply for 
late or missed payments. Mr D subsequently accepted the terms of the loan agreement by completing the declaration. I can see that the agreement reiterated how an early repayment 
figure would be calculated.  
Had Mr D decided to withdraw from the agreement within 14 days, Savvy explained that 
Interest will be accrued at a maximum £9.60 per day. This didnt, though, apply to Mr D as 
he repaid the loan on 13 March 2020, which was more than 14 days since hed received the 
loan. Instead, Mr Ds pre agreement documentation and the agreement itself, set out that for 
early repayment:
You are entitled, at any time, by notifying us in writing or by phone and making a 
payment, to discharge your indebtedness under the agreement in full or in part. You 
must make the early repayment within 28 days after we received your notice of the 
early repayment or on or before any later date specified in the notice. We may still 
charge you up to 28 days of interest on any partial or full settlement you make within 
28 days after we received your notice.
Overall, I think that Savvy set out how it would calculate the early repayment of the loan in 
sufficiently clear terms. And the early repayment figure itself doesnt appear to be in dispute.  
I dont think therefore that Savvy asked for an unfair repayment figure when Mr D decided to 
repay the loan early. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint about his loan. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mr D. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman