DRN-2688319
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy with the delays she experienced with Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited and its decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Ms E became unwell in early 2019 suffering with breathing difficulties. She was off work for 
almost six months and returned in June. She became unwell again shortly after in October 
and hasnt returned to work since. Ms E claimed on her group income protection policy 
because of her respiratory problems  which was also causing her anxiety issues. 
She said her symptoms are so extreme that shes unable to return to work in any capacity. 
And that her GP has given her a sick note lasting 12 months in recognition of this. Ms E also 
complained that it took L&G too long to reach its decision to decline her claim and that she 
was without essentials, like food, and had to regularly visit the local Food Bank to feed 
herself and her family. She would like L&G to backdate and pay her claim. 
L&G said it declined Ms Es claim because she didnt meet the definition of incapacity 
described under the policy. It said it relied on specialists reports to reach that decision and is 
satisfied her claim was declined fairly in the circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the medical evidence suggested she 
was able to return to work in some capacity, provided reasonable adjustments were made. 
He acknowledged the GPs comments that contested these findings but felt that, overall, 
L&G declined her claim fairly as it relied on more persuasive medical evidence to do so. 
Ms E disagreed. In summary, she said that she has several medical conditions in addition to 
her asthma and linked anxiety that would preclude her from working, including; being 
wheelchair bound, shoulder problems, chronic pain, back pain, fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, 
joint pain, urinary retention, anxiety, depression and panic attacks. Ms E also said L&G and 
our investigator effectively ignored the evidence provided by her GP and occupational health 
reports which say shes unfit for work, along with her universal credit evidence. And so, its 
for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I say that because Im persuaded 
that L&G has declined Ms Es claim fairly. L&G obtained specialist medical advice on Ms Es 
condition and its perceived impact on her ability to work prior to declining her claim. This was 
around the time that the impact of COVID-19 pandemic began to materialise, and so I also 
think its understandable that there were some delays with its claims handling processes. 
Although I should highlight that even against that backdrop, I dont think the delays were 
unreasonable or excessive. And so, L&G doesnt need to anything more on this particular 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant terms that apply here are; 
Payment of this benefit will be subject to us receiving all of the following: 
i. An absence notification in the format required by us not later than the benefit start date. If 
the application for benefit in the format required by us is received more than 90 days after 
the end of the deferred period, we reserve the right to not pay benefit in respect of such 
application. 
ii. Evidence satisfactory to us that an insured member is a disabled member. For this 
purpose, no benefit will be payable if your consent or that of the insured member is required 
and such consent is not given
And; 
Disabled member means an insured member who at any time, 
i. meets the incapacity definition, and 
ii. is not engaged in any other occupation
Ive highlighted these because they set the test in terms of Ms Es incapacity and her 
functional ability. Thats to say that L&G effectively measured her claim against these 
definitions. The issue here was that Ms E, according to L&G, didnt satisfy these terms and 
so it decided that no benefit was payable. Ive carefully considered its position and I think its 
fair because Im also satisfied that shes unable to persuasively demonstrate shes 
incapacitated, or, for the purposes of L&Gs policy, disabled to a degree that shes unable to 
return to work in some capacity. 
I say that because I think the most persuasive pieces of evidence are those that were 
contemporaneous, like the independent medical examination (IME) completed by the 
consultant psychiatrist in January 2020 and the respiratory specialist who assessed Ms E 
the same month. Both specialists agreed that she was ready to return to work with some 
reasonable adjustments - which her employer agreed to make at the time. I know Ms E 
disputed the findings made by the consultant psychiatrist and also questioned his 
involvement with her case, but I think it was prudent to engage this type of specialist given 
the impact Ms Es physical symptoms were having on her mental health. 
Ms E described feeling suicidal and feelings of anxiety attached to her respiratory issues. 
And so, I thought it fair that L&G select this type of specialist to gain a better understanding 
of her ability to return to work. The consultant psychiatrist suggested Ms Es self-reported 
symptoms seemed inconsistent with how she presented that day. His report noted she was 
able to speak without losing her breath and said; 
unfortunately, I dont feel we have a picture of someone who is too ill to work, rather, 
someone who could work with reasonable adjustments   
Ms E, following the report, also agreed that her mental health problems were not a barrier to 
her returning to work and that it is her asthma and the associated symptoms that are the 
problem. I understand the argument Ms E made there, but I should perhaps also highlight 
that she described on her claim form the impact her poor mental health was having on her 
overall. And so, I think it was appropriate for L&G to explore this further and reasonable to 
rely on this medical evidence in the way it did. Ms E underwent a further assessment with a respiratory specialist, which initially suggested 
she was too unwell to work because of the symptoms she presented during the meeting. 
And it was because of the two differing opinions of these specialists which caused the delay 
in L&G giving her an answer to her claim in good time. I think its important to recognise this 
because although Ms E described how this impacted the household finances, I dont think it 
could have reasonably been avoided. L&G was entitled to verify her claim and given it had 
received differing accounts about her functional and cognitive abilities, I think it 
understandable that it would want to investigate further.
For the reasons Ive explained, and the backdrop of COVID-19, I dont think L&G took an 
inordinate amount of time testing the medical evidence and so I dont uphold that part of Ms 
Es complaint either. It took around one month for it to receive additional comments from Ms 
Es treating respiratory specialist. L&G compared the symptoms shed reported, such as not 
being able to walk more than 10 meters, without the need to sit down and use her prescribed 
inhaler, with information shed provided to the occupational health professional in November 
2019. The occupational health report said Mr Es breathing problems were brittle and that 
she moderate to severe symptoms of affected mood and anxiety. But this was in the context 
of her self-reported symptoms. It appears that assessments within clinical conditions and 
with associated specialists contrast these findings and I find that more persuasive. 
Ms E was on holiday with her family at the time of the occupational health assessment, 
during which, it was reported that she had the functional capacity to go on excursions, and 
other activities. L&G said this was inconsistent with the symptoms described in that report 
and I agree. Ms E said she utilised wheelchair facilities, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
this happened. 
L&G presented these findings, along with some additional questions, to Ms Es respiratory 
specialist and asked whether this accurately represented her presentation the day she was 
physically assessed in January 2020. The specialist commented this was an odd choice to 
make for someone that had displayed symptoms in the way Ms E did the day of her 
assessment. The specialist also highlighted Ms Es spirometry readings and echo 
cardiogram showed no abnormalities. The respiratory specialist decided that, based on this 
new evidence, Ms E was well enough to return to work within four weeks and with some 
reasonable adjustments in place. It was suggested that her employer arrange for Ms E to 
have a desk on the ground floor to avoid any unnecessary physical exertion that could 
potentially irritate her symptoms. 
This was a particularly persuasive piece of evidence although I accept Ms E refutes these 
findings. L&G considered this report, in conjunction with the other IME findings produced by 
the consultant psychiatrist, and felt there was enough persuasive medical evidence to 
decline her claim. I know Ms E has produced a letter from her GP which gives a summary of 
all her medical conditions to demonstrate her incapacity, but I dont find it persuasive enough 
to successfully challenge the findings of both specialists involved with her care. I say that 
because those specialists are more suited to respond to the issues presented as part of this 
claim. I think its also important to note that this claim is about Ms Es asthma and associated 
anxiety preventing her from working. Any other medical conditions are not party to this 
complaint and Ive not considered them as part of my final decision. Should there be other 
medically linked barriers preventing to Ms Es return to work, they would need to be 
considered separately. 
Overall, I think L&G has applied the appropriate weight on the available medical evidence to 
decline her claim. Its important to note that L&G isnt saying Ms E is being dishonest about 
being unwell, but, it is saying that she has a greater functional and cognitive capacity than 
perhaps she even realised. Ms E hasnt been able to successfully demonstrate that shes a disabled member because of her respiratory and connected anxiety problems, or that shes 
incapacitated to such a degree that shes precluded from working.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman