DRN-2938066
The complaint
Mrs L says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her loans that she couldnt 
afford.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Mrs L six instalment loans as follows:
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
122/03/2017 01/06/2017 3 £200 £125.86
203/07/2017 31/10/2017 3 £500 £273.06
331/10/2017 09/02/2018 4 £300 £147.00
421/02/2018 31/05/2018 6 £250 £113.66
531/05/2018 27/11/2018 6 £500 £199.33
631/12/2018 30/08/2019 6 £400 £165.86
When Mrs L wasnt able to resolve her complaint directly with Mr Lender she brought it to us 
and one of our adjudicators investigated.  
Our adjudicator didnt feel that shed seen enough to say it was unfair that Mr Lender had 
provided loans 1 - 4 to Mrs L. But she thought that by loan 5 proportionate checks would 
most likely have shown that Mrs L was having problems managing her money. 
And by loan 6, our adjudicator felt that Mrs Ls overall pattern of borrowing suggested she 
had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
So our adjudicator felt that Mr Lender ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mrs L 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay loans 5 and 6 and they shouldnt have been 
provided. 
Our adjudicator set out detailed instructions about the way she thought Mr Lender should 
settle the complaint. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter and asked for the case 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In particular, in respect of loans 5 and 6, it asked for the 
following points to be taken into consideration, which I have summarised here: 
Mrs L advised she was repaying £223 to other lenders and Mr Lender factored this 
into her income/ outgoings assessment which resulted in loan 5 being sustainable. 
Loan 6 decreased in value, was approved more than a month after the previous loan 
was repaid and the amount being paid towards other loans decreased - this 
demonstrates that Mrs L was not reliant on Mr Lenders service.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mrs L could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint.
As far as I can see, Mrs L is happy to accept what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loans 1 - 4. Ive independently reviewed these loans and 
I agree with our adjudicator.  So I dont think I need to say more about these loans.Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Mr Lender to provide loan 5. Heres 
why I say this.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mrs L. It asked her to provide 
details of her income and to tell Mr Lender what she normally spent each month. It took into 
account the amount that Mrs L said she was spending on other credit commitments, 
including spending on other short term loans. It also carried out checks on Mrs Ls credit file 
before agreeing to lend to her. Mr Lender said it worked out that the loan it provided 
shouldve been affordable for Mrs L.
Ive carefully taken into account everything that Mr Lender has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. 
The fact that Mrs L had repaid all her previous loans without any apparent financial difficulty 
didnt mean that she had been able to repay them in a way that was sustainable  or that 
loan 5 would be sustainably affordable for her. And whilst I've noted that Mr Lender says that 
it could only rely on the information it was provided with at the time of its credit check, I think 
Mr Lender will be aware that different credit searches can show different results  so I think it 
wouldve understood that its own credit checks didnt necessarily show a persons whole 
credit record.   
I think that Mr Lender shouldve carried out more thorough checks into Mrs Ls financial 
situation before agreeing to provide loan 5. This was Mrs Ls fifth loan in a row and there had 
been no significant gaps in lending since shed taken out her first loan more than a year 
earlier. She took out loan 5 at the same time as she repaid loan 4  and borrowed twice as 
much as the loan shed just paid. Mrs L was planning to repay the loan over 6 months and, 
by the end of the loan term, Mrs L would've been borrowing from Mr Lender for around 
20 months. She was now asking to borrow her largest loan to date  an amount that was 
more than double the amount of the loan she had taken when she first started borrowing 
from Mr Lender.
 I think Mr Lender shouldve realised that what Mrs L was saying about her financial situation 
was at odds with her borrowing  and that she was likely having money problems. I dont 
think it was any longer reasonable for Mr Lender to base its lending decision just on the 
information Mrs L was providing or what the checks it did showed. I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to do further checking to verify the true state of Mrs Ls finances 
before agreeing to lend loan 5.
And had it done so, I think Mr Lender would likely have become aware that by the time she 
asked for loan 5, Mrs L already had, as our adjudicator mentioned, a number of credit 
accounts and she was regularly committed to several other high cost credit lenders and 
already making repayments to at least three other short term lenders.
I think that this overall picture of her financial situation showed that Mrs L was struggling with 
debt. Ive kept in mind that Mr Lender was required to take a borrower focussed approach to 
its lending  in other words, it needed to think carefully about whether the loan was 
affordable for Mrs L on top of her other monthly commitments over the whole loan term 
without putting her in a position where she might need to borrow further to pay it. 
Based on what I think its likely a proportionate check wouldve revealed to Mr Lender, I think 
it shouldve realised that loan 5  and any further lending - wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mrs L. So thats why Im planning on upholding Mrs Ls complaint about loan 5.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mrs L, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ls case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because: 
at this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mrs L was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. She had taken out six loans  without any significant breaks in 
lending. By the time she asked for loan 6, even if I disregard the gap of a month or so 
inbetween Mrs L paying loan 1 and taking out loan 2, she had nonetheless been 
paying Mr Lender loans more or less continuously for around 18 months in a row. 
Although loan 6 was for less than loan 5, it was still twice the amount of loan 1. And 
I dont think the gap between paying loan 5 and taking out loan 6 was long enough to 
suggest that Mrs L had put her finances in order during this period or that the smaller 
amount she had declared being spent on other short term loans suggested any 
significant improvement in her financial situation overall. I think the variable loan 
amounts and occasional short gaps in lending reflected the fact that her finances 
werent stable  not that she wasnt reliant on this type of lending. I think by loan 6 a 
pattern of dependency was apparent in respect of her lending.
At this point Mr Lender ought to have known that Mrs L was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs L was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Mrs Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think what I've said is borne out by the fact that Mrs L had multiple other high cost loans 
outstanding with other lenders when she applied for loan 6  I've seen information that 
suggests she was paying at least nine other lenders around this time. And it looks to me like 
she used loan 6 to repay some of that borrowing and she also took out other new lending the 
same day that she started loan 6. 
In my view, Mrs L lost out when Mr Lender provided loan 6 because this loan had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ls indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit over an 
extended period of time. 
And the number of loans and the sheer length of time over which Mrs L borrowed was likely 
to have negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these high-cost loans. 
So Im also planning on upholding Mrs Ls complaint about loan 6 as well as loan 5.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mrs L and Mr Lender have told me they have nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I still think its fair to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mrs L, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs L may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly if a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs L in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs L would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Mr Lender needs to do.
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs L towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5 and 6, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs L which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay the sum of A + B to Mrs L.
D. Remove any adverse entries from Mrs Ls credit file for loan 5. The number of loans 
taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded about this loan is 
adverse. So all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mrs Ls credit file.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs L asks 
Mr Lender for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, Mr Lender should 
provide this. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint about loans 5 and 6 and PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman