DRN-3397787
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has treated him unfairly when handling a claim 
made on his landlords buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both AXA and Mr R. It has been ongoing 
for a number of years and I dont intend to list in detail everything that has happened. But in 
summary:
- Mr R discovered an escape of water at his rental property in April 2019. He says it 
was a burst mains water supply and the kitchen was like a fountain when first 
discovered. He instructed a local emergency plumber to identify and stop the water 
leak. A temporary cold-water feed/tap was connected and all other water sources in 
the property were disconnected at this point. 
- Mr R says damaged occurred to most of the downstairs of the property and strip out 
works were completed. This included the removal of the kitchen as well as the plaster 
from all walls  he said the level of damage combined with the age of the plaster 
meant it all needed taking back instead of just removing the lower level plaster.
- Mr R notified AXA of his claim 10 April 2019. He provided a tenancy extension 
agreement so show the property had not been vacant for more than 30 days when 
the leak was discovered and asked that AXA pay his claim for damage. AXA visited 
the property on 16 April 2019 and completed an initial assessment of the damage 
and proposed schedule of works (SOW) together with an estimate for drying time.
- Mr R was provided with AXAs SOW and given a blank template to allow him to seek 
quotes from local tradesman to complete the repair. Mr R questioned if all the work 
he expected to be completed was included in AXAs SOW. He said he couldnt see it 
had covered the kitchen wall units, the tiled floor or confirmed if all the damaged 
laminate and skirting in the lounge would be covered. He agreed to provide 2 quotes 
from his own tradesman for a comparison.
- Unfortunately Mr R became unwell and was unable to provide the details of his 
quotes until October 2019. The estimated cost and work needed on both quotes was 
considerably higher than AXAs. 
- IN January 2020, AXA had questions over the level of strip out works completed and 
asked that Mr R provide evidence from the plumber that visited the site when the 
damage was first noted to confirm both the cause of damage and why the work that 
was carried out was needed.
- In February 2020, Mr R provided confirmation from the plumber that visited the 
property when the leak was discovered which said this was for an escape of water. 
No information about the extent of damage was really provided and AXA still had 
question about this to validate the claim.
- In November 2020, AXA closed Mr Rs claim. It had been waiting on further 
information to help validate the claim and when this wasnt provided the claim was 
closed. Mr R chased AXA for an update on the claim in September 2021 and it was 
reopened at this point. AXA asked for more information again at this point, repeating 
previous requests to help it validate the claim.
- Mr R complained to AXA about its handling of the claim. It agreed it could have done 
things differently and apologised for this but took no further steps. The complaint was 
brought to this service and our investigator felt AXA had added delays to the claim 
process and Mr R had lost out as a result. He asked that it pay Mr R £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and the rent he would have 
been paid from May 2019 until October 2021 when AXA first issued its final 
response. He also asked that it consider Mr Rs claim fairly with further evidence to 
be provided by Mr R, including information about any deterioration in the state of the 
property since the claim was first raised and evidence to support the level of damage 
prior to the strip out of the property.
- AXA has continued to try and progress the claim but said it has been unable to get 
information needed from Mr R. It hasnt confirmed if it agrees with the 
recommendations of our investigator but highlighted it will only be able to validate the 
claim if Mr R provides the information it needs.
- Mr R accepted the outcome proposed and highlighted again the impact this claim 
and complaint has had on his health.
Because AXA has not confirmed it agrees with our investigators proposed outcome, the 
complaint has been passed to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 September 2022. I explained I was 
planning on upholding the complaint but that I thought the award mad by our investigator 
needed to be amended. I said the following:
I agree that there have been large periods of time during the handling of this claim where it 
appears AXA could have done more. And when it has failed to do so, it has added delay to a 
claim that had already been impacted by Mr Rs health. But I dont think it is reasonable to 
believe that AXA should have done more during the initial six months that the claim was 
raised. 
It isnt unreasonable to expect a claimant to show proof of loss or confirm what they feel the 
damage is. AXA clearly recognised Mr Rs health in its correspondence when looking for an 
update on the SOW. I think it showed understanding here but that it wanted to get the claim 
resolved as soon as possible. At this point it was Mr R who was contesting the work included 
on the schedule and without this being proven, I think AXA could have explained that in the 
absence of this, it might have needed to make a claim decision based on what had been 
provided.
Instead though AXA continued to chase for the SOW which were provided in October 2019. 
It wasnt until after the quotes had been returned that AXA had additional questions. It is fair 
to expect some questions to validate the claim, but I think it is reasonable to expect that it 
would have sought confirmation of the cause of damage sooner. This is the first question to 
identify if the damage is caused by an insured event. 
This wasnt questioned until January 2020 and Mr R provided confirmation of the reason for 
the damage in February 2020. AXA than continued with its previous questions to identify the 
level of damage and reasoning for the strip out of the kitchen pre the claim notification. But it failed to give an answer on the claim and closed this down in November 2020, after Mr R 
had not responded to its request for information. 
I understand why AXA felt it needed more information to understand the value of the 
damage and the claim. And Mr R needed to provide this information. But as with the initial 
delays in the SOWs being provided, Mr R had been unwell again and I think AXA could 
have let him know, that it would make a decision in the absence of anything else if this 
wasnt provided. 
The claim wasnt re-opened again until September 2021. Although I think Mr R could have 
chased the progress of the claim sooner, it is clear he has continued to struggle with his 
health and the delays in him doing this are understandable. I cant see that AXA gave a clear 
claims decision to Mr R in November 2020 or that he would have had knowledge the claim 
wasnt progressing from this point and he was left waiting and expecting the claim to be 
progressed without it having any prospect of this happening. This has clearly added delays 
to the complaint.
As Ive said, I accept that Mr R needs to do more on this claim too. To date he hasnt 
provided anything to substantiate the pre-loss condition of the property or anything to show 
that the damage caused resulted in it and all appliances needing to be stripped out. Mr R will 
need, as requested by AXA a number of times, to provide this information. If it cant be 
provided, I think AXA will need to make a decision on the claim based on what it has been 
provided previously. If Mr R is unhappy with the claim decision, he can bring a further 
complaint about this  at this point, there is no claim decision made.
Although I accept Mr R needs to do more, I dont think this alone explains the significant 
amount of time that this claim has continued for. AXA has accepted that the cause of 
damage is an escape of water and dont see any doubt that it is something covered by 
Mr Rs policy. It is only the value of the claim currently disputed with the validation of the 
damage and pre-loss condition that needs confirming. So once validated, I think AXA will 
likely need to consider the missed rent payments in line with the policy limits. However, I 
dont think it is fair that it does this in line with our investigators assessment.
Our investigator, in short said that AXA was responsible for all of the delays so it is fair this 
covers the lost rent resulting from the property not being in a lettable condition. As Ive 
explained above, I think it is more a case of six of one and half a dozen of the other when 
thinking about what has led this claim to be unresolved for the time it has. Mr R has been 
asked a number of times to provide information to allow AXA to validate his claim. He hasnt 
and although AXA could have chased this and should have notified him the claim was no 
longer open, Mr R didnt chase either. And I think he knew what he needed to provide to 
have the claim progressed. So with this in mind, I dont think it is fair to expect AXA to cover 
all lost rent payments while the claim has been ongoing. 
As Ive said, it feels like both AXA and Mr R have caused delays on this claim. With this in 
mind, I think it is fair that AXA cover 50% of the lost rental income from May 2019 until 
October 2021. 
I also think its right that AXA recognises the impact its had on Mr R when its failed to make 
a claim decision promptly and so I agree, AXA should also pay Mr R £500 in recognition of 
this.
AXA responded to say it accepted my decision.
Mr R responded to say he disagreed and didnt believe the change in proposed redress was 
fair. He explained when the house was first inspected by AXAs loss adjuster it hadnt been stripped out. He also says he provided details of the plumbers who attended the property on 
the day of the flood and that he sent photos of the damage to AXA.
He said the impact of this claim has been significant on him and he has been extremely 
unwell throughout the time it has been ongoing. He thinks AXA has caused the delays in the 
handling of his claim and hes had seven different claims handlers appointed over the time of 
the claim. Hes made dozens of phone calls and sent numerous emails to chase the 
progress of the claim but this hasnt helped to move things forward. He relies on the income 
from the property and not having this has caused huge stress. He doesnt think the outcome 
proposed is fair and has highlighted that in addition to everything else, the reinstatement 
costs for his property will have likely increased by more than 40% since this claim was first 
logged.
Mr R has asked that all of the lost rent is paid from April 2019 until September 2022, that the 
quotes for his building contractor are paid directly to him and that £5000.00 is paid for the 
distress and inconvenience of the matter. 
The complaint has been passed back to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered the evidence on this complaint and thought about the additional 
information provide by Mr R in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
Mr R has said when AXAs loss adjuster visited the property on 16 April the property had 
been untouched since the escape of water and he showed the adjuster evidence that the 
electrical appliances were beyond economical repair. But having looked at the report 
completed on this day; the photos show the house to have already been stripped out. I see 
no reason to doubt the information within the report completed that day and believe that  
when AXA was first able to see the property, the strip out had already taken place.
Im sorry that Mr R has been so unwell over the time of this claim and I understand he is still 
unwell now. But I dont think it is fair to attribute this to the claim itself. While it will be 
stressful and there has been delays added, I dont think Mr R has shown that he provided 
the information hes needed to allow AXA to progress the claim and at times delays have 
been added by his actions.
The claim hasnt been decided yet and any increase in costs to the claim for the 
reinstatement will be considered by AXA when this decision is made. So although I note 
Mr Rs comments on the increased costs to building materials over the time of this claim, it 
has no impact on my proposed outcome.
I remain satisfied that the proposed redress for lost rent is fair and reasonable and that £500 
to recognise the impact of the distress and inconvenience on Mr R is fair.
So for the reasons set out in findings included within the background to this complaint, I 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to do the following to put things right.- Pay Mr R 50% of the lost rent for his property from May 2019 until October 2021  
taking account of the applicable policy limits.
- Pay Mr R £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused with the handling of this 
complaint.
- Progress the claim and give a decision on the claim outcome. If Mr R fails to provide 
any further evidence to support his claim, it should base its decision on the 
information provided. It should consider whether a further payment for lost rent is due 
when considering the claim.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman