Page 1 of 13The complaint
Miss F complains that she faced difficulties in setting up payments to her Personal Pension 
Policy (PPP) held with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). And feels 
that the PPP was mis-sold as it wasnt fit for purpose. 
What happened
Miss F held a PPP with Prudential. In 2016, she wanted advice on consolidating her 
pensions. She also wanted good access to a PPP so she could contribute or take income 
when needed. 
In May 2016 Miss F completed a fact find. And in July 2016 she met with Prudentials 
adviser. A Suitability Report (SR) was produced in October 2016. This said that at the time 
Miss F was:
Aged 48 and in good health.
Married with three dependent children.
Self-employed - Basic rate tax-payer
Annual income £20,000 but took funds from the business if needed.
No debts
Savings for own use £30,000 and £130,000 earmarked for school fees
Planned retirement age 66  no plan to retire for several years
PPP with another provider with a value of £5,263 (started 2003)
PPP with Prudential with a value of £64,062 (started 1999)
Objective to consolidate the pension plans and resume contributions
Attitude to risk  medium risk
In the Personal circumstances and Needs and objectives sections of the SR it stated:
No plans to retire until age 66
DRN-3308994Page 2 of 13Miss F will work until she no longer has the desire to work.
Miss F was looking for advice on consolidation for greater control and a clearer 
investment strategy
There were no specific income needs at presentbut it was important to Miss F that 
access will be available in the future once she retired
Miss F would like constant access to advice to establish the most effective route of 
taking income as and when the need arises, once she reached retirement
Miss F wanted more involvement with her pensions to generate returns in line with 
her investment risk profile and growth expectations.
She would like to benefit from the smoothing formula applied to her pension to help 
minimise daily volatility. She was also seeking a multi asset investment approach 
which has the potential for growth over the medium to long term, within certain risk 
constraints.
The SR stated that the option to retain her existing plans was discussed with Miss F. And 
that this had been rejected because the providers didnt offer advice. It also stated that 
switching (here meaning moving between existing providers funds) was also considered 
but declined because Miss F wanted to consolidate her plans.
Prudentials adviser was a restricted adviser, so his advice was limited to selected Prudential 
products and other providers - unlike an independent adviser who could advise on whole 
market. 
Prudential advised Miss F to transfer her existing PPP, and the pension plan she held with 
another provider, to a Prudential Retirement Account (PRA). The charge for the initial advice 
was around £2,000.
Miss F experienced problems setting up contributions into the PRA. She said she spent 
around three months trying to pay into it. This took a lot of her time. As she felt the PRA 
couldnt easily accept her contributions in the way shed expected, Miss F felt that the PRA 
wasnt fit for purpose. This led her to consider that it had been mis-sold. So she complained 
to Prudential.
Prudential issued their final response to the complaint in April 2020. They addressed the 
following complaint points, which they didnt uphold:
Miss F felt shed been mis-sold the PRA as it wasnt fit for purpose.
Shed never been told there would be an Initial Advice Charge (IAC) for transferring 
her Prudential Pension to the PRA.
Prudential didnt agree that the poor service meant that the policy had been mis-sold. They 
said that the PRA did allow contributions to be made as and when needed. So they felt that it 
was suitable and had met Miss Fs needs and objectives. 
Prudential said that Miss F had understood that thered be a charge for the external transfer, 
but not for the internal transfer between two Prudential products. But confirmed that an Initial 
Advice Charge (IAC) would be applied for any advice to transfer. They also noted that the 
IAC had been documented in the paperwork theyd issued. And that their advisers had a 
responsibility to make customers aware of all charges. Prudential said that Miss F had Page 3 of 13confirmed shed understood the charges when she signed the application form confirming 
shed read and understood all the documents. 
Prudential offered £150 in recognition that the service Miss F had received had fallen short 
of her expectations at some point after issuing the April 2020 final response letter.
Unhappy with their response, Miss F complained to Prudential again. They issued their 
second final response letter in May 2020. Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. They 
covered the following complaint points:
Miss F didnt consider the compensation offered to be sufficient.
Theyd not been able to call her after 6pm. And the call handler was rude.
Prudential issued a third final response letter in October 2020. This letter re-visited some of 
the earlier complaint points as Miss F didnt consider that all issues had been addressed.  
Prudential upheld Miss Fs complaint that they hadnt returned her calls at the time shed 
requested. And arranged for £50 to be paid in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. 
Prudential noted that this offer made no allowance for Miss Fs other concerns.
Miss F had brought her complaint to this service before shed received the third final 
response letter from Prudential. Our investigator recommended that her complaint be 
upheld. She considered that the PPP had been mis-sold. Shed questioned whether Miss Fs 
PPP shouldve been transferred simply so Miss F could get advice on an ongoing basis. And 
whether shed needed that advice at that point, or flexibility, as she wasnt likely to draw on 
her benefits for some time. Our investigator also considered the charges. She didnt consider 
the advisers rationale was enough to justify the transfer. She recommended that Prudential 
put Miss F back as close as possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had 
been given suitable advice.
Our investigator also considered the compensation Prudential had paid for the poor service 
Miss F had experienced. And for the failure to return a call. Overall, she felt that the 
compensation paid had been fair and reasonable. 
Prudential didnt agree with our investigator. They felt that the complaint had arisen due to 
the servicing issues, not the advice. They said that their adviser had explained that he could 
only provide advice on Prudential Products and Funds. And so couldnt comment on the 
suitability of funds elsewhere or recommend a client seeks advice from an IFA unless 
Prudential didnt have a suitable solution for the client.
Prudential said Miss Fs objectives had been to consolidate her pensions and restart her 
contributions. And that this was the basis of the advice provided. They didnt agree that the 
PRA wasnt fit for purpose. And they didnt agree that it had been mis-sold. They said the 
PRA offered access to income and to make contributions as and when Miss F needed to. 
They did agree that Miss F had received poor service, which had led to it being difficult for 
her to make contributions. But they said theyd acknowledged this. And they didnt agree that 
the poor service experienced meant that the PRA had been mis-sold.
Prudential also noted that their adviser assessed Miss Fs attitude to risk (ATR) before he 
made a product recommendation, or assessing the ongoing suitability of her existing 
Prudential policy. And that this assessment, along with other discussions such as capacity 
for loss, preferred investment style and term of investment, was used to recommend a 
suitable fund. But they noted that their adviser wouldnt have completed this to assess the 
suitability of an external product or fund. They said that the switch recommendation was 
based on other objectives, for example access to ongoing advice and flexibility to access Page 4 of 13funds in the future. Prudential said that fund choice and ATR was not the driver behind this 
advice. And that it didnt form part of the complaint from Miss F. 
Prudential also said that the IAC and all other charges had been clearly explained to Miss F. 
And that if she hadnt been happy with them, she didnt have accept the charges, or use 
Prudential for advice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a review.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2020. It said:
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Although my recommended redress remains very similar to that suggested by our 
investigator, Ive altered the wording in order to enable the calculation to be processed. 
Ill consider the following issues Prudential addressed in their final response letters:
Was the PRA mis-sold?
Was the IAC clearly explained? 
The adequacy of the compensation for the servicing issues experienced. 
Was the PRA mis-sold?
Before I consider the detailed arguments Miss F and Prudential have made on this point, I 
acknowledge that Prudential consider that the mis-selling complaint has only arisen because 
of the poor service Miss F received. And while Prudential accept that the service wasnt 
ideal, they dont agree that the PRA was unsuitable for Miss F. While I understand their 
point, I dont agree that the service Miss F received has no reflection on the product 
recommended. I say this because if a product doesnt work in practice in the same way as it 
was in theory recommended for, I consider that a customer has every right to consider that 
the product wasnt actually fit for purpose. Therefore even though Miss F didnt initially 
complain that the product had been mis-sold, I consider that its reasonable for her to make 
that argument after experiencing several months of difficulties with the operation of the 
recommended policy.
I agree with our investigator that the Regulators 2008 report: Quality of Advice on Pension 
Switching should be considered for this complaint. The report provided examples of poor 
and good advice. Some examples of what the report considered unsuitable advice are:
A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have fulfilled the customers needs
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was the 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there is no evidence this option was needed)
Ill consider Miss Fs complaint with the Regulators report in mind. However, as Prudential Page 5 of 13have noted, fund choice and ATR have not driven this complaint. So I wont consider the 
funds Prudential recommended in much detail. 
Based on the information recorded in the fact find and the Suitability Report, Im satisfied 
that Miss F could afford to save for her retirement. She had no debts or mortgage. And 
enough income to maintain her standard of living. She had almost 18 years to her selected 
retirement age of 66. She had two PPPs with a total value of just under £70,000, and no 
benefits in occupational pension schemes. Based on the relatively modest level of her 
retirement savings at the time of the advice, Im satisfied that it was appropriate for Miss F to 
consider saving for retirement.
The Suitability Report recorded that Miss F was looking to consolidate her PPPs. And that 
although she had no specific income needs at present, shed want access when she did 
retire in several years time. The report also noted that Miss F wanted constant access to 
advice to establish the most efficient route of taking income as and when the need arises, 
once you get to retirement. 
Miss F told this service what her aims were for the new pension. She said she didnt need 
access to it until she reached age 66. And that: the main reason for swapping to the new 
pension was the need for flexibility in terms of contributions and the opportunity to pay by 
salary sacrifice as well.
Miss F said she experienced considerably difficulties in contributing into the new plan once it 
had been opened. She said she had trouble paying in the initial lump sum. And that she also 
had problems setting up the direct debit for the regular contributions she wanted to make. 
Miss F said she called her Prudential adviser several times but that he said it was difficult to 
set up the direct debit because it was a brand new pension scheme and they were still 
trying to sort out the computer system.  Miss F said that this went on for a number of 
months. And that the direct debit was never set up successfully. She said that in the end she 
gave up trying. She said: I have now had to take out a completely separate pension scheme 
with [provider name] due to the levels of stress that trying to deal with Prudential caused me. 
However, I had wanted to keep all of my funds in one place, but Prudential made this 
impossible.
Miss F also told this service that shed told the adviser that she wanted the pension to be 
flexible in respect of contributions because she was working in a variety of different 
capacities at the time. Our investigator asked Prudential why the PRA didnt allow salary 
sacrifice contributions. Prudential told this service: Fluctuating monthly amounts cannot be 
paid into the Retirement Account plan as a regular monthly contribution.  It needs to be a set 
amount, for example of £300.00 per month.  This can be increased or decreased but cannot 
fluctuate on a monthly basis.  This is because the system needs to know in advance the 
exact amount of the monthly payment. Prudential noted that this point was covered in the 
Section 6 of the PRAs terms and conditions regarding this  Section 6. This states:
6.1 Up to your 75th birthday, we can accept regular and single contributions into your 
Retirement Account made:
6.1.1 by you;
6.1.2 by your employer;
6.1.3 on your behalf by a third party.
6.2 We can accept transfer payments and drawdown transfers before and after your 75th 
birthday.Page 6 of 13Section 8 of the terms and conditions also states that: Regular contributions can be paid 
annually or monthly by direct debit. Single contributions can be paid by cheque, bank 
transfer or any other method which is acceptable to us from time to time.
Prudential told this service that Miss F wouldve had to complete and sign an application 
form and direct debit mandate in order to make a personal regular contribution. She 
wouldve needed to confirm how much shed like to contribute each month and the date it 
was to be collected. Prudential couldnt confirm what information had been provided to Miss 
F at the point of sale to explain the contribution process. They said that meetings at that time 
were not recorded. But they said that it shouldve been explained that varying monthly 
amounts cant be paid into the PRA as a regular monthly contribution. And that a set amount 
per month was needed. They said that this amount could be increased or decreased, but 
that it couldnt fluctuate on a monthly basis because the system needs to know in advance 
the exact amount of the monthly payment.  
Based on what Prudential and Miss F have told this service and the documentary evidence 
provided, Im not satisfied that the adviser considered how important it was to Miss F that the 
recommended pension plan could easily accept contributions. And Im not persuaded the 
adviser made Miss F aware about the contribution process. Or that varying monthly amounts 
cant be paid into the PRA. Or that it couldnt accept salary sacrifice payments. I dont 
consider that the terms and conditions make this clear either. Ive come to this conclusion as 
Ive seen the lengthy email exchanges between Miss F and Prudential when she was trying 
to make contributions. She is clearly surprised and unhappy at how difficult the process was.
From what Ive seen, the PRA wasnt suitable for Miss F given her main objective was: the 
need for flexibility in terms of contributions and the opportunity to pay by salary sacrifice as 
well. I say this not only because of the email exchanges referenced above, but because 
Miss F told this service that the same adviser whod recommended the PRA to her told her it 
was: a brand new pension scheme and they were still trying to sort out the computer 
system. So Im persuaded that the adviser shouldve considered this point when he was 
making his initial recommendation to Miss F. Im satisfied that the adviser who 
recommended the PRA to Miss F knew that she wanted flexibility of contributions, but also 
knew that the PRA wasnt yet in a position to provide that flexibility. Therefore  on the basis 
that the recommendation didnt meet Miss Fs principle objective - I dont consider that the 
recommendation to switch to the PRA was suitable. However, Ive also considered the other 
reasons the PRA was recommended.
Having read the Suitability Report, Ive not persuaded there was any pressing need for either 
accessing income or constant access to advice until Miss F retired. And although Miss F 
did state that she wanted to consolidate her PPPs, I cant see that Prudentials adviser 
discussed with Miss F that this objective wasnt necessarily a particularly important one. 
Miss F already had a PPP with Prudential. Ive seen no evidence that this couldnt have 
been used to meet her objective of resuming contributions. Miss F told this service that she 
had made contributions into that arrangement on an ad hoc basis in the past. And, as Ive 
noted, other objectives shed mentioned to the adviser werent particularly pressing. The 
switch to the PRA would incur an IAC that wouldnt be levied if Miss F didnt switch away 
from her existing arrangements. So Ive considered whether the recommendation to switch 
to the PRA was justified for other reasons.
Aside from noting that their recommendation would meet Miss Fs long-term objectives, 
Prudential also noted in the Suitability Report that the recommended PRA would allow Miss 
F to invest in a smoothed investment style which was a key objective. 
I acknowledge that the PRA did appear to meet Miss Fs objectives better than her existing Page 7 of 13Prudential PPP in certain respects. But I dont consider that the adviser made clear to Miss F 
that she would be paying considerably higher charges overall (IAC and ongoing charges) in 
return for potentially limited benefits to her at that point in time. As I said earlier, Miss F didnt 
really need to consolidate her PPPs. And she didnt need access to retirement advice or 
access to income for potentially another 17 or 18 years. I acknowledge that Miss F preferred 
to invest in a smoothed fund to minimise daily volatility. But Im not persuaded that this, in 
itself, was enough of a reason for the internal switch to be recommended. I note that the 
application of the IAC, following the switch to the PRA, itself caused a fairly volatile daily 
movement. 
As noted above when I discussed the Regulators 2008 report: Quality of Advice on Pension 
Switching, it isnt appropriate for a business to recommend a pension incurring extra 
product costs without good reason. And even if all of the points Prudentials adviser used in 
the Suitability Report were correct, it remains the advisers responsibility to give Miss F 
suitable advice. I dont agree that just because Miss F said she wanted to consolidate her 
PPPs the adviser shouldve ruled out retaining her existing plans. This is because I dont 
consider there were enough benefits from the recommended switch to support the size of 
the IAC. This is especially true as the PRA didnt have the contribution flexibility Miss F said 
she needed.
I also consider that the adviser shouldve considered how far away Miss F was from her 
chosen retirement age. So I also dont agree that was any need at the time of the advice to 
make the switch in order to have access to income options in years to come. Miss F couldve 
waited till she reached retirement age and decided at that point if she still wanted to switch in 
order to access advice on the most efficient route of taking income. At this point shed have 
the benefit of knowing exactly what she wanted.
The Suitability Report recorded that Miss F was: disappointed with the level of contact, 
service and performance from her existing plans. And that she wanted: constant access to 
advice to establish the most efficient route of taking income as and when the need arises, 
once you get to retirement. I acknowledge that the adviser did consider the possibility of 
retaining the existing plans. But that this was: discounted due to the fact that these firms do 
not offer advice. I dont consider that this was enough of a reason to rule out retaining the 
existing plans. Both the existing plans had other funds available which Miss F couldve 
switched into, potentially without charge. So although Miss F said she was disappointed with 
the performance, other options were available to her without switching. Im also not 
persuaded that Miss Fs only option to access the advice that she said she would eventually 
need was to pay for ongoing advice immediately through the PRA. Even if she wanted 
advice straightaway  and Im not clear that the Suitability Report reflects that she did  she 
couldve accessed advice in other ways while retaining her existing plans. 
I also note that the PRA was more expensive than the existing arrangements. The total 
annual charges were 1.1% each year (before the cost of advice) in the PRA. Both Miss Fs 
existing plans had lower annual charges. 
Based on the above, I dont consider the reasons given for the recommendation to switch 
were good enough to justify it. I acknowledge that if Miss F hadnt switched she wouldve 
either had to make her own investment decisions or pay for advice independently. But I dont 
consider that this was enough to justify the switch. 
I also note that Miss F has actually opened a new pension plan with another provider as 
shed found the PRA simply too problematic. This meant that she wasnt able to meet her 
objective of consolidating her pension plans. Based on all the evidence, Im satisfied that the 
PRA was mis-sold as it didnt meet Miss Fs requirements. Page 8 of 13Was the IAC clearly explained? 
Miss F complained that the IAC hadnt been clearly explained. She said she didnt 
appreciate that it would be charged on an internal transfer from her Prudential PPP to the 
PRA. She said: I understood that this would only be due on any monies transferred in from 
other schemes  not from Prudentials own products.
Prudential said that the PRA application form shows there is an IAC for each transfer. They 
also noted that the charges were documented in the Suitability Report and the Summary of 
Advice Charges. And said that Miss F wouldve also been given a charging brochure as part 
of the advice process, as their advisers hold a responsibility to make their customers aware 
of all charges. Prudential also said that when Miss F signed the application form she had 
agreed that shed read and understood all the documents. And that shed at this point 
agreed to proceed with the advice and all charges.
Ive reviewed the documentation Prudential gave to Miss F at the time of the advice. I can 
see that the IAC was specified, for example, in the 11 October 2016 Illustration details. This 
said: 
Estimated transfer amount £64,062.07 [the internal transfer]
We will pay your Financial Adviser 2.50% which equates to £1,601.55. This is based on the 
transfer value given, the actual amount could vary depending on the transfer amount 
received.
Estimated transfer amount £5,263.81 [the external transfer]
We will pay your Financial Adviser 2.50% which equates to £131.60. This is based on the 
transfer value given, the actual amount could vary depending on the transfer amount 
received.
Based on this, and the other documentation Ive seen, Ive seen no evidence that Prudential 
ever indicated that the internal transfer wouldnt incur the IAC. So Im unable to uphold this 
part of the complaint.
Based on all the evidence, Im satisfied that Prudential did clearly explain the IAC.  
The adequacy of the compensation for the servicing issues experienced 
Prudential have already acknowledged that Miss F experienced issued when trying to set up 
contributions to the PRA. Theyve offered £150 in compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused her.
Miss F doesnt consider that this compensation is enough for the poor service she received. 
She said she spent around 80 to 100 hours trying to sort her contributions out. 
Ive considered what both Prudential and Miss F have said about the issues she faced. And 
Ive looked at the documentation provided. Im satisfied that Miss F had to spend a lot of time 
trying to arrange the contributions she wanted to pay into the PRA. And I can see that this 
wouldve been stressful and time consuming. However, Prudential acknowledged that the 
service Miss F had received had fallen short and offered £150 in respect of the difficulties 
shed faced. Under the circumstances, I consider that this is fair compensation for the 
difficulties Miss F experienced. 
Prudential have also acknowledged that they didnt call Miss F back when they said they Page 9 of 13would. Theyve offered £50 in recognition of the trouble and upset this caused. 
But Miss F i s also unhapp y with how an agent spoke to h er during a call. Ive not been able 
to listen to the call in question. But I have seen the call note, which records what was 
discusse d. Thi s notes th at Prudentials agent couldnt complete the identification process. 
Miss F was in a public place at the time and therefore wasnt comfortable answering the 
questions posed. She said that the agent abruptly ended the call.
I can understand why the call wouldve been difficult, given the circumstances. But as Ive 
not been able to listen to it I dont know what exactly was said, or how it was said. So whilst I 
accept Miss Fs recollection of what happened, I cant verify the tone of the call or what was 
said exactly. So Ive not been able to evidence any rudeness. Based on the evidence 
available to me, I consider Prudentials offer of £50 here is fair.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Miss F should be put as closely as possible i nto the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Miss F would have remained with her previous provider/her original 
Prudential plan. However I cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the 
policy with the previous provider would have been worth. 
Response to my provisional decision
Prudential didnt agree with my provisional decisio n. They made the following points:
their current advice policy is to consider the relative costs of the recommended
pension against the cost of a stakeholder pension for switching. They said that
stakeholder pensions are 1.5% reducing to 1%. And therefore not notably cheaper
and do not provide the flexibility referred to in Miss Fs objectives.
Miss F wanted access to advice, flexibility/pension flexibility, fund performance. She
was made aware of all the costs for the advice. And she chose to proceed. So they
didnt agree that the new pension had been set up without good reason.
They disagreed with my statement: However, as Prudential have noted fund choice
and Attitude To Risk have not driven this complaint. They said they have to factor
this in in order to consider whether the advice is suitable or not. And they said that
cost alone should never be a driver for advice.
They disagreed that Miss F had mentioned her need for flexibility in terms of the
contributions being made.
They noted that Miss Fs partner received identical advice at the same time. And that
he had raised no complaints about the advice.
They said that just because Miss F had transferred away from Prudential, that didnt
imply that the product wasnt suitable for her or had been mis-sold to her. They
agreed shed had a poor service experience from the start of 2020. And felt it could
be argued that if someone receives a poor service they will transfer away from that
provider. But noted that Miss F had raised no complaints for four years before 2020
about the service shed received. And she hadnt raised any concerns about mis-
selling due to concerns about the fitness of the product or charges in that time.Page 10  of 13In summary, they felt the rationale for transferring had been correct.
Miss F said that she genuinely didnt believe she was told about the charges to change her 
pension scheme from one Prudential scheme to another. And that if she had been told about 
the costs, she categorically wouldnt have paid to change to a pension scheme which was no 
use to her because she couldnt pay into it. She didnt feel that the redress Id recommended 
would cover the money she was charged in moving to a scheme which was totally unfit for 
purpose.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill consider Prudentials new points first. 
I accept Prudentials point that the stakeholder pension wasnt notably cheaper on the face 
of it. But Im not persuaded it changes my decision. This is because although the pension 
recommendation mayve been more suitable than her existing pension in certain regards for 
Miss F, it wasnt suitable in terms of the contribution flexibility she needed. I also note that 
not notably cheaper is still cheaper. And this is without consideration of the cost to Miss F 
of moving to the new product. 
I also accept that many of the things Miss F said she wanted from her pension provision 
were fairly considered by the adviser. And that the product recommended did meet several 
of her stated objectives. But I dont consider that the adviser properly thought about Miss Fs 
requirement for contribution flexibility when he made his recommendations. Ill cover this 
point in more detail later on. 
I agree with Prudential that they have to look at fund choice and ATR in order to consider 
whether the advice is suitable or not. I have no reason to suspect that their advice was 
unsuitable in respect of these points. Thats why I didnt consider them in much detail in my 
provisional decision.
Prudential disagreed that Miss F had mentioned her need for contribution flexibility. They 
said there was no mention in the sales file nor the Suitability Report of a requirement for 
flexibility in terms of the contributions being made. Miss F had previously told this service 
that she remembered telling the adviser that she wanted the pension to be flexible because 
she was working in a variety of different capacities at the time (including as a Director of my 
Limited Company and a self-employed contractor). I also wanted to be able to pay into the 
scheme as an individual contributor if this was beneficial from a tax point of view. She also 
told this service that she had contributed ad hoc amounts from our Limited company when 
there was money available to her old Prudential pension.
Ive considered carefully what both parties have said on this point. Looking at the Suitability 
Report and the fact find from the time of the advice, I can see that regular and single 
contributions were discussed, but theres no evidence that the advisor considered, or was 
asked to consider, other payment patterns. But even without that evidence, I consider that it 
shouldve been discussed as part of the advice process. The Suitability Report recorded that 
Miss F was self-employed. But the fact find didnt go into detail about her income and didnt 
cover at all whether Miss Fs income  and therefore her pension contributions - might 
fluctuate over time. I consider that the adviser shouldve discussed contribution flexibility and 
the different methods Miss F might want to use (eg salary sacrifice) with her. I say this 
because Im persuaded that he had enough information to realise contributions might be 
irregular and that Miss F may need to use different contribution methods under her Page 11  of 13circumstances. I cant be certain whether Miss F mentioned contribution flexibility or not at 
the adviser meetings. But I consider that it would be reasonable for her to have expected 
any solution presented could provide her with all the usual methods of contributing shed had 
available to her before.
I acknowledge Prudentials point that Miss Fs partner received identical advice but had 
raised no complaints about the advice. But different people have different circumstances. So 
I cant comment on this without understanding his circumstances. 
I agree with Prudential that just because Miss F had transferred away from Prudential, that 
didnt imply that the product wasnt suitable for her or had been mis-sold to her. But I dont 
agree that just because shed raised no complaints for the four years before 2020 that 
means her complaint shouldnt be upheld. I say this because, at the time the advice was 
provided, Miss F wasnt making regular contributions into her existing pension 
arrangements. So it appears that Miss F complained once she became aware that the 
product wasnt suitable, ie as soon as she tried to contribute flexibly and wasnt able to. 
And I also agree that people do move away from providers sometime purely on the basis of 
poor service. But from what Ive seen, Miss F complained about the advice once she 
realised she had cause to complain, due to feeling that the pension shed been 
recommended didnt meet her needs. I dont think its relevant that she hadnt had cause to 
complain about the advice before then. 
Regarding Miss Fs point about the initial charges. I dont agree that Prudential didnt 
communicate to her that she would be charged for the move between Prudential pension 
schemes. But, regardless of that, Ive asked Prudential to put Miss F back to the position she 
wouldve been in but for the advice. So my redress will effectively refund the charges to her if 
the notional value calculated is greater than the actual value. 
Having considered all of the points raised by both Miss F and Prudential, I remain of the view 
I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To compensate Miss F fairly, Prudential must:
Compare the performance of Miss F's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider/her original Prudential plan. If the actual value is 
greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Prudential should add interest as set out below
Prudential should pay into Miss F's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Prudential is unable to pay the total amount into Miss F's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Miss F wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.Page 12  of 13The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss F's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Miss F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Miss F would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Miss F how much has been taken off. Prudential should give Miss F a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss F asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
namestatus Benchmark From 
(start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Prudential 
Retirement 
AccountStill 
existsNotional value from 
previous provider for 
external switch
Notional value from 
original Prudential 
PPP for internal 
switchDate of 
investmentDate of 
my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from my 
final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Miss F's investment had it remained with the previous provider/her 
original Prudential plan until the end date. Prudential should request that the previous 
provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the PRA should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Prudential totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Prudential will need to 
determine a fair value for Miss F's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the 
calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional 
value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?Page 13  of 13Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Miss F wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Miss F's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to take the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman