DRN-1461227
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited misled him when handling his car 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B was involved in a motoring incident that he accepted was his fault. It was only minor, 
but he contacted Admiral to let them know.
Because he didnt think the damage would cost much to repair, he was interested in buying 
back the claim  so he could keep his no claim discount. Admiral said he could look to do 
this after the claim had been settled.
Once that happened Mr B enquired further about buying back the claim. But Admiral said it 
had kept a reserve on it due to the possibility of a personal injury claim. This was because 
the other driver had initially told them injury had been caused  even though theyd since 
said they wouldnt be claiming for personal injury.
Mr B is unhappy with this because it means he wont be able to buy back the claim. He feels 
the other drivers word should be taken and that the reserve shouldnt remain for the 18 
months hes been advised. Mr B also feels that if Admiral had advised him of this possibility 
in the first place, hed have settled the claim privately.
Admiral looked into Mr Bs complaint. They understood communication couldve been clearer 
and offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. They said they couldnt now 
change the reserve because its possible the other driver will change their mind, as happens 
in other cases.
Mr B wasnt happy with this, so he brought his case to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mr Bs complaint, but felt that the compensation was 
adequate. They didnt think there was any guarantee Mr B couldve reached a private 
settlement. Mr B disagreed, saying that hed already discussed private settlement. As 
agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, even though I can understand why hes 
still dissatisfied. Ill explain why.
Mr B has a contract of insurance with Admiral, he did the right thing in notifying them of the 
incident. And Admiral handled his claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Its true that some insurers will allow consumers to buy back claims in the way thats 
been discussed here, but only where the insurer agrees it.In this case Admiral doesnt agree to allow Mr B to buy back the claim at this point because 
of the possibility of a personal injury claim. And although the possibility may be slim, based 
on what the other driver has said, sometimes people change their minds  so a possibility 
remains. I dont consider this to be unreasonable, as it could lead to Mr B becoming liable for 
further costs down the line, costs which have the potential to be substantial. 
Its also worth noting that when Admiral first discussed the possibility of buying back the 
claim Mr B had said that there was no injury to the other driver  so I can understand why 
they wouldnt have said it could affect the buy back option.
Ive thought about Mr Bs concerns in relation to prejudice, in that if hed not been misled, its 
possible hed have been able to settle privately. But I dont think theres enough to conclude 
it wouldve turned out that way. I note that Mr B had concerns that the other driver was 
exaggerating the claim, and that in itself may have led to difficulties with a private 
settlement. And although he said he'd already discussed settling privately, I believe he said 
during his call with Admiral that he wasn't sure of the other driver's stance on that.
I also note that Mr Bs insurance policy says:
You must not:
admit the accident was your fault
attempt to negotiate settlement of the claim unless we have given you our 
permission in writing
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
So, bearing in mind Mr B had informed Admiral of the incident, he couldnt have negotiated 
private settlement without their permission. And bearing in mind there was the possibility of a 
personal injury claim, I dont think Admiral wouldve given Mr B permission to do so. Its also 
worth noting the second part, which shows its down to Admiral how the claim is settled.
In view of this I dont think Mr B has really lost out due to the misinformation provided, having 
reported it to Admiral I think hed have always been in the position of not being able to buy 
back the claim. That said, I do agree that Admiral has caused him unnecessary trouble and 
frustration through not being entirely clear about the claim process. I think the £50 
compensation already offered for this is sufficient in the circumstances, because even if 
theyd been clearer Mr B would be in the same position.
My final decision
It's my final decision that I don't uphold Mr B's complaint. I consider the £50 already offered 
by Admiral Insurance Company Limited to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman