DRN-2021876
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has said about the 
compensation to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy, taken out alongside her catalogue account.
What happened
Mrs N opened her catalogue account, ending 408-1, in March 1993, and at that time she did 
not take out a PPI policy. The PPI policy was added later, in August 1997.
When Mrs N complained that the PPI was mis-sold, Aviva agreed that her complaint should 
be upheld. However, it said the PPI was only ever charged to the account in one month, 
September 1997. Shortly after the policy was cancelled, and the one premium charged 
refunded in December 1997. So as the only PPI premium that had been charged to the 
account had already been refunded, and no interest was charged on the premium, no 
compensation was due for the mis-sale.
Mrs N wasnt happy with that as she said she had paid PPI for longer and had over the years 
had a number of catalogue accounts which may have had PPI on them, and some 
compensation was due.
Our adjudicator said what Aviva had said was fair. Mrs N remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld Mrs Ns complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I 
am not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what Aviva has 
said about the compensation for the mis-sold PPI, is correct and fair. Although Mrs N has 
mentioned other accounts, both that she had and that a family member had, I am only 
considering the PPI sold related to account ending 408-1 in this decision.
Aviva has provided statement summaries related to Mrs Ns account from March 1993, 
marked as statement 01, through to statement number 102 in December 2000 when the 
account had a zero balance.
I have looked through all these summary statements, which reflect the transactions on the 
account, and I can see that on 7 September 1997 a charge of £7.90 was made to the 
account for PPI. This is the first charge shown on the account at all with the PPI reference. 
There is then a note on the records indicating that on 15 September 1997 the PPI was 
cancelled. 
In October 1997 there is no PPI charge shown on the account and that continues through to 
December 1997. In December 1997 a refund of the PPI charge of £7.90 is shown. After this, 
through to August 1999, when there was still activity on the account, there are no more 
charges for PPI shown. The account had a zero balance after August 1999 onwards, to the 
end of the records provided in December 2000.
From the evidence provided it does seem PPI was added to the account and a charge made 
of £7.90 in September 1997. But this charge was fully refunded in December 1997, after 
cancellation of the PPI. 
Extracts of the records provided by Aviva showing the one PPI premium charged and the 
refund, have been provided to Mrs N by our adjudicator.
Mrs N hasnt provided any records or evidence to show that any PPI premiums, other than 
this one in September 1997, were ever charged to the account. 
So based on the evidence of I have seen of this account, I cannot see that anything is now 
due to Mrs N in compensation for the mis-sold PPI. She had the one charge made, refunded 
shortly after the PPI was cancelled, so she hasnt any amounts not repaid.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I am satisfied that what Aviva has said about 
the compensation in this case, that nothing is due to be paid, is correct and I am not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding this complaint by Mrs N that 
compensation is due to her, from Aviva Insurance Limited  for the mis-sold PPI
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman