DRN-3933187
The complaint
Miss I complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) refused to amend her credit file 
despite upholding her complaint regarding the service she received when trying to evidence 
her status as a student and complete a budget planner to agree an arrangement to repay 
her overdraft. 
What happened
Miss I held a student current account with Santander. The account came with an interest 
free overdraft for two years which then rolled over to a graduate account on 16 July 2018 for 
two years and thereafter an everyday account from 27 July 2020. 
During a call in May 2020 Santander advised Miss I if she was continuing to study to visit a 
branch and provide her course details so it could update her account. The account was 
changed to an everyday account in July 2020.  Due to the account not being funded 
correctly the account entered collections in November 2020 and the overdraft was removed 
in February 2021 as no arrangement had been set up to repay the debt.
From early 2021 Miss I tried to complete and submit a budget planner so she could come to 
an arrangement to repay her overdraft debt as well as providing proof she was still a student. 
Miss Is account was updated to a student account following her providing proof of her 
student ID in March 2021. But due to errors on Santanders part Miss I was provided with 
conflicting information and poor service which led to a delay in submitting the budget planner 
and setting up an arrangement. An arrangement to pay back her overdraft was agreed in 
July 2021 and Miss I settled the debt in May 2022. 
Santander agreed Miss I hadnt received the service she shouldve due to mistakes on its 
part and compensated Miss I £500 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused. But it 
refused to update Miss Is credit file regarding missed or late payments from February 2021 
as it said the information reported was factual information.
Miss I was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Miss Is complaint and thought that it was due to the confusion 
surrounding the submission and implementation of the budget planner that the arrangement 
wasnt set up until July 2021. And as they were satisfied during this period Miss I had been 
trying to pay back the overdraft debt they recommended that Santander should amend her 
credit file from showing missed payments to show she was in an arrangement.
Santander agreed to amend the credit file as recommended and reported Miss I as being in 
an arrangement from February through to July 2021.   
Miss I says her credit file is still showing incorrect information and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Santanders mistakes contributed to a delay in Miss I submitting a budget planner - the 
knock on effect of which was a delay in agreeing an arrangement for Miss I to repay her 
overdraft debt. To put things right Santander has agreed to amend Miss Is credit report from 
showing missed or late periods for the period from February 2021 to July (when the 
arrangement was agreed) to instead reflect she was in an arrangement  the place she 
wouldve likely been if its mistakes hadnt happened.
Miss I says what is shown on her credit report is incorrect. Ive seen a copy of Miss Is credit 
report dated 10 January 2023. The part which relates to Miss Is account with Santander 
records that Miss Is report was last updated on 22 December 2022 and that Miss I was in an 
arrangement to pay from January 2021 until April 2022.
So from what Ive seen Miss Is credit record has been amended in-line with what was 
recommended. Furthermore, Santander has a duty to make sure the information it reports on 
its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
And from January 2021 until Miss I settled her debt in May 2022 I can see the report shows 
Miss I as being in an arrangement to pay which is a true reflection of how Miss Is overdraft 
debt was being managed. So I cant say that Santander has made a mistake or done 
anything wrong here.
So overall and having considered everything I think that Santander has amended Miss Is 
credit file in-line with our recommendations and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided Santander UK Plc has already put things right for 
Miss I in the way agreed and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman