DRN-4152425
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained that their claim for storm damage was unfairly declined under their 
home insurance policy with Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AI).
What happened
Following a storm Mr and Mrs A made a claim on their policy. Ridge tiles on the top part of 
the house and porch lifted with many of them also coming loose.
AI appointed a surveyor to validate and review the claim but based upon the surveyors 
report and photographic evidence AI decided to decline the claim. AI agreed there was a 
storm at the time of the reported incident. However, it said the damage was more likely 
caused by wear and tear which was excluded by the policy.
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with this outcome, as they said their roof was in good condition, 
having been installed in 2015 with the porch being re-tiled in 2019. Theyve asked for their 
claim to be settled in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Based upon the evidence presented 
he thought AI had made a fair decision. He didnt think the storm was the main cause of 
damage, he thought AI had been reasonable to conclude the damage was caused by wear 
and tear. Mr and Mrs A disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
AI accepted that storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident. So, I will 
move on to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think a storm of the force reported by Mr and Mrs A could dislodge tiles or blow them from 
the roof. Therefore, I would say the damage claimed for is consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. 
So, Ive considered the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
AI said wear and tear was the main cause of the damage  so I have checked the surveyors 
report to see if it supports AIs conclusion. The surveyor said the ridge was inspected and 
although at first glance it seems ok we can see the cement is a poor mix and has de-bonded 
from the roof. The ridge tiles are not stuck down to the roof, and this is why they have come 
off. We can see on other parts of the ridge that the cement is missing. The full ridge needs 
renewing. This is due to age and not an insured peril.
When Mr and Mrs A complained, I can see that AI did a further review of the evidence. An 
in-house surveyor provided a second opinion. I think this was a reasonable approach. He 
said Clearly evidence of the mortar crumbling and deteriorating which has happened over 
time but also due to weather over time. Mortar crumbles from the freeze and thaw event but 
this happens over time and not as a one-off event".
I have reviewed the photos that the surveyor took to support his findings. There are several 
good quality photos to show the condition of the roof. I think the surveyors commentary is 
consistent with what I can see in the photos.
I can see two separate ridges on the main roof  one appears to be undamaged, and I can 
see a consistently thick layer of cement bonding the ridge tiles to the roof. However, on the 
other ridge the bonding seems thinner and is showing signs of deterioration around the 
edges. Some mortar is missing between tiles. I think its likely the standard of bonding has 
led to the damage on the one ridge, as the ridge that appears well bonded seems 
undamaged.
Ive also seen a view of a separate ridge which seems lower than the main roof, so Im 
assuming this is the porch. Here the tiles dont appear to be fixed consistently, maybe due to 
some repairs having taken place over time. The tiles are uneven in height, with different 
quantities of mortar under each one. I think its likely this couldve accelerated the 
deterioration of the bonding on these tiles.
Therefore, I think AI has been fair in concluding the main cause of the damage was due to 
wear and tear. I think its likely the damage was caused by a gradual deterioration to the 
bonding of the roof tiles and the storm merely highlighted this pre-existing condition. This is 
what the surveyor observed. I think AI has been reasonable to conclude the storm wasnt the 
main cause of damage.
Ive checked the policy and there is a general exclusion on page 17 that states any gradual 
or maintenance-related loss or damage isnt covered by the policy. I think AI has fairly 
declined the claim for damage to the roof  as wear and tear / gradual damage is excluded 
from the policy.
I havent seen any further expert independent reports provided that contradict AIs findings, 
so I think the conclusions reached on this claim are fair. So, as I dont think AI has done 
anything wrong, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman