DRN-2340363
The complaint
Mr H and Ms S are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim under their 
home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr H and Ms S made a claim to UKI for storm damage after a lot of water suddenly came in 
through a bedroom ceiling. UKI sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. 
UKI declined the claim, saying that there were no storm conditions in their area around the 
date of the claim. It also said that the damage was due to existing maintenance issues that 
were highlighted by the wind and the rain.
Mr H and Ms S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
didnt think Mr H and Ms S had shown that the damage to their roof had been caused by a 
storm. 
She also considered whether UKI should cover the damage to the interior of the property 
under the accidental damage section of the policy. She didnt think this cover applied either 
on the basis that the damage appeared to have happened gradually. 
Mr H and Ms S accepted the investigators decision regarding the damage to the roof but 
thought UKI should cover the internal damage. They said that damage had occurred at the 
time of heavy rain rather than gradually.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the decision in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Since there wasnt a storm, I agree that UKI acted reasonably in declining the claim for 
storm damage. That just leaves the question whether UKI should have accepted the claim 
for internal damage under the accidental damage section of the policy.
In Mr H and Ms Ss policy accidental damage is defined as sudden and unintentional 
physical damage that happens unexpectedly. The policy doesnt cover damage that 
happens gradually. I bear in mind that its the damage that has to be sudden, not the cause 
of the damage. So a long running problem might lead to something else suddenly being 
damaged. I think thats what happened here.
Mr H said he woke up one morning to find water pouring in through a bedroom ceiling. 
According to him it was raining very heavily at the time.
Ive seen the report prepared by UKIs surveyor after hed inspected the damage. He said:
Upon inspection there is water damage to the artex bedroom ceiling. The ceiling is cracked 
and stained.
Photos show that this description is accurate. I think the photos indicate that the staining on 
the ceiling was probably recent and linked to the incident described by Mr H. 
The surveyor went on to note that he also noticed staining to the painted walls in each 
corner of the room and mould spores. There has clearly been a damp issue for an extended 
period of time.
Mr H agrees that there was an existing damp problem in the room. But he says the walls 
have been damp for a long time and thats a separate issue from the damage to the ceiling. 
Ive looked at photos of the bedroom and note that there are damp spots all over the walls 
but the position of them doesnt indicate that they were likely caused by water getting in 
through the ceiling. Im not persuaded that the damp problem is necessarily connected with 
water getting in through the roof.
UKI also referred to the fact that the inside of the roof tiles had been foam-sprayed. It 
suspected that the foam had been installed due to previous problems with the roof. Mr H 
said hed had the tiles foam-sprayed when he had a partial loft conversion done. In my 
experience, there are various reasons why people have foam sprayed on the inside of their 
roof, such as to improve their insulation for example. 
Its up to UKI to show that its entitled to rely on the exclusion that the damage happened 
gradually. Overall, in the particular circumstances of this case, Im not convinced its shown 
that the internal damage to the bedroom ceiling more likely than not happened gradually. Im 
more persuaded that water suddenly came pouring through it. So I dont consider that UKI 
acted reasonably when it declined this part of the claim. To put things right Im minded to say 
that UKI should reconsider the claim for internal damage to the bedroom under the 
accidental damage section of the policy and pay them compensation of £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused by wrongly declining this part of the claim.
Mr H and Ms S accepted my provisional decision. In summary in its response UKI made the 
following points:
Mr H and Ms S should have taken action sooner to repair their property as it should have 
been obvious to them that water was getting in through the roof.
The fact that the whole roof needed to be replaced indicated to UKI that there was 
gradual damage which had been ongoing for a long period of time.
The foam spray wasnt relevant to the claim being declined. But it showed the poor 
condition of the roof overall.

What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence I think UKI is saying that the internal damage happened gradually and wasnt 
sudden and unexpected, so not meeting the policy definition of accidental damage. The 
photos of the damage in the bedroom provided to this service show cracks in the artex 
ceiling with water staining around them which look recent to me. The photos also show 
damp and mould spots on the walls which dont look recent or necessarily linked to the 
damaged ceiling. Mr H and Miss Ss decorator said the damp spots had been there for many 
years. There might be a number of different reasons for the damp spots on the walls (poor 
ventilation, for example). I dont think theres enough evidence for UKI to say that it should 
have been obvious to Mr H and Miss S that water was getting in through their roof. So for the 
reasons set out in my provisional findings I think its likely that the damage caused by the 
rainwater to the bedroom was unforeseen  and therefore it should be covered by the 
accidental damage section of their policy.Mr H and Miss S suffered unnecessary trouble and upset by having this part of their claim 
unfairly declined. I remain of the view that compensation of £200 is appropriate to 
compensate them for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require UK Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim for 
accidental damage to the interior of Mr H and Ms Ss property and pay them compensation 
of £200 for the trouble and upset its caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman