DRN-3681416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were sold the PPI at around the same time as arranging the mortgage in 2003. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr T for accident, sickness 
and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T have said that the adviser told them that buying PPI was the most beneficial 
thing to do and that it was the norm to buy it. But they have also said that the PPI was not 
discussed with them.  Theyve said that they were just told where to sign on the forms and 
did as they were told so that the mortgage application could progress. This is how they came 
to sign up for PPI and that they would never have done so otherwise.
Ive seen a copy of the PPI questionnaire that Mr and Mrs T originally provided to Nationwide 
in which they thought that the sale was much earlier than 2003. Ive no doubt that Mr and 
Mrs T have provided their genuine memory of events. However, the sale was a long time 
ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their recollections have faded.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI would have been 
presented as optional. And I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs T 
probably decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer 
remember doing so.
Its possible that this was an advised sale. That means that, in recommending the policy, 
Nationwide needed to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs Ts needs. And from what I know of 
their circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.
Mr T would have received sick pay from his job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay for. The 
couple had some savings but having the policy would have meant that they could retain 
these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Mr T 
says he had life insurance but the PPI was covering a different set of risks and did not 
include life cover, so the PPI was not duplicating his existing cover. Overall, I consider that 
Mr T had a need for the cover and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a 
difficult time. In fact, Nationwide has provided evidence to show that Mr T made a successful 
claim for unemployment in 2004 and received a benefit of £1,645.
Nationwide needed to provide Mr and Mrs T with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr T was not affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy. As I think that Mr and Mrs T had an interest in the policy 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything that Nationwide may 
have done wrong, so theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right. It 
follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
On another point, as Mr and Mrs T cancelled the policy in June 2005, its likely that Mr T 
received more in benefit for his unemployment claim than they had paid in premiums. So, 
even if the complaint had been upheld, no compensation would be due to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman