DRN-3714701
The complaint
A charity which Ill call E complains that Lloyds Bank Plc caused it inconvenience by not 
updating their account signatories in a reasonable timeframe.
The complaint is brought on Es behalf by one of the directors/trustees, Mr W. Mr W is 
represented by Mr L, who Ill refer to throughout the decision.
What happened
E told us:
They hadnt been able to access their account for eight months because of Lloyds 
poor service.
Theyd sent the forms to update the signatories on the account several times, but this 
hadnt been actioned.
Lloyds had offered them £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused to the 
charity, but they didnt think this was enough. 
Lloyds told us:
E hadnt sent in the forms to change their signatories until late December 2021, and 
these hadnt been completed correctly.
It had emailed E to say the forms were incorrect on the date they were processed but 
hadnt received a response. 
It acknowledged E had contacted the bank in mid-February, but this hadnt been 
acknowledged. It had arranged for the correct forms to be sent and emailed in mid-
March, but E had decided not to proceed and requested the bank close the account 
and move the funds to another bank- which it had done on 1 April. 
It recognized its service could have been better when E contacted it in mid-February, 
but it had paid E £300 for the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed that Lloyds hadnt 
given the best customer service as it hadnt contacted E in February to say the signatory 
forms were incorrectly signed again. However, she thought the compensation already paid 
by Lloyds was fair as Mr L had confirmed E hadnt incurred any losses as a result of the 
banks actions. 
E didnt agree. They said £300 wasnt enough compensation for the inconvenience caused 
to the charity and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. There isnt much more that I can add in 
addition to what our investigator has already said.
E says that because of Lloyds actions, they havent been able to access their account for 
around eight months. But Im not persuaded thats the case. E says they started the process 
of requesting for the signatories to be changed by the bank at the end of October by phone. 
However, Ive listened to this call, and Im satisfied that the call handler gave E sufficient 
information for the charity to start the process, which included confirming which forms were 
required and directing E whilst on the call to where these could be located on the banks 
website. But at no point on the call did the call handler say that they would start the process 
of making the changes for E, and I think they were clear the next steps were reliant on the 
charity making the required change requests. 
Neither party has disputed that the actual forms which were required to make the changes to 
the signatories on Es account were not received until the end of December. So this would 
have been the earliest point that Lloyds could have started processing Es request. I cant 
reasonably hold the bank responsible for the charity not being able to access the account 
prior to this because the previous account signatories had all resigned. 
E says they received a text message from Lloyds in December confirming that their mandate 
change request had been received. They said they didnt receive any further contact from 
the bank after this, so believed the request had been actioned until they tried to access the 
account in early February. However, Ive seen records from the bank which show that a text 
message was sent to E to say the mandate forms had been received, this was followed 
around fifteen minutes later by an email explaining that the mandate couldnt be updated as 
requested as the forms were incorrect along with directions on what needed to be amended 
to correct this. I recognise that E says it doesnt recall receiving this, however Ive seen the 
banks case records and Im satisfied that the email was sent.
E told us that they werent aware there was an issue with the mandate request until 
1 February when they needed to use the account. I recognise it would have been frustrating 
for E that the transactions couldnt be undertaken at this point, but I cant say this was 
caused by something the bank did wrong. 
However, I have seen that in mid-February, E sent in new forms to Lloyds as requested 
which they say werent acknowledged. Looking at the banks case notes, it appears that 
Lloyds did start processing the change within a reasonable timescale, but this wasnt 
communicated to E. It was only when E complained to the bank at the start of March that the 
charity became aware that this mandate change request had also been incorrectly 
completed. So I dont think Lloyds treated E reasonably here. 
E told us that it doesnt think £300 compensation is enough to put things right due to the time 
they werent able to access their account, and the inconvenience caused. However, whilst I 
agree that Lloyds did cause some delay here by not proactively contacting E, I think the 
relevant timeframe was from 15 February when the last mandate change request forms were 
received by the bank, until 1 April when Es funds were transferred to their other bank as 
requested  so a period of around six weeks. 
E has also said that it didnt suffer any financial loss during that time, nor that it required 
access to the account for anything in particular. So Es complaint focusses on not accessing 
the account for the six weeks and having to contact Lloyds on some occasions where the 
bank should have been more proactive. Lloyds has apologised for its mistakes and paid E 
£300 compensation, and based on what Ive seen, I think this is reasonable.
I recognise that E feels strongly about this, and theyll be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds has done enough to put things right, so I wont 
be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman