DRN-1103880
The complaint
Ms S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
What happened
Ms S took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint for the following reasons. 
Ms S completed an application form specifically for the MPPI. So, I think Lloyds made Ms S 
aware that she had a choice about buying the MPPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Ms S, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. While she had some savings, its likely 
shed have been keen to protect these, as she told us they were earmarked to pay for her 
wedding. She didn't have much sick or redundancy pay through her work (only statutory), so 
it appears she may have struggled to keep up with her mortgage repayments if shed been 
unable to work. And while she may have had some additional rental income, I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable for her. 
Its possible that Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if 
it had, I think Ms S would still have bought it, as it doesn't appear to have been particularly 
expensive given the benefit it provided. 
Its possible that Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policy did not cover. But Ms S 
doesn't appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ss comments, including what shes said about not needing the 
policy. But these points dont change my conclusion. She would've been aware of her 
savings, employee benefits  and other insurance at the time she applied for the MPPI. And 
I'm not persuaded that if Lloyds had provided more or clearer information to her about the 
MPPI that she would've decided not to take it. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman