DRN-3402122
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
AutoMoney Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 28 April 2021, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with AutoMoney. The agreement was for £4,475 over 42 months; with an initial payment of 
£211.48, 40 monthly repayments of £162.48, and a final payment of £261.48.
Mr M said there were problems with the engine and the car was taken back to the supplying 
dealership for repair in July 2021. The car was returned to Mr M on 13 August 2021 and, on 
2 October 2021, the engine failed. The dealership collected the car and agreed that the 
engine needed to be replaced. But there was a delay in this taking place.
Mr M complained to AutoMoney and asked to be able to reject the car. AutoMoney 
discussed this with the dealership, but they said that, due to the cost of repairing bodywork 
damage to the car (unrelated to the engine problems) and the usage costs for when Mr M 
had the car, they thought hed likely be out of pocket if the car was rejected.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that AutoMoney had agreed the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied and agreed to carry out repairs. But, due to the delays in carrying out these 
repairs, the investigator thought Mr M should be allowed to reject the car.
The investigator said that Mr M had done around 12,500 miles between 28 April and 2 
October 2021, and it was only fair that he pays for this usage. But he didnt think that Mr M 
should pay for the car after 2 October 2021, as he hadnt been able to use it after this point.
However, the investigator said that hes seen photographs of the car before it was supplied 
to Mr M, and after it was returned to the dealership. And this showed damage to the car. The 
agreement Mr M signed made him liable for the cost of repairing any damage that fell 
outside normal wear and tear, so the investigator said that AutoMoney had acted reasonably 
by asking Mr M to pay this.
Finally, the investigator said that the failure of the cars engine, and the delays in repairing 
the car, caused Mr M significant distress and inconvenience. So, he thought AutoMoney 
should also pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for this.
AutoMoney agreed with the investigator. They confirmed that the car had already been 
collected and that Mr M hadnt made any payments since October 2021 so no refund is due 
to him. They also confirmed that the cost of the repairs to the car were £2,298.85, and that 
they would deduct the £250 compensation from this amount.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he hadnt done anything wrong, except 
buy a complete shambles of a car from a shambles of a dealer, so he didnt think it was fair 
for him to pay anything towards the car in any circumstances. And hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, AutoMoney are 
responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In 
a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and 
the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must 
last a reasonable amount of time. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took 
possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask AutoMoney to put this right.
In this instance, AutoMoney have accepted that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Mr M, and have agreed to allow rejection due to the delay in the engine being 
replaced, my decision will focus on what else, if anything, is needed to put things right.
It's not disputed that Mr M had use of car from 28 April to 2 October 2021, a period which 
included use of a courtesy car while repairs were being undertaken in July/August 2021. And 
from what Ive seen Mr M did around 12,500 miles in the car during this period. Given this, I 
think its fair that Mr M pay for this usage, so I wont be asking AutoMoney to refund any 
payments to him for this period. 
AutoMoney have said that Mr M hasnt made any payments since September 2021, so hes 
not due any refund. However, the statement of account theyve provided clearly shows that 
Mr M overpaid on his payments for May to September 2021. So, these overpayments should 
be refunded to him.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr M electronically signed on 26 April 2021.Under the 
heading Caring for the Vehicle the agreement says you must keep the Vehicle in good 
working order and condition  you are responsible for all loss of, or damage to, the Vehicle 
even if it is caused by events beyond your control. However, you are not responsible for loss 
or damage due to fair wear and tear. 
Given this, and given that Mr M signed to say that hed read the agreement before signing it, 
Im satisfied he wouldve been reasonably aware that he was responsible for the cost of any 
damage to the car that fell outside of normal wear and tear.Based on the photographic evidence Ive seen, there was damage to the car when it was 
collected by the dealership that wasnt present when it was supplied to Mr M. The damage to 
the front and rear bumpers is extensive and falls outside of the industry standard fair wear 
and tear guidelines. Ive noted that Mr M has said that he wasnt responsible for the damage 
caused to the car. However, the agreement is clear that, even if this was the case, he was 
still liable for the cost of repair. As such, and while I appreciate that Mr M wont agree with 
this, Im satisfied that AutoMoney have acted reasonably by charging him for this damage.
Finally, the investigator recommended that Mr M should be compensated an additional £250 
for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. AutoMoney agreed to this, and Mr M didnt 
disagree with this amount. After considering the facts, and the delays involved in the attempt 
to repair the car, Im satisfied this amount is reasonable in the circumstances.
However, this amount is to compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered, so I dont think its reasonable that (unless Mr M agrees to it) AutoMoney withhold 
this compensation and apply it against Mr Ms outstanding balance.
Putting things right
So, AutoMoney should:
end the agreement with no further monthly instalments to pay;
refund any payments Mr M has paid after 2 October 2021;
refund the overpayments to the monthly instalments Mr M paid between 28 April and 
2 October 2021;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr M made 
the payments/overpayments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file; 
and
pay Mr A an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires AutoMoney to take off tax from this interest. AutoMoney 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
AutoMoney can deduct the amount of the refund from any amount Mr M owes. If there are 
any arrears after the settlement has been calculated, AutoMoney should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan. And treat Mr M with forbearance and due consideration.
However, the £250 compensation is to be paid directly to Mr M, and cannot be used any 
amount Mr M owes, unless he specifically agrees to it being used in this way..
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and AutoMoney Limited should follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman