DRN-2062675
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that when he transferred money from another bank account to a 
Lifetime ISA (LISA) he had with the Skipton Building Society (SBS), they returned it to his 
bank without telling him and that resulted in him losing out on a £975 government bonus.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and 
is known to both Mr S and SBS, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with.
Mr S had opened a LISA with SBS sometime before he decided to make a further 
transfer into it of £3,900. He made a £3,900 transfer on the 27 March prior to the end of the 
tax year and so that he could take advantage of the HMRC bonus which would be paid to 
him. He did this by telephone having obtained from SBS their account number and sort 
code.
SBSs systems are such that when they receive any electronic payment from an 
outside source, it must be accompanied by a 9 digit reference number unique to the 
customer  this they call the Skipton account number. On this occasion Mr S didnt supply 
the number, only his name for the reference, and because of that the transfer was unable to 
be allocated to his account. As such it was returned, manually, to his bank. But Mr S didnt 
become aware that the money had been returned until well after the end of the tax year, by 
which time he had missed out on the bonus. Mr S feels this is unfair because he was never 
told about the 9 digit reference number, nor that it was required for transfers into his LISA, 
since if he had he would have used it. He feels SBS ought to have notified him that it had 
returned the money to his bank, so that he could have remedied the error. 
SBS dont feel they have done anything wrong. They say the account Mr S has is a 
nonadvisory online account and it was reasonable to have expected him to navigate their 
web site to find out how he should make the transfer. Mr S was unhappy with SBSs final 
response and so approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. 
An investigator looked into the complaint, and having done so, came to the conclusion that 
there had poor service by SBS and that it should compensate him by paying £975 in order to 
put him back in the position he would have been in. SBS didnt agree with our investigators 
view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes 
between consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have 
taken into account both sides views in considering whether SBS acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have to make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. In this case, I dont think that SBS has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
I asked both SBS and Mr S to provide any further comments they wished by the 1 August  
but there has been no response from Mr S. SBS did reply to confirm they accepted my 
provisional decision.
The starting point in my view is that Mr S had a non-advisory online account. This 
means that the onus was on him to manage his account as he was not receiving an advised 
service from SBS. Mr S opened the account online and so would know that there would be a 
lot of information available to him online regarding payments into and out of the account. It 
is reasonable therefore to expect him to go to the website for any such information he 
may have required regarding the LISA. 
In the present case, Mr S says he called SBS and obtained their account number and 
sort code so that he could use that to make the telephone payment from his bank. I, like 
our investigator, have been unable to listen to the call recording because SBS say they have 
no record of Mr S making the call asking for this information. But Mr S must have obtained 
the information from somewhere. SBS say that their sort code and account number are 
available on line and whenever they are displayed the customers 9 digit Skipton account 
number is also displayed. 
The SBS evidence does also show that Mr S accessed his online account roughly half 
an hour before he made the transfer. Having done that I do think it is more likely than not 
that in anticipation of making the transfer he would most probably have looked up how that 
might be done and what might be required to do it. 
From the screen shot evidence I have seen it looks very straightforward to navigate to 
the Pay in page which is obviously the page a person would need to look at if they 
were intending to make a payment into a LISA as Mr S was. Having done that a person 
would be presented with a number of options, one of which is Electronic Payment which is 
the type of payment Mr S was about to make. That page tells the viewer what they need to 
do. It provides the sort code and bank account number that the money is going to. Those 
are SBSs details not Mr Ss, a fact which would be obvious since the account number was 
not his. Below that it says the words Reference (Your 9 digit Skipton account number) and 
then sets out the customers own reference number. It is this number that Mr S would 
have needed for the transfer payment, and to have included it. So, I think it likely that Mr S 
would have seen this screen himself when he logged on half an hour before he made the 
transfer. There would seem no other explanation for why he might have logged in, if it wasnt 
to seek information about the transfer. And it is the most likely explanation as to where he 
obtained the sort code and account number for SBS. So I am satisfied that he would 
probably have seen this screen, and that would have made it clear to him that the 9 digit 
number that was required was the one on the page.
Additionally, in the centre of the page there is a warning preceded by a warning 
triangle which states;
When setting up an electronic payment into your account you must ensure that 
your reference is your Skipton account number. Failure to do this will result in you payment 
being returned.So in my view the information as to what Mr S needed to do was very clear, and 
not confusing as our investigator found. Our investigator has also rightly found that the terms 
and conditions do not make mention of the necessity to use the 9 digit Skipton account 
number when making transfers, and feels this is something that ought to have been included 
there. I dont agree that it is necessary to have it there. The terms and conditions of business 
arent there to cover every procedure, rather to regulate the legal relationship between the 
customer and SBS. In my view, it is perfectly reasonable to have the instruction on how to 
make a transfer on the web site alone, and it would be unlikely in any event that a customer 
would seek out the terms and conditions for information on how to make a transfer. 
Mr S also complains that SBS ought to have contacted him when the payment was 
returned, but I dont think this would be feasible. As SBS have pointed out they have over 
one million customers and to expect them to locate the correct Mr S, from the few details on 
the payment reference, would be unreasonable in my view. 
My final decision
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant say SBS has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and my final decision is that Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman