DRN-3219169
The complaint
Mr U complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) breached the 
equality act in refusing to provide him with advice about transferring his Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS).
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in my provisional 
decision dated 29 November 2021, this is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr U wished to transfer his OPS but legislation permits that he must seek advice. He contacted 
his financial adviser (a firm separate to TPWM) to start the process. His financial adviser passed 
this case onto TPWM  as he couldnt provide advice on OPS transfers.
I understand that TPWM received the request regarding Mr Us transfer on 1 October 2019 and it 
communicated its decision that it would not take on Mr U as a client on 4 October 2019. Mr Us 
financial adviser then emailed Mr U on 10 October to explain that his request had been denied.
Mr U then raised a complaint as he believes he has been the subject of age discrimination. He has 
cited information on the citizens advice website. Which says that Financial Services providers must 
base their risk assessments on information from a reliable source. Mr U says that as TPWM have 
used a hard cut off point of age 50, and not provided a risk analysis (assessment) to show why, 
that it is in breach of the Equalities Act.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think TPWM had done anything incorrectly. Mr U 
was unhappy with the investigators assessment as he says they did not address the Equalities 
Act and whether what TPWM had done was compliant with the law.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive taken into account the relevant legislation, law, good practice, regulatory rules 
and guidance but I am not bound by any of these. Ultimately my role is to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U believes that TPWM has breached the Equality Act and he wants us to make a finding on 
that. Whilst Ive taken into account the Equality Act in deciding whether TPWM have acted fairly  it 
is not for this service to make a ruling on this matter. This would be a matter for a court. This is 
because our service is an informal dispute resolution service which considers the merits of a 
specific case and the impact on the complainant. We cannot fine or punish businesses for failure to 
meet requirements under law  so even if I was to believe that TPWM had breached the Equality 
Act  I could only consider the impact of that on Mr U in this specific case. And we can only put 
things right where a customer has lost out financially because of something a business has done 
wrong.
Whilst Mr U has explained his complaint is that TPWM has breached the Equality Act, it is part of 
my role to get to the crux of the matter. And behind this, I think Mr Us complaint is ultimately that 
it refused to provide him with advice. I appreciate Mr U believes he has been wronged under the 
Equality Act but even if I was to agree with him, as Ive said unless this could be shown to have 
caused Mr U a loss  there would be nothing for us to do to put things right.
However, I appreciate that Mr U wants his points regarding the Equality Act addressed as he 
believes that TPWM has unfairly decided not to give him advice.
As Mr U is aware under the Equality Act, Financial Services has an exception with regards to age.
The Government Equalities Office produced a report - Equality Act 2010 and age discrimination: 
What do I need to know? A quick start guide for financial services September 2012.
Within this it says:
It has been decided that an exception from the general age discrimination ban is appropriate for 
the financial services sector. This means that existing products, contracts and policies which were, 
for example, designed, offered or priced in a way that differentiates between people of different 
ages may continue unaffected by the ban. It also means that financial services companies will still 
be able to use age in assessing risk, deciding which parts of the market to enter and in pricing 
products.
Financial service providers will be able to continue to use age banding and age limits and to 
specialise in products only for certain age groups. There will be no need to objectively justify age 
discrimination in the context of the provision of a financial service. The only new consideration that 
financial service providers need to be aware of is in relation to risk assessments.
Thus the exception is widely cast, to cater for the diverse nature of the financial services 
market.
We believe this is the right approach, because restricting the extent to which the financial services 
industry can pool risks on the basis of age would distort the market, leading to increased costs and 
higher prices generally, with the possibility of some companies leaving the market altogether. The 
use of age limits can also continue. Financial service providers will not therefore be forced to 
participate in sectors in which they have no experience.Providers will continue to be able to 
specialise in providing products only to certain age groups, for example, providing for the over 50s. 
However, individuals will be able to challenge a financial service provider if they think a risk 
assessment, so far as it involves a consideration of the persons age, has not been carried out by 
reference to relevant information which is from a source on which it is reasonable to rely.
What is meant by a source on which it is reasonable to rely?
Any public or private empirical, actuarial, statistical, qualitative research or other material or data 
such as forward looking projections, age related assumptions in changes in life expectancy and 
health, and evidence of costs. It can be from UK or international sources, based on industry-wide 
material or data, or firm-specific material or data, or the experience of another firm.
What is meant by relevant information?
A wide range of information is acceptable. Relevant information can be any data which would be 
acceptable to use to help define a risk or make an assessment, such as actuarial, statistical, 
medical or other information relating to a persons age.
What documentation is required by service providers to comply with the exception?
There is no prescribed documentation needed to comply with the exception under the legislation. 
The key point is that where the service provider has made a decision based on a risk assessment, 
this assessment must use relevant information from a source on which it is reasonable to rely. 
There is no requirement in the exception which obliges financial service providers to make 
available to customers the information on which they rely, or the source of such information. 
However, providers can only rely on the exception if they can show that the information met the conditions as to relevance and source, and in order to demonstrate this some level of disclosure 
may be necessary.
Are minimum and maximum age limits permitted?
Yes. Financial services providers are permitted to set their own age limits if they wish. Providers 
are not expected to serve parts of the market that they do not have experience of, or that do not 
form part of their business strategy.
Is age-specific marketing permitted?
Yes. Marketing or specialising in providing services to specific age groups is allowed, such as 
only providing services to people over 50.
Mr U contends that TPWM was in breach of the Equality Act as it had not demonstrated to him 
its risk analysis. But the Government Equalities Office says there is no requirement for TPWM to 
make available the information it relied upon to its customers.
In any event TPWM did give some information to Mr U (and through his IFA) about why it had rejected 
him as a client. And its given us further information about why its made a decision not to offer advice 
to under 50s in this area  unless specific criteria are met (which Mr U didnt meet). TPWM said in 
making this decision it considered (this is not an exhaustive statement of its considerations) what it 
had learnt from the market and more specifically the regulator (the FCA) workshops it had attended 
about OPS transfers. It says that within these workshops the FCA presented case studies and a 
theme was that there is little rationale to transfer when a client is young and so far away from 
retirement. This fits with my understanding of the risk involved of transferring an OPS and I am 
satisfied its credible information. And I think its clear that regulator guidance is a relevant source of 
information and is reasonable to rely upon.
Furthermore, TPWM is permitted to set their own age limits and make a commercial decision about 
its business strategy. Therefore, I think TPWMs explanations as to why it chose not to accept Mr 
Us request for transfer advice were fair and reasonable.
In any event, to uphold this complaint  the crux of the matter would be the impact of TPWMs 
decision to not offer advice to Mr U (if I felt it had unfairly or unreasonable chosen not to). And not 
whether it had complied with the Equality Act. For the record, I dont agree that it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably but even if I did agree with Mr U, in assessing the impact this had, I dont 
think there would be anything to put right.
TPWM informed Mr Us adviser of its decision within three days of its services being requested. So 
Mr U wouldve been free after this point to approach other advisory firms. The evidence suggests it 
didnt cause any unnecessary delays to Mr U. It had no real impact on Mr Us ability to transfer his 
OPS within the guaranteed deadline set by the scheme trustees. And therefore it has caused Mr U 
no financial loss. And we couldnt force a business to take on a client it didnt wish to do so. Also, 
there is no guarantee that had TPWM taken on Mr U as a client it would have recommended he 
transfer his benefits. Mr Us goal is clearly to transfer his OPS but TPWM would be under no 
obligation to agree to that, even if it did take him on as a client.
Furthermore, it seems to me what TPWM did in rejecting Mr U as a client at outset makes sense 
rather than the potential alternative. If TPWM already has concerns about giving OPS transfer 
advice to younger clients  the implications of this are presumably it is more likely to come to the 
conclusion that transferring wouldnt be in younger customers best interests. So if it had taken on 
Mr U as a client  this strikes me as a plausible scenario  Mr U wouldve paid for advice, much 
more time wouldve been exhausted and the advice might well have been that it didnt recommend 
Mr U transfer (and that it wouldnt facilitate a transfer for him).
In this scenario, Mr U would likely be further aggrieved and would perceive himself out of pocket 
(as hes made it clear he is only paying for advice because he has to, to meet his goal of 
transferring out). In that scenario Mr U couldnt fairly argue that it was in breach of the Equality Act as clearly age has a huge bearing on suitability of advice in transferring an OPS. And this 
advice wouldve been produced in conjunction with specific data as a risk assessment as to why 
his age was a big part of producing the result that it did. So by refusing to take on customers at 
outset (because it believes that advice to transfer would likely be unsuitable and this has been 
guided by the regulator) it saved going through a process that often will result in the advice being 
not to transfer in any event.
In conclusion, based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think TPWM did anything wrong, I think it 
has acted fairly and reasonably. So I do not intend to uphold Mr Us complaint. I appreciate Mr U 
will be disappointed with my view on matters but regardless of the merits of the complaint, I cant 
see that there is any loss linked to TPWM to redress in any event.
In response to the provisional decision Mr U made a number of points, largely re-iterating 
what he had said previously. TPWM responded to say it agreed and had no further 
comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains unchanged from the provisional decision.
Mr U has made further points about the Equality Act and its application in terms of TPWMs 
decision not to take him on as a client  but I havent got anything to add on that matter as it 
was covered in the provisional decision. But Mr U has also said we have avoided using the 
Equalities Act (presumably he means to uphold the complaint) and he has sent in an article 
where our former Chief Ombudsman clarified our position on the matter. However, I think 
this echoes what I explained in my provisional decision. The article says:
In response, Wayman confirmed that the FOS does not have the power to determine 
definitively whether firms have breached their obligations under the UK's Equality Act when it 
finds their treatment of consumers has not been fair and reasonable, but that it can intervene 
in cases relevant to the Act
When deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, the 
ombudsman takes into account the relevant law, regulators' rules and guidance, industry 
codes of practice and what they consider to be good industry practice. Where it is relevant to 
the circumstances of a complaint, the Equality Act will be considered when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable."
"This is not the same as making a formal judgment on whether or not a business has 
breached the Equality Act in the way that a court would. In accordance with the legislation 
and rules, the ombudsman would be making a decision on what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of a complaint. It is not for the ombudsman to make a formal finding that 
the Act is engaged or has been breached - findings on matters of law are reserved for the 
courts,"
So as Ive explained it is not for me to make a definitive decision on whether the Equality Act 
has been breached. But I have considered what the Act says and whether the treatment of 
Mr U has been unfair  but for all the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I 
dont think TPWM was unfair or unreasonable. And I set out the reasons under the Equality 
Act as to why generally age discrimination is an exception when it comes to Financial 
Services.Also as Ive explained, I dont think there was any financial loss caused in any event. Mr U 
continues to believe he has suffered a financial loss  and hes said:
as the transfer value of the pension is fixed then any delay in time is a loss of investment 
opportunity and therefore clearly leads to a material loss. Plus as I was self employed at the 
time a loss of earnings as dealing with this takes time away from work. 
But TPWM communicated its decision not to take him on as a client within three days. And 
at that point Mr U still had plenty of time before the guaranteed transfer value expired  and 
he could have approached other parties to act as his adviser. So even if I was to say TPWM 
did something wrong  which for the record I dont think it did  it didnt cause Mr U a 
financial loss.
In conclusion, I think TPWM were entitled to make decisions about what business they 
chose to conduct  and they communicated this fairly and quickly to Mr Us adviser. So I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Us complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman