DRN-2726804
The complaint
Mr P complains that in August 2020 he experienced problems when trying to invest and 
withdraw money from his investments held with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
He wants NatWest to pay him increased compensation to reflect the time and stress its 
mistakes caused, and the risk of being unable to withdraw money.
 
What happened
Mr P encountered the following problems:
A £20,000 withdrawal from his ISA was duplicated.
There was a discrepancy between the amount he invested in two funds in his ISA  he 
gave instructions online to invest £9,500 and £10,495 but, when he received 
confirmation of the transactions only £9,417.24 and £10,420.57 had been invested.
He couldnt withdraw money from his general investment account (GIA).
NatWest apologised, saying that thered been several technical issues with its customer 
portal. It reassured Mr P that he hadnt suffered any financial loss because of these issues 
and paid Mr P £200 compensation to reflect the time and inconvenience its mistakes had 
caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
NatWest had fairly compensated Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that NatWest failed to provide its service at an 
acceptable level. He said our investigator seems to have accepted everything NatWest has 
said but dismissed all his complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered each of Mr Ps complaint points:
Duplication of £20,000 withdrawal from ISA
Mr P phoned NatWest as soon as he realised his withdrawal had been duplicated. This was 
due to a system error. NatWest was able to cancel the duplicate withdrawal, without any 
delay. Im satisfied this error did not cause Mr P a financial loss.
Discrepancy between the amount Mr P instructed to be invested and the amount actually 
invested.
Mr P gave instructions to invest £9,500 and £10,495. His valuation showed smaller sums 
had been invested. NatWest provided a somewhat complicated explanation as to why the 
figures differed. I can understand why Mr P was concerned. But, having considered 
everything that NatWest has said and provided, I find the full sums of £9,500 and £10,495 
were invested and that no fees or charges were deducted.
Unable to withdraw money from GIA
Mr P was unable to give online instructions to withdraw money from his GIA. Hed tried to do 
this on a Saturday and there was no support available at the weekend, so he phoned 
NatWest on the Monday. That same day, he was able to submit the withdrawal instruction 
and he received the same price he would have done if his instructions had been accepted on 
the Saturday. NatWest cant explain why Mr P couldnt submit his instruction on the 
Saturday.
Im satisfied that Mr P did not suffer a financial loss due to not being able to submit the 
withdrawal instruction on the Saturday.
Has NatWest put things right?
When a business makes mistakes, we expect it to put things right by putting the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in if the mistakes hadnt been made. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont find that Mr P has suffered a financial loss due to NatWests 
system problems. Mr P says he could have suffered substantial losses if the market had 
moved against him when he was unable to make a withdrawal. But fortunately, this worry 
didnt materialise. I cant award compensation for something that might have happened. In 
Mr Ps case he was able to make the withdrawal on the following business day, obtaining the 
same price that he would have done if the error hadnt occurred.
But the errors did cause some worry for Mr P and he had to take time to contact NatWest to 
try to put things right. I agree he should have reasonably expected to be able to do 
everything he wanted to through the banks online platform, rather than having to phone the 
bank. Its fair that he should be compensated for this trouble and upset. But, after careful 
consideration, I consider the £200 already paid by NatWest to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here and I dont require the bank to pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman