DRN-4034107
The complaint
Ms P complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) and the actions they took when 
servicing her boiler, which she feels led to her boiler being condemned unfairly.
What happened
Ms P held an insurance policy underwritten by BGI which provided Ms P with an annual 
service for her boiler, amongst other benefits. In September 2022, a BGI engineer attended 
Ms Ps property to complete this service. But when BGI attended, they found a leak coming 
from the bottom of Ms Ps boiler. And when they attempted to repair this leak, they 
discovered substantial rust within the boiler itself. BGIs engineer completed an integrity test 
on this rust, and the boiler failed this test. So, for safety, BGIs engineer capped the boiler 
and condemned it, explaining Ms P would require a new boiler altogether.
Ms P purchased a new boiler through BGI directly. But she was unhappy with the way this 
boiler was sold, as she didnt think it was fit for purpose. So, Ms P raised a complaint.
Ms P was unhappy with the sales process, and the suitability of the new boiler for home. And 
Ms P explained her belief that BGI had failed to service her boiler correctly in the most 
recent visit, and in the years directly before, and she felt this failure had led to the boiler 
being condemned. So, she felt BGI shouldve replaced her boiler at no cost to her. And she 
thought BGI should provide her with a new boiler more suitable at her property, while 
refunding her the amount she paid them for the replacement boiler she was unhappy with.
BGI responded to the complaint in two parts, addressing the sale of the new boiler and the 
service to the previous boiler separately. Regarding the servicing of Ms Ps original boiler, 
BGI thought their engineer had acted fairly when completing the integrity test and then 
condemning the boiler. And they didnt think there was any evidence to show the previous 
services to the boiler werent completed correctly, or that a leak was present that created 
the rust that led to the boiler being condemned. BGI also explained the damage to Ms Ps 
worktop was consequential and so, not covered under the terms of the policy she held. So, 
BGI didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms P remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they were 
unable to consider the suitability of the new boiler, or the way it was sold, as it was 
purchased outside of the insurance policy Ms P held and so, didnt fall within our services 
jurisdiction. But they had considered the actions of BGI and their engineer when completing 
the annual service under the insurance policy. And having done so, they didnt think they 
were able to say BGI had acted unfairly, or in a way which had caused the rust that caused 
Ms Ps boiler to be condemned. So, they didnt think BGI needed to do anything more.
Ms P didnt agree. She felt the engineer had forcefully put a screwdriver through her boiler 
and that if he hadnt, and instead fitted the new part, the boiler would still work. She also 
explained that rust had been present in the boiler for years previously and so, if BGI felt the 
rust made the boiler unsafe, then she felt BGI had left her using an unsafe boiler for a 
substantial amount of time. Ms P also explained the integrity test was only completed after 
new parts had been ordered, and she didnt understand why the engineer wouldve done this 
if the rust meant the boiler was unsafe. So, she felt this supported her opinion that the 
engineer damaged her boiler unfairly, and this was why the boiler ended up being 
condemned. As Ms P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Ms P has raised concerns over the sale 
of her new boiler, its suitability, and the service BGI have provided to her surrounding this. 
But as this new boiler was purchased from BGI on a chargeable basis, separate to the 
insurance policy Ms P held with BGI, these concerns arent within our services jurisdiction to 
consider. And so, I havent thought about these any further.
Instead, Ive focused on the complaint issues that revolve around the insurance policy Ms P 
held. In this case, the service BGI provided Ms P when they serviced her original boiler and 
specifically the actions they took around the time they decided to condemn it.
And I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Ms P. I appreciate that, at the 
time BGI attended Ms Ps property to service her original boiler, it was working and providing 
heat and hot water to her home. So, I recognise the shock Ms P wouldve felt when she was 
told the boiler had been condemned and why Ms P felt a sense of urgency to ensure a new 
boiler was purchased. I can also understand why Ms P would feel as though BGI were to 
blame for the condemning of the boiler, as the integrity test BGI completed created damage 
that she feels would not have been caused if the test hadnt been conducted at all.
But for me to say BGI should cover the costs Ms P incurred replacing the boiler, or to do 
something else such as compensate her for the upset shes been caused, I first need to be 
satisfied BGI have done something wrong. So, in this situation, Id need to be satisfied that 
BGIs engineer made a mistake when condemning the boiler, including the tests he did to 
reach this conclusion. Or, Id need to be satisfied that BGI could, and should, have identified 
a leak that, if prevented, wouldve prevented the condemning of her boiler. And I dont think I 
can decide that here.
Ive first looked at the service history of Ms Ps boiler, to understand whether there was an 
ongoing issue within the boiler that BGI shouldve identified. And, that identifying this 
wouldve resulted in the boiler not being replaced. And Ive considered this history against 
the age of Ms Ps boiler, which I recognise was of a significant age.
I can see that in the previous two services, conducted in 2019 and 2021, the boiler passed 
the annual service. And I cant see in the notes of this that any form of leak, or corrosion 
damage, was noted that would lead to the boiler being condemned. I note a leak was found 
in the service conducted in September 2022, but I recognise BGIs engineer, and their in-
house engineering department, explained this leak was from a part underneath the boiler 
and not within it. And so, they didnt think this would lead to rust inside the boiler itself. I think 
this testimony is both logical and plausible and as I have no evidence to suggest that this 
view is incorrect, I think it is most likely correct based on the balance of probabilities.I recognise Ms P has said there was a leak present within the boiler itself for several years. 
But I cant see that this was ever noted by BGI, or that it was reported by Ms P. And Ive 
seen BGIs comments regarding this, explaining that if a leak had been present for this 
period of time, it wouldve become obvious outside the confines of the boiler itself. I note BGI 
have also explained that rust can be created inside a boiler due to heat and age, as well as 
the presence of a leak. So, as Ive no evidence to show a leak was present in the boiler, and 
I note the boiler is of a significant age, I dont think Im able to fairly say that there was an 
issue present in the boiler that BGI could, and shouldve, identified sooner.
I also note that there was a period of 14 months between Ms Ps boiler service in 2021 and 
2022. And I think this is a significant amount of time where the condition of Ms Ps boiler 
couldve changed and/or deteriorated. As the service in 2021 made no reference to a leak, 
or that the rust was of such an extent that the boiler needed to be condemned, I dont think 
Im able to say for certain that the rust found in 2022 was present at a similar level to what 
was found in 2021. And because of this, I dont think I can say BGI shouldve condemned 
the boiler, or taken steps to prevent any damage, sooner and so, I cant say theyve done 
anything wrong here.
Ive then thought about the actions BGI took during the service in September 2022. I dont 
dispute Ms Ps testimony that initially, BGIs engineer intended to replace the leaking part at 
the bottom of the boiler. And so, I can understand why shed be left confused when the 
engineer decided against fitting this part and instead condemned the boiler.
But I dont think this means BGI did something wrong here. This is because, even if a new 
part was fitted, Id expect BGI to ensure the boiler was safe and fit for purpose before 
approving the annual service. So, whether these checks were done before fitting the part, or 
after, I would still expect this work to be undertaken. And BGI have confirmed due to the rust 
found within the boiler, they conducted an integrity test which consisted of pressure being 
placed on the areas of rust itself to see if the structure of the boiler had been compromised. 
In this case, this pressure resulted in a hole being made in the boiler. I recognise why Ms P 
sees this as purposeful damage being caused to her boiler, but I dont think I can say thats 
the case. I think BGI and its engineer were taking relevant steps to ensure the boiler was 
safe acting in Ms Ps best interests and that by doing this test, they safeguarded Ms P and 
her property.
Again, I recognise why Ms P would query why this test wasnt done before. But due to the 
length of time since the previous service, Im unable to say for certain that the rust was 
present to such an extent that this test was required previously. So, for all the reasons 
above, I dont think Im able to say BGI and its engineer acted unfairly in September 2022 
when they tested Ms Ps boiler and ultimately, decided to condemn it. 
I also note Ms P questioned why BGI were refusing to repair the damage caused to her 
worktop by the leak that was found during the annual service. But I can see with the terms 
and conditions of the policy Ms P held that BGI are not responsible for any loss of or 
damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance 
or system breaking or failing unless we caused it, for example damage by caused by water 
leaks.
As Ive already stated above, I dont think BGI did anything wrong at the attendance in 2022, 
or in their previous service visits. So, I think the leak found under the boiler that had been 
dripping onto the worktop was due to a fault with the boiler, rather than the fault of BGI. And 
so, I think the term Ive quoted above makes it reasonably clear BGI wouldnt cover this 
damage under the terms of the policy. So, I wouldnt expect BGI to complete this repair, or 
cover the costs of it.So, for all the reasons Ive listed above, I dont think I can say BGI have done anything 
wrong on this occasion. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms P was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt address 
her concerns regarding her new boiler, or the costs she incurred purchasing this 
replacement. But I could only consider this financial impact, and any upset related to this, if I 
think BGI have done something wrong regarding the actions theyve taken under the 
insurance policy. And I cant say they have here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman