DRN-3481910
The complaint
Ms G complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent her money on a 
high cost loan which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Ms G with a loan for £5,000 on 27 April 2016, repayable at the rate of 
£198 (rounded up) over 48 months. She complained that at the time of applying for the loan 
her outgoings exceeded her income so she couldnt afford to take on the loan payments. 
She already had a poor credit record with loans and a bank debt in default. She had difficulty 
finding the payments for the loan each month and took out a loan with another company to 
pay it off in June 2018.
AvantCredit said it reviewed her application and that it independently verified Ms Gs income 
and carried out a credit search. It also considered two months bank statements from Ms G. 
Following its creditworthiness and affordability assessment it concluded that the amount 
offered was affordable and sustainable based on her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator said that Ms G had a low disposable income and high credit commitments 
so didnt think the loan was affordable to her.
AvantCredit disagreed, pointing out that the loan was for consolidation of existing loans. It 
calculated that Ms G would be able to reduce her credit commitments to just the cost of the 
loan and a monthly payment of £2 towards the bank debt (based on her average payments 
towards that debt in the previous years). It said that this would amount to 10% of her income. 
It also said that she would be left with a disposable income of over £393 a month. It believes 
that Ms G included her credit commitments in her declared monthly outgoings, so this figure 
was probably higher. 
It also pointed out that Ms G kept up the loan payments for two years before a life event 
changed her circumstances and no checks could have predicted that situation. She was 
given the breathing space to arrange a consolidation loan from another supplier to clear this 
and other debts.
The matter has been passes to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms G 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms G would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Gs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Considering Ms Gs income, the loan required a considerable commitment from her. So 
AvantCredit should have carried out a thorough assessment of Ms Gs financial 
circumstances at the time of the application.
I havent seen the full credit report on Ms G from the time that the loan was issued to Ms G, 
although I have seen AvantCredits list of her credit commitments and bank statements for 
February and March 2016. As AvantCredit has verified Ms Gs income from her application, I 
think it reasonable to accept that figure, since it was the amount on which AvantCredit based 
its assessment of affordability. That figure was £1,844. 
However I do think AvantCredit underestimated Ms Gs credit commitments. It would have 
seen the two bank statements before issuing the loan. The mail order (£40), two loans (£15 
and £198), a minimum (3%) payment on her credit card (£28) and £10 towards a current 
account debt, add up to £291. However the defaulted accounts cant be ignored, and I 
observe from her bank statements that she was paying a £20 monthly payment to a debt 
collection/bailiff service. She was also paying £24 a month overdraft usage fee. The statements also show a further loan with a monthly payment of £200. So a more realistic 
figure for her credit commitments was £535. This amounted to about 29% of her monthly 
income. This was high but if her loans were consolidated it might have been affordable 
depending on her disposable income.
Ms G said her general outgoings, not including credit commitments, were around £1,350 a 
month and looking at the bank statements I think this was a realistic figure. But prior to the 
loan this would have left her with a negative disposable income. AvantCredit said that Mrs G 
had has not specified what debts that will consolidate, but as they have confirmed this is the 
reason for the loan, we make a logical assumption of how the loan will be used based on the 
credit file information. 
I do think that if AvantCredit had expected the loan to be used for debt consolidation, it could 
have ensured those debts were paid off directly before releasing the loan monies to Ms G. 
But even assuming she did pay off the four debts specified by AvantCredit, this would have 
released £281 a month. But Ms G would still have had to pay the new loan instalment of 
£198, leaving a disposable income of about £42. That means in my view that the loan was 
unlikely to be affordable. So l dont think that AvantCredit made a fair lending decision
Putting things right
Ms G has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all 
interest and charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms G as payments towards the capital amount of £5,000.
If Ms G has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 
8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman