DRN-2441452
The complaint
Mrs E complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their decision to stop a cheque without 
providing notification and reasoning as to why.
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs E wrote a cheque to her solicitor, making a payment relating to a 
property transaction. 
On 4 September, HSBC called Mrs E. But she was unavailable at the time, and her husband 
took the call. HSBC didnt provide reasoning for their call to Mrs Es husband, so she called 
them back. But HSBC had no record of a call being made, so were unable to provide her 
with further information.
Mrs Es solicitors then contacted Mrs E to explain the cheque had been stopped, with HSBC 
giving the reason Suspected Fraudulent/Counterfeit Cheque. Mrs E was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs E was unhappy that HSBC didnt explain to her that the cheque has been flagged as 
fraudulent when she called them back. She was also unhappy that HSBC didnt contact her 
by another means to explain this. She explained this had left her upset and embarrassed, 
especially as she was using a new solicitor. She explained it also meant shed had to write a 
new cheque immediately to ensure she made payment, and this couldve incurred her further 
charges. So, she wanted to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience the situation 
had caused.
HSBC responded and upheld her complaint. They agreed theyd made an error when failing 
to note the system about why they initially tried to call her. They thought if theyd done so, 
they couldve spoke to Mrs E about the cheque when she called them back. To recognise 
this, they paid £30 into Mrs Es account. Mrs E didnt think this was enough and after 
reviewing their response, HSBC offered Mrs E another £50. But she didnt accept this offer, 
so this wasnt paid. As Mrs E remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised HSBCs error 
when not recording a note of the call made to Mrs E. And she agreed if HSBC had, they 
wouldve been able to discuss this with Mrs E when she called them back. And she 
recognised the inconvenience this wouldve caused Mrs E when she needed to arrange a 
new cheque to pay her solicitor. But she thought the total £80 HSBC offered was a fair one 
to recognise this, considering Mrs E didnt incur any financial losses due to HSBCs mistake. 
She also explained we were unable to consider the way HSBC handled Mrs Es complaint or 
the processes HSBC follow when processing cheques and categorising them. So, she didnt 
think HSBC needed to do anything more.
Mrs E didnt agree. She thought HSBC shouldve contacted her by another means after 
failing to speak to her on the phone. And she felt HSBCs failure to record their initial call to 
her was a serious omission and one that required a higher compensatory amount that what 
had been offered. She also didnt agree with the terminology HSBC used when stopping 
cheques as she felt they suggested criminal activity which she felt was embarrassing. As 
Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs E. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting to find out through her solicitor that the cheque had been stopped. 
And I can understand why this wouldve created embarrassment for Mrs E, considering she 
was working with a new solicitor at the time. In order to rectify the situation, Mrs E had to 
write a new cheque at short notice to ensure her payment was made and no financial losses 
were incurred to her and the solicitor. And I can appreciate the stress this wouldve caused. 
But Im aware HSBC have offered a total of £80 to recognise this inconvenience and upset. 
So, Ive had to consider whether I think this offer is a reasonable one. And in this situation, I 
think it is.
First, I want to explain what I can and cant consider. Mrs E has commented on her 
unhappiness with several HSBCs processes. But Im unable to comment on a business 
process HSBC use. Im aware Mrs E also feels the terminology used to explain why the 
cheque was stopped was unreasonable, as she think it suggests there has been criminal 
activity. But Im unable to say the terminology HSBC used was unfair nor am I able to ask 
them to change it. But Ive seen the terminology and it falls in line with similar terminology 
used within the industry.
Also, Im unable to comment on HSBCs process to identify cheques they feel are 
suspicious. HSBC have a duty to ensure their customers accounts are protected from 
potentially fraudulent activity and I think this is what they did in this situation. So, I cant say 
they did anything wrong when flagging the cheque Mrs E raised. But I can consider the 
actions HSBC took after identifying the cheque as potential fraudulent.
And its not in dispute that HSBC acted unfairly. Theyve recognised they failed to record the 
first call made to Mrs E. And theyve accepted that if they did so, its likely Mrs E wouldve 
been informed about the stopped cheque when she called them back. So, Im satisfied 
HSBC made an error that should be recognised. So, Ive considered the impact this had on 
Mrs E, and what a fair offer of compensation would be.
Mrs E has explained her belief that HSBC shouldve attempted to contact her through other 
mediums, such as text, when they were unable to contact her by phone. And I understand 
why Mrs E would suggest this. But in the terms and conditions of the account Mrs E holds 
with HSBC, it explains that if there is a problem with a cheque or other payment, well try to 
tell you as soon as possible. By calling Mrs E, I think HSBC did this. There is nothing to say 
HSBC had a responsibility to use another form of communication or that they failed to 
adhere to the terms of the account by not doing so. So, I cant say that HSBC did anything 
wrong by not doing this.
But I can appreciate this left Mrs E with no way of knowing what their call referred to, or that 
the cheque had been stopped. And when Mrs E did call them back, they didnt provide her with this information. So, I think when she was made aware by her solicitor that it had been 
stopped and returned, it wouldve been upsetting and embarrassing for Mrs E.
I also think it wouldve created some level of distress as Mrs E had to write another cheque 
at short notice to ensure the payment was made. And at this time, she had no way of 
knowing whether the delay in payment would incur charges to her or her solicitor. 
Fortunately, it didnt in this situation. So, I cant compensate Mrs E for potential financial 
losses as there were none. But I do think she should be compensated for the emotional 
impact this had.
I also think it wouldve been frustrating for Mrs E to realise she hadnt been given the correct 
information when she called HSBC back. I can appreciate Mrs E took time out of her day to 
do so and I think the inconvenience of this should be considered.
Im aware HSBC have offered Mrs E a total of £80 compensation to recognise the upset 
shes been caused. And I think this in line with the amount I wouldve recommended in these 
circumstances had it not already been offered. It takes into account the emotional impact 
Mrs E has suffered while also taking into consideration HSBCs efforts to protect Mrs Es 
account from fraudulent activity, and the fact there were no financial losses or charges 
incurred. So, I dont think HSBC need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman