DRN-1622331
Complaint
Mrs D, who is represented by a third party, complained that MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-
sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) in January 2002. This was after shed applied 
for a credit card in November 2001. 
Background
I can see that MBNA has already paid Mrs D some money for the commission it received 
from selling her the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail and didnt 
think she  had been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Mrs D disagreed and still thought she had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. She said 
she didnt need the card and wasnt given a choice about taking it. So she asked that an 
ombudsman make a final decision about her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Im not going to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
These events took place some considerable time ago. Mrs D says she cant remember how 
she bought the PPI. But MBNA has told us it sold Mrs D her PPI over the phone when she 
called in to activate her card. Ive noticed that this happened sometime after shed taken out 
the credit card. 
From what I know about PPI sales made by MBNA at this time, its unlikely that this was an 
advised sale. So MBNA only had to make sure the information it provided was clear, fair 
and not misleading so Mrs D could make an informed choice about whether or not she 
should buy the policy. Given that shed already received her card, she only needed to make 
a decision about whether or not she wanted to buy the policy to go with it.
I am also aware that MBNA representatives at the time were required to tell customers that 
the sale of PPI was optional and to obtain their agreement that they wanted the policy. So I 
think its likely that Mrs D was given a choice about whether or not to buy PPI cover to with 
her card. 
I dont necessarily think MBNA set out all the information about the PPI policy as thoroughly 
as it should have done. But overall, I dont think this caused Mrs D to act any differently. I 
think she would still have bought the policy.
So whilst I think MBNA could have explained some of the other terms and conditions more 
thoroughly, I think the fact that Mrs D decided to take the PPI shows she wanted some 
protection. I say this specifically after carefully considering her financial situation. She was 
not entitled to any benefits from her employer. Ive seen that Mrs D told us about some premium bonds she had but hasnt been able to provide us with any evidence or information 
about them. In any event, the PPI would have avoided the need for her to use all or part of 
these, or to have to dig into any other savings she may have had. So Im afraid this doesnt 
change my view.
Overall, looking specifically at Mrs Ds employment situation and the benefits she had from 
this cover  being up to 12 months if she was unable to work or lost her job - I think she had 
a use for a policy like this. In the event of a claim it paid 3% of the outstanding balance on 
the card. Although this was a fairly moderate benefit, I think it would have provided some 
protection in the event of something unexpected happening. In Mrs Ds particular situation  
and given the specifics of this case  I think the cover would have been of some use.
So I dont think Mrs D lost out even though MBNA couldve described things better. The 
evidence shows Mrs D wanted the policy, knew the basic aspects of its cost and that it was 
useful to her in her situation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct MBNA Limited to pay any compensation.
But it does have to pay back to Mrs D the commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, which from what Ive seen its already done. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman