DRN-3066651
The complaint
Mr A complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds refusal to accept a claim for treatment 
under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted BUPA to see if he could claim for laser treatment on his eyes. He explained 
this was needed because of his existing condition of ocular hypertension. 
BUPA turned down the claim. It said ocular hypertension was a chronic condition, and 
therefore any treatment would be excluded under the policy. It also said that it thought the 
laser treatment was preventative, which was also excluded. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought 
a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BUPAs claims 
decision had been reasonable. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes treatment for chronic conditions. Our investigator included the full policy 
definition of chronic conditions in her view, so I wont repeat that here. Though it seems that 
Mr A accepts that his condition of ocular hypertension falls under the chronic condition 
definition, and for completeness I agree. I say that because the condition appears to require 
ongoing or long-term monitoring, and I understand theres no cure.  
Mr A says that the pressure in his eyes rose and his consultant wanted him to have laser 
treatment. He explains this was to reduce the pressure and prevent glaucoma from 
developing. Mr A thinks his claim falls under the following exception to the chronic condition 
clause:
Exception 1: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for treatment 
of acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only pay if the treatment 
is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being restored fully to your previous 
state of health, without you having to receive prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for 
treatment following a heart attack arising out of chronic heart disease.
Based on the information Mr A and BUPA have provided, my understanding is that ocular 
hypertension is where the eye pressure is consistently above a certain range, and theres no 
evidence of optic nerve damage, visual field defect, or other reasons to explain the high 
pressure. 
It therefore seems to me that raised pressure in the eye is merely a description of Mr As 
condition. He hasnt provided any medical evidence to show that he was experiencing an 
acute symptom of his condition that had flared up.
Though in any event, I think its apparent from Mr As explanation that the laser treatment is 
required in order to prevent glaucoma from developing. 
The policy excludes preventative treatment, procedures or medical services. Therefore, even 
if Mr A were to provide evidence to show that his raised eye pressure fell under the above 
exception to the chronic condition clause, Im satisfied that his claim would fall under the 
preventative treatment exclusion. 
Consequently, I think it was reasonable for BUPA to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman